 gyaxin, gyaxin, gyaxin, gyaxin, gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gyaxin gy how I had been tuning into the podcast since like 2017. I think it was like before the, um, the podcast was even called the, the revive stronger podcast. Um, and so it's a, it's a huge full circle moment, uh, to be here. So yeah, that's awesome, man. I was just going to say, I think it was called like the macros bodybuilding and powerlifting podcast. So shout out to any of the OG listeners who remember that one, because I quickly moved away from powerlifting and then it was just like, Hey, it's just the revive stronger one. But yeah, I appreciate it. It was great to kind of see you in Boston as well. About time. Yeah, man. Um, that was 2024. So that was like right before I had, uh, had gotten the card. Um, so yeah, that, that was a long time coming, man. And it was, I can't even describe what that felt like. Um, and you're probably the best person to have this conversation with and that man, it just, when it feels like you have just poured your soul into something and given it every single thing that you have, all of your resources and not just the time commitment, but everything down to like the financial side of things, the sacrifices that are, are made in, and it doesn't happen right away. And then it's, it's like at first it's, it's devastating. Right. And then you go back and you do it again and it's like, you're closer, but it doesn't quite happen yet. But you, you learn from your mistakes and you, you persevere. And then when it finally happens, it's like, dude, I can't even get close to explaining what that, that moment felt like. They had us down to the top two and I thought for sure they were going to call my number for second. And they called the other guy's number and man, I just, all the emotions hit at once. And it was really hard to, to contain myself. That was definitely a day I'll never forget. Was that the best kind of win you've like, is that the most memorable best win you've had to date? Do you think? By far. Yeah. I, I won my class in my debut season in 2019. Um, but, and that was cool for sure, but that doesn't even compare. It's not even close to the, the victory last year. Yeah. I think it's something about not like you said, and I've been competing to this since 2014 and I didn't get my first win until 2021. So I've done so many shows and kind of placed in the top five and the top three and, and done all right. But I've been at the back. I know what that feels like to be put to the back and you're looking at the kind of top three, top five, and just standing there. But I think going through that experience sets you up quite well for the pro ranks because now everyone as a pro, like they're just people who are just winning shows, right? They turn up to any amateur show and they should be kind of winning. So suddenly you are, and I talk about it like playing on hard mode and it's like, Oh, this is a new level of competition. Uh, have you, have you had a pro debut yet? I don't believe you've, have you done a pro show just yet or no, you know, you did, you did, and you did well, you're competitive. Yeah. So, so that was, that was the only goal there was just to fit in usually, um, for the listeners, not super familiar with the competitive scene. Usually it's really obvious when somebody wins their card a little too early. Um, just because the, the differences between, uh, an amateur lineup, like even a good amateur lineup and a pro lineup is often drastic, right? So someone who might win their card early, it's usually, you know, you're sticking out like a sore thumb and not a good way. Right. So the objective there was, okay, just don't place last, like at least look like you belong. Um, and, and that was exactly, I think what happened. I was about middle of the road. I placed fourth and, uh, that was definitely the happiest I had ever been with a fourth place finish. Um, again, it was just look like you belong and make subtle improvements. I was about a hundred percent for the first show. Um, and it, we were able to slightly reverse into that, that second show. Um, but the, the playing field, it was completely different. I was kind of like in the mix and the symmetry round. And then when we got to muscularity, it was like, they called my number and they called somebody else's number. And I was like, right to the end. I'm like, yep, here we are. We're, we're in the pro ranks now. Um, but then when pre-judging finished and they called the numbers for placings, um, there were a handful of guys called before me. And, and I was just, I was just so excited when I didn't hear my name called first. And I was like, okay. Yeah. And yeah, I was, again, that was the happiest I'd ever been with the fourth place finish. Yeah, man, I bet. I, I didn't know what to expect going into the pro ranks. And I definitely got like my ass beat down. I was like, yeah, just kind of last place. But I, I knew it. You compete enough times, you know, if you're on the outside, you're looking at the judges, you're being really present and they're just not really looking at you much because it's like, well, they just decided you're probably last or not in the mix of things. They need to spend their time on, on the people that are really fighting for those top spots. And so when I, I know I, when I got called, I was just like, yeah. But I, so I can imagine it being nice where you're like just going in back to like, not having expectations and then doing better than you expected. Actually, that's like the, it's just as a side, a tangent, sorry, I shouldn't say side tangent. That's a bad habit of mine. It's just a tangent. You don't have to say side, uh, and like having high expectations and then it not meeting that or only meeting that you don't quite get as much joy or happiness from that. So it's always good to go in with low expectations as it were. And that's certainly where I'm at now competing as a pro. Something I wanted to bring up was a, an amazing quote by you. And I'd love to hear kind of you talk deeper on that was, uh, in 2021, you kind of quoted, I want to turn pro and you cross that out. You said, I will do the things professional to do. Yeah, man. Uh, I'm glad you brought that up. It's, um, it's definitely a favorite of mine, uh, because I think the perspective that it's conveying, it does a great job at shifting things from focusing on an outcome to focusing more so on process oriented steps and actions that you need to take in order to, to reach that goal. Um, I, I think that's a much more appropriate way of, of looking at things with this particular goal. Uh, just because again, that is, it's so heavily dependent on an outcome that it's almost, I don't want to say completely out of our control, but there's a lot out of our control. Right. And there's nothing inherently wrong with having outcome-based goals. It's like, we want that to happen eventually. Right. But understanding that success and failure need to be within your control for it to be a good goal from a practical standpoint, because in reality, you can do all of the things that are required of you and miss the mark, miss that, that goal. You could do all the things that professionals do and turn up and, you know, you never know who's going to turn up on show day. Right. You could run into an Oscar or a Brian, right. Uh, who, you know, who just kind of haven't competed for a while and they just wanted to, I want to do worlds and they're stepping in and the amateur ranks just to, you know, turn pro and then qualify. Right. And it's like, well, that was the show I was planning on doing. Right. And then that's the competition you run into a world champion. Right. So rather than focusing on that outcome, you're focusing on what's required of you. And if you do that long enough, eventually the outcome will, happen. I think it's important to mention too, how the opposite scenario could also happen. And I think that's just as bad and that you could miss the mark. You could have executed better, say, you know, the prep could have been better for whatever reason. And you know, you're not bringing 100%. And just for, you know, turnout related reasons, maybe they have the numbers to give out a card, but for, you know, whatever reason, the talent just wasn't great that weekend. You just happen to be the best that day and you get a card. Maybe it's a little bit too early, but you still have it. Right. And it's like, are you ready for the pro ranks at that point? Maybe, maybe not. But, you know, so you can see how either outcome, if you're not focusing on the fundamentals that are required to develop that outcome, it could put you in a bad situation. Right. And I certainly think that that would have been the case for me. Should I have actually won in 2021? That was my first like real attempt at the card. It wasn't entirely delusional by any means, but I think if I would have won then, every single season from a placing standpoint, at least would have been an absolute train wreck. So that, that season was the first time I had stepped into the open class. I had won my class in 2019 and feedback was, Hey, great physique. You know, muscles, great. Symmetry is great. Conditioning was great. You should have done open. And it was like, that's wild because I was watching the open class, you know, after my class and I was like, man, these guys are like so much bigger than me. And, uh, it was kind of intimidating at the time. And so to hear that, I was like, okay, well, I guess we got to do that then. So stepped into the open class and, you know, every, everyone wants to turn pro. And if you win the open class, you obviously are in the mix for a card at that point, especially if it's a, a super pro qualifier where multiple cards might be handed out. And that was the case for, for that show. So I go in and placed second, which was all things considered a huge success. Uh, it was a pretty competitive fall show. Um, so if you're looking at turnout, if one athlete didn't show up that day, I would have been, you know, in the mix for the card. I don't think I would have won, even if I was in the overall, the, the lowest placing card that they awarded, uh, that guy probably would have beaten me, but, uh, still it's like, you can see how two guys didn't show up that day and I would have had it right. And it would have been way, way too early. So obviously not the outcome that you want, right? Placing seconds, like, and, and knowing what I, I knew about that prep, there was just like so much that could have gone better. I remember telling you off air that I had gotten COVID two weeks out from the, the first show that I had planned on doing initially and had to pull out of that show and do the show that I eventually did like six weeks later. So I, it actually hit me really hard. I was actually hospitalized with it. And, uh, that was back when there was a, a quarantine rule where it was either 14 days or 10 days at the time. But either way, uh, there was this two week period where I couldn't train. I was still tracking, uh, my diet and, you know, making sure that that was in line, but I was just watching my physique wither away. So I'm sitting there with a silver medal thinking, uh, if that didn't happen, I would have won. But in reality, I wouldn't have, but I'm just thinking that I'm like, uh, okay, we got to do this again because so much went wrong at the back end of that prep that I would have been a lot closer. So I'm like, okay, we're going to make another attempt at this. Um, but I'm still focused on the outcome. Right. So I take the rest of 21 off, go into all of, you know, all of 22 and the early part of 23 is just spent building as much muscle as possible. And even that could have been better. You know, as a coach, you kind of know too much when you see, if you do a good job, you see what a really good prep is supposed to look like with an athlete, right? Regardless of, of talent, you know, what's supposed to be happening, happening at certain times, you know, what's not supposed to be happening. You know, what a good offseason's looking like. And I can, you know, confidently say that it was an honest assessment thinking that there were a lot of things that could have gone better and we can get into the details that later on, if you'd like. But, uh, the main thing was that the back end of that offseason, um, it had a significant influence on the starting point of that prep. And it was just, uh, man, we had way too much to pull off and not enough time to do it. And so, as you can imagine, that, that turns into a really, really hard diet really quickly. So we got our way through it and make it to stage and all things considered, it's a good look. Uh, I, uh, leaner than last time. I'm carrying more muscle than last time. I had striated glutes. Uh, it still wasn't quite at a pro standard yet. I look back at those stage pictures and I, I think that I could have pulled off another five and it would have been a substantially better look, but you know, when you're crunched for time, that last five, it just, it's no small feat getting that off and it doesn't happen quick. Um, so I go in and I placed fourth that, that year. Uh, I fell short to, to Eric in the, in the pre-judging and fantastic experience. Not what I wanted. Right. I, I knew of that quote, right. I knew of the perspective that I should have been taking with this, but I was still focused on the outcome. Like every single decision that I was making leading up to that point was, okay, is this bringing me closer to the goal? Right. It was like, it was borderline obsessive and not in a good way. Uh, so the outcome, it was, again, it was devastating. Uh, even though I had brought a better look every single successive season, my placings only got worse because the, the level of talent that I was up against each year only got better and better and better. So I, again, just knowing what I know, just after seeing enough athletes, I just kept thinking about how much could have been better. And I said, okay, we, we, we got to do this at least one more time, one more time. Let's see how close we can get this to perfect. And if I don't get it this time, then I guess we'll, we'll have to take an extended offseason and, uh, just come back in and out muscle everybody, I guess. Um, so in my mind, I knew that perspective, that, that perspective had to change and that I need to be focused on the process. So we're in October of 2023 at this point. And knowing that I wanted to go again in 2025, the question was in my mind, at least, okay, what, what would a professional do right now? And one day post-show I had my, uh, post-show meal. I really didn't want it. I didn't enjoy it. And it was, again, it kind of reflected the, the poor state of mind that, that I was taking into this. I was like, I didn't do well. I didn't succeed in this context. And so I'm like, I don't even want this meal. So like, if it meant continuing to diet, that wouldn't have been an issue. So it wasn't like binging or anything like that was like off the table. Um, so in my mind, okay, we're one day post-show. What would a professional do right now? Well, a professional would nail his reverse, right? Because that means maximizing the offseason, especially with a quick turnaround like this. It might sound extreme because we're thinking about September of 2025, right? And it's October of 2023. 2023. But, you know, when you're setting up a yearly plan or a competition plan, you kind of pick a show date and you work backwards with, with, uh, just the, the phase of dieting that you're going through. And you can kind of see how, if you look at the downstream effects of really going off the rails post-show, you can see how that's going to cut into the time that you're spent training in a surplus. Uh, and not only that, you know, that's more time spent training in a deficit to get it off because the weight's got to come off and it's not going to, unless you stop eating. So, okay, we got to nail this reverse. So we go in and the reverse went about as well as possible. It was like a textbook, like we're going to make a larger increase up front, but it's nothing crazy, right? It's just enough to, you know, stop the scale from going down and, you know, let's get things moving up slightly. And so that takes us to about early 2024. I can say that I had 10 out of 10 adherents for majority of that reverse. And so we're starting the offseason really, really, really, really lean and leaner than I had ever had before. And so that, that created this really massive runway to work with. And from early 24 to early 25 went about as well as possible. There were no setbacks. Um, and, and most importantly, you know, we made a lot of progress, but the quote unquote prep habits just became default mode and that it was, it no longer felt like it was invading on day-to-day life. And I, I felt like that's what it should be like for a professional, right? Because we're talking about the fundamentals of the sport, right? It's like everything that's going on outside of the gym, right? And, and that's why that quote stuck out to me so much because it was at the time when I saw it, things contrasted so much and it felt like life needed an overhaul, at least from, you know, a routine standpoint to make that transition from the offseason into prep. It's like no more this, no more that, you know, I got to wake up at this time, got a meal at this time. And it was like night and day, right? That's probably not how things should look if you're a professional, right? And, and this is the case, I think with every other professional sport, you go to any pro sporting event, you, you know, if you get there early enough, you can watch them warm up and they're going through their, their basic drills. And, you know, from a spectator standpoint, it just looks effortless, right? It looks like they're barely putting any effort into it. And it's just because they have the fundamentals so ingrained, right? So in my mind, there would be minimal differences between a prep and an offseason because it would just be so well integrated in your day-to-day and your routine that, you know, from the outside looking in, it just looks effortless. So to no surprise, when we transitioned into prep, it was the easiest, least invasive prep that I had ever done by a wide margin. And I, at various times, I, one, I felt like I could travel. I felt like I could live life. I felt like I could still be social and still, you know, box everything off, you know, as well as, you know, if I was just, uh, kind of going into hibernation or just, you know, not, uh, socializing with anybody, um, or, you know, functioning like a recluse. Um, and so I figured, okay, if, if this is how it's starting to, to be, it's like, it's, I don't want to say effortless, but it doesn't really feel like I'm on prep at this point. This might be confirmation that I'm getting close, like placings aside from like an athlete standpoint, um, we might be getting close. So to no surprise, uh, getting into stage condition was easier than any other prep like combined. And we even, uh, tapped into a level of condition that I wasn't exactly sure if I'd ever be able to get to, you know, that, that thin skinned look that not everybody can get to even at like comparable body fat levels, which that was super cool. It was really, really cool when I first started to see that, but it also made me reflect on, okay, I must've been a lot further away from this and my previous preps. Right. And so I think it just goes to show how much needs to be in control, like year round in order to get to that condition and get to that, that pro standard. And it's like the prep starts way before the prep starts. Right. And, and so, yeah, you know, again, I think that's how it looks from a bodybuilding standpoint and the outcome reflected that finally. And we go in and, uh, I got moved to the center, uh, in a class of 12, I believe it was. Um, and after that, I didn't move once when they made that final call for the final pose and I was still in the center. It was like, Oh man, I think, I think we did it. I think we did it. So we got the card in classic, which funny enough, it was a last minute decision to do the classic division. Uh, yeah, yeah. So they, this was the first year that the WMBF had offered a classic physique. And that was, that was always the division that I had competed in outside of the WMBF, but had always done bodybuilding because they, they didn't offer classic. So I'm like a week out and I'm registering for the show and I'm like, I guess I'll do classic as well. And it was kind of stressing me out because the pre-judging, it was back to back. So it was like classic and then right into bodybuilding. I'm like, Oh, I'm like, do I email the promoter? Tell him I don't want to do it. And now just do it, just do it. And so I got the classic card. The guy who placed second in classic got the bodybuilding card, which a hundred percent agreed with. Uh, he, he had about 20 pounds of stage weight on me, uh, like at the same height. And so, um, I, it was a matter of, okay, he fit this class better. You fit this class better. And I'm like, okay, yeah. Oh, I, I wasn't expecting to win seeing him backstage. So I will, I will take this. Um, and again, dude, when, when it finally happened, I just, I can't even describe what that felt like. It just hearing the, you know, his number called for second. And then it was like, I was the last one standing. Oh my gosh. I just, I can't believe this. Did you shed a tear? Did that happen or did you hold on? I, I started to, and I held it back. But then as soon as I got to my car, I collected all my things and then got off to the parking lot and got to my car and it just all came out. And yeah, yeah. It's very emotional. Those are the best tears. Yeah, man. Because it's like, you're thinking about those really, really hard days, those, those days where you're like, I just, I really don't want to do this. Like I might be, you know, under the weather or, you know, things are tight for whatever reason or just life stress. It was a really stressful, uh, year from a personal standpoint. So, um, just knowing that and then having that outcome finally happened was like, oh my gosh, it's like all of that just kind of hit at once. Yeah. I had very similar experience. I have so many thoughts on everything you said there. Thank you for running us through everything. And I will tie this back in. But when I came off stage, it was actually, I turned pro at the WMBF Netherlands, but I didn't know where I placed. Obviously I was center stage similar to you and we did our posing routines and it was after doing my posing routine. I came off and I sat down and I had that exact experience where everything just hit me, but all of, cause it was a very stressful year for me too. And I think that played a big part in it. And I just thought about all of those things going on and I just was crying and people were like, Hey, like, I think you did pretty well. Why are you crying? Like people thought I was upset. I was like, no, no, no, no, these are like happy tears. I'm just like, it was just so overwhelming. So then once I got the pro card or got the win, I kind of had let all that go. So it didn't quite feel, I didn't kind of get that hit of emotion, but to your point of back to that quote of kind of drawn out, drawn through, I want to turn pro and focusing, actually let's focus on what professionals do. I think about that. And the analogy I always use is you have to, if you want to get a promotion for your career, you have to be doing that job already for them to promote you more than often. And it's exactly actually, as you said, if you get promoted and you're not ready for it, similar to getting that pro card before you're ready, because you're the only person available, what have you, you're in the deep end. And now suddenly you're going to, you're not going to swim. Probably you're probably going to sink. And I definitely think that could be a real hard thing for people who earn their pro card very quickly. If they are that genetically gifted or they've been doing it decades and they decide to eventually compete and then they get it. And it's like, wow, like they are kind of in the deep end, or maybe they're not even ready necessarily for the pro ranks. Whereas I think when you do claw your way up as you did there, you kind of are then ready for the real tough battle that it will be as a pro. And are you a anime fan? Sort of. I haven't watched anything in a really long time. You know, Dragon Ball Z though, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Goku. Do you know Ultra Instinct? No, I'm not super. It's going to be lost on you, but it just made me think of this, like, Hita, he gets this Ultra Instinct form where, and there's then called Autonomous Ultra Instinct, where basically, like, he doesn't have to think, he just dodges, hits, and he just moves exactly as he should. And that's kind of what you were describing there. Once you kind of get those pro habits in place, I think there's probably a lot of things you do in your day-to-day, Josh, where someone outside would look at you and be like, man, you are like a robot, or you don't live like a normal person. Whereas you're just like, this is just how I do my day-to-day, and I don't even think about it. It just happens. You kind of get into that flow state. And that's the best place to be, because as you said, if your comp prep and your off-season are complete, like, black and white different, man, there's going to be so much friction. Whereas if you just, the difference is I eat a bit less, I maybe expend a bit more, I prioritize my posing a bit more, and that's kind of it. And yeah, eventually you get to a point where you're a bit of a zombie, you have low energy levels, and so you have to be a bit restricted in kind of what you can give to other things. That's a great place to be, and it makes the sport, it gives longevity, which ultimately, as you all know, the best natural bodybuilders are the ones who are in their late 30s, 40s. And a lot of the pros are actually of that age, because that's the people who have done it the longest, and that tends to be the people who've got the most muscle, have practiced the sport the most too, in terms of like being on stage, posing, they know how important that aspect is. But it's really cool you touched on classic versus open. And actually, it shows how the two categories are different within the WMBF2, where it's like, if either one of you just won both, but you could argue, oh, well, like, why do we need then classic, like, or what have you? But you obviously, Josh, showed, and I mean, people, if they check out your Instagram, it'll be linked in the description, they can see your great symmetry, like really nice small waist, really nice broad shoulders, cap delts, sweeping quads, like, you've got that nice X frame immediately. So I'm not surprised you do really well in the symmetry round. But then, like, muscle mass is muscle mass, right? And there's bodybuilding and open bodybuilding that plays a role. Not to say you're not well muscled, but guys with stupid muscle on their frame, right? So that's very exciting. In regards to, I think some people would be thinking, kind of nailing the reverse. I'd love to hear what your kind of objective is for someone who's finished competing. And they're of a standard. They're like, I want to do what professionals do. How should my reverse look? What are your objectives, timelines? What are you looking at? Yeah, so I think it depends on a few things. So one, how hard were you crashing towards the end of the prep, right? Like, how do you feel? In my 23 prep, I felt really good. I felt like, you know, if I could continue dieting, I would. Like, if there was another show coming up, I would have no issue dieting another, you know, 10 weeks or so, even though it was a brutal diet. So like, from a hormonal standpoint, I didn't get labs done or anything like that. But I felt like I could continue, right? So in that scenario, potentially adding a little bit less food could be a viable approach. Whereas if somebody is like, really, really, like, they emptied the tank, that's it. And, you know, like, their hormonal profiles, a bit wrecked. And you just know that if they, if we had to push another two, three weeks, it would have been bad, then, okay, we might be a little bit more aggressive with adding the food back in. I think the exact numbers, you know, it depends a lot on the individual and the going into it, what state they're in, you know, how wrecked are they training wise? Did they maintain their strength? You know, how are they doing, like, psychologically, right? Like, just how difficult was the prep? And then we can kind of base our initial increase off of that. But I think you regardless, you're probably going to need a larger increase up front, just get out of a deficit, right? There's no point in continuing in a deficit. But the amount of food that you probably need, like, on paper, from a theoretical standpoint, is probably a lot lower than you would imagine. And again, it varies considerably from person to person. I feel like a night and day difference when I'm five pounds up from my stage weight. And so my set point, it's really, really low, just naturally a bit leaner. And so, you know, in the offseason, even it becomes a stressor if I'm pushing body weight up past a certain point. And so knowing that, yeah, so like knowing that, okay, I can drag this out a little bit, and it's probably not going to wreck me. That might not be the approach that somebody else would take. It's really that saying, know thyself. It's very important in that scenario. But I think that, you know, make a larger increase upfront, get out of a deficit, see confirmation that you're out of a deficit with, you know, scale weight increases. Things are probably going to fluctuate a bunch after travel, after peak week, you know, with all those manipulations. But then at the very least, make sure the scale's not going down. And if you don't really go off the rails, you can make a large increase, and you won't see crazy spikes on the scale. And if you get that confirmation, it's almost like a green light, you can add in a little bit more food, and then add in a little bit more food at, you know, routine timestamps. And I think that approach makes a lot of sense, right? And just get to a point where you feel good. And that's probably a bit lower in body fat than many people would believe. But again, it sets you up so well for an offseason, and that you just have the largest runway to work with. And that's more time spent training in a surplus, you don't have to break things up into, you know, a significantly long fat loss phase that's going to take away from time spent gaining, right? And if you have a quick turnaround, it's like, it means even more, right? If you're not planning to compete for another five years, three, three or four or five years, it's like, doesn't matter as much. But it's like, if you're competing relatively soon, okay, we really got to keep this under control, because the downstream effects, it's like, if you're starting with more body fat, you know, it just, it's going to influence that first phase, which influences that next phase, which influences, you know, so on and so forth, and your pre prep, and, and then your prep starting point, right? Yeah, for sure. I, I totally agree with you. And I definitely think that you can, a lot of individuals could get to this place of feeling good at a lower body fat than they like thought possible, like that lower intervention point where your body starts really kicking up a fuss might be lower than you think. But unfortunately, post show, it's such a challenging time. Like you said, there's so many things that go into it, like the physiology, the psychology, then social life. And for the right person who can manage that, they, like you said, you could be five pounds above and actually feel pretty damn good. Like I'm sat here, like 10, 15 pounds above, and I've been in a like out of a deficit for over a year now since coming off stage. It's like for me, that that was totally fine. And but for some people, and I do think unfortunately, if people listen to this, like I, I get it, food is tough, social life is tough, but people get a bit greedy, I find in that period where they're so done of restricting and they want more food and they're going out for meals and it tastes really good. And it's like, I just want to desert, I just want to have a bit more. And it's like, every day you do that and you gain an extra pound, two pounds, that's months of offseason where you're now having to be restricted early. So if you can have that little bit of a foresight and continue to restrict a little bit in that, I always think about it like, hey, when you're dieting, it's like a straight and narrow drive, like it's easy. But on that transition bend to the next phase, that's turbulent. And if you navigate it really well, you can perfect that turn and you can be right on a straight and narrow again. But if you're a bit off, it can be a bit of a crash and burn. And I think it's totally fine if like you and me didn't nail our post show the first few times, it takes a while to kind of get there. But I definitely think if people have a good coach in their corner and respect that and have a like outside objective opinion who can, because if you're doing it yourself, you'll probably either be in two extreme camps, you're either restrict yourself too much and that'll lead you to crash and burn. Or you'll be like, no, yeah, I think I need more food. Like I'm looking good. I'm looking big. My weight's not going up that much. You add too much in. So it's helpful having someone in your corner or again, having the experience to have gone through all of that. With where you're at now, Josh, how's offseason going for you? How's it treating you? Where are you now considering? When did you step off stage and how much weight have you gained since then out of interest? Yeah. So last show was the first week of November. I am, depending on the day, average is about 187. I competed around like 177 after the peak. So that's, yeah, about 10 pounds up. I just respond so much better to a slower rate of gain. And I'm not restricting myself like a crazy amount. Like food got up to, I'm like 36, 3700 calories. And I got up there pretty quickly. And it was like, just metabolic rate, I guess, adapted really, really quickly. And it was like, okay, if you're going to continue pushing things up, you're going to need more food. And I'm like, I'm at a point where I see my next meal come around. I'm like, I could pass right now. And it's crazy to think because I'm like closing in on 190 pounds and like not really looking forward to food. And so, yeah, it's great though, because training is among one of the best runs that I've ever had, which is, it's wild, this deep into a training career, seeing things progress this quickly. Had made a couple modifications, larger modifications to training for the first time in a really long time. Um, the goal in my physique specifically, uh, has always been to prioritize my legs and make sure my quad sweep, uh, gets in proportion as much as possible to, uh, my lats. And it's just anatomically, that's how it's always going to be for me. It's just my bone structure. It's just always going to make my quads look smaller, even though like, if you just compare lower bodies, it's like, it's not too far off from everybody else. It's just that, you know, with an upper body, you know, my shoulders, it's like, okay, we're going to have to build some nasty quads to, to compliment this. Um, so I had gotten to a point where I knew that I needed a little bit more focus on that area, but within my, within each training session, I was like at the cap. I'm like, I can't add more to these sessions because it's just like, it's too much. The quality of work is really, really going to take a hit. And it's just, you know, unnecessary work at that point. And it's just not going to help that much. The ROI isn't great. So the way I saw it was okay. If we're capped at a per session standpoint, the next option is to increase frequency. So I had moved to, away from a modified push pull leg to an upper lower, um, where it was run, it's currently run two on one off. I might move away from it, but, uh, it results in five leg sessions every two weeks. So it's, it's a rotating split. So that's, um, some weeks it's two, some weeks it's three. So on, you know, a per month standpoint, it starts to add up. It's a lot more work than, uh, you know, the, the previous split. And so it didn't touch anything with regards to what is done in that, you know, in each session so that some weeks that adds a ton of work. Right. And with the additional rest, it's like, okay, that it's feasible. And so far, uh, it's working really, really, really well. I think I just, uh, respond slightly better to higher frequencies. It just, I had run three sessions in a row followed by a rest day for several years. And every time I tried to add a fourth, it was like, it's just not great. Uh, I would be in the gym seven days a week if I could. Um, it's so like, if I wanted to increase frequency, try to get in six days, but like knowing what I know about my, my training history, it's probably not the best move to try that yet. So that's a potential Avenue for the listeners to increase their frequency, to get a little bit more work in, if that makes sense. Hi guys, Steve here. Just wanted to take a moment of your time to remind you of our online coaching service at revive stronger. We pride ourselves on providing personalized service that will take your physique and knowledge to the next level. If you're interested, check the description and sign up. Yeah. I imagine you have the same perspective on frequency as I do, where it's like a way of divvy up the volume. Basically, if you can spread that volume over more sessions, so long as it's not like a minuscule amount, it's going to be at a higher quality because every additional set you do in a session, you get a bit of diminished return on that potential. Like you said, you don't want to start adding volume just for the sake of it and start sandbagging and the quality of work goes down and it doesn't necessarily become junk volume per se, but it starts to become a bit more junky in that sense and not as high quality. So yeah, it's your off-season training, probably goals are not too dissimilar to mine in that the kind of VL vastus lateralis, the quad sweep is a huge objective for me too. And I think actually you ran into some similar issues as I did with your knees, right? You had some nasty knee tendonitis. Yeah. So that was part of that 22-23 off-season that really set me back was I was like just blasting away at this hack squat and it was, I got a little bit too carried away with progressive overload and I wound up doing like four or five rep sets on, uh, you know, a machine and it was just grinding my knees to dust and I, I would feel it on the last rep and it was like borderline too much pain and I just kept, I'm like, okay, if I just end the set here, I can keep it in. And I was like really, really hard-headed with that. And it, uh, it, it really, it did a number of things. And so I couldn't do that for the longest time. Um, and so that was kind of discouraging and found a way, uh, around it. I think we had discussed that, uh, through DMs, uh, about some of the workarounds. Um, but yeah, um, it was good to be, uh, it was good to find solutions to that because now I'm able to do those same exercises now with much better technique. And I think it's a lot more, uh, sustainable approach. Yeah. Yeah. I, uh, I, I feel you on that and it's, I wish there was a way to like isolate, like literally the sweep. Like we don't have any good data to suggest you can, it's like leg extensions are really good at the like reg fem, but it's like, oh, that's the main isolation is using those sort of movements, like your sissy squats, uh, your kind of reverse Nordics, that sort of thing. It was, that's not what we're going for, right? It's not like we have insufficient quad, uh, sorry, thigh size. It's like actually specifically needed on the, the outside there. So that is your squat patterns and they do inevitably can inevitably put quite a bit of pressure on, on the knees there. But it's, I think it's one of the things any bodybuilder goes through, especially anyone with weaknesses, like people who probably their arms are weak, for example, but elbows start giving them jip or if they're delts or the chest is then the, the shoulders start not getting completely happy and you have to kind of find work around and the stuff that just comes easily to you. It's like those areas never get beat up and they never feel bad because the body's just happy to use it. And yeah, it's, it's exciting to kind of see you add like muscle to your physique and the frame and staying leaner and to be able to continue to level up. Obviously we reference Eric Helms as a great example of someone who's just continue to level up his physique over the competitive seasons and use all the knowledge that we have. And, uh, yeah, I'm excited to see you also do the same. Do you have an idea of when you next want to step on stage? So I think 27 would be the very earliest. Um, it depends on how the rest of the offseason goes, maybe 28, depending on a handful of things. I have some, um, some bigger life goals that, uh, I'll speak on at a later date, uh, in the works that, uh, how those, you know, the timelines with those, that's probably going to influence what I do with, uh, with the next prep. I just want to make sure I'm in a good spot and not stressed about something else. Yeah, for sure. And I mean, more time is always great. It just, you have to maintain that. Don't get complacent basically is what I always think is there's just something about competing semi-regularly that just keeps you on your toes a little bit, even though it's, it's not on paper good for like muscle growth because you extend a period of time, you're not going to be growing and you have to spend time recovering, but it just keeps you on those pro behaviors and habits and keeps that fire lit, keeps your attention on it. And actually you mentioned that kind of mentality that was making me think where there just became a point. I don't know when it was that I was like, I always had this friction between accepting like some of the things bodybuilding would make me do. And I love it. I love my nutritional control. I love spending hours in the gym. Like I love prioritizing my sleep, but I often had this friction of trying to be a bit normal and like not let, I don't know, potential social opportunities go amiss. I was like, but is that actually what I want to do Steve as an individual? And I started to realize I was like, actually those things aren't really serving me. I just feel like I'm obliged to net like do them. And I have this discussion with clients all the time. Like don't be apologetic about the things that are serving you and you want to do. Like don't be that recluse bodybuilder who's like monk mode bodybuilding and that's your life because it could get taken away from you. But if you love it and it's passionate, it's passion for you. Like you can definitely make it something and sometimes removing that friction just allows you to really sink your teeth into it. And then if it does become frictionless, something I definitely wanted to talk to you about Josh. I know we maybe got maybe a good half an hour or so to talk about this, which I think is a good chunk of time. Actually, you mentioned training and I am interested to know if you're using my reps in your training specifically because you have a preprint, I believe is a preprint at the moment, similar strength and hypertrophic adaptations in less time my reps versus traditional straight sets in resistance trained males. I'd love to hear kind of what led you to want to do that paper, what lessons you took from it, and then also just your personal experience with my reps or those sort of intensity techniques or advanced training tools or time-saving techniques. There's so many times for them, I don't know what's necessarily best. You probably know better than me. Yeah. So I thank you for bringing that up. So at the time that this is being recorded, it has been accepted. It was accepted in, it was actually accepted the Monday that I got back from my pro debut. So that was a really, really cool weekend there. So it has been officially accepted in the Journal of Strength and Conditioning. We're just waiting on the editor to put everything together and actually put it into print. So yeah, I currently, I definitely use my reps for primarily for isolations towards the back end of my training session in that because it saves so much time. I don't use it on every single exercise, but if I'm trying to get in and out in a certain amount of time, I want to be taking my time on exercises that require a little bit more rest, like something maybe like a leg press, right? And make up for that lost time, even though it's not really lost time, but make up for it towards the back end of the session. Or I typically train with a slightly higher degree of exercise variety per session. So that also helps me get in and out a little bit quicker. And just, you know, setting up the exercises and warming up for those exercises, it adds a ton of time. And so that is a really, really good practical way to cut down on things. And we know from our data that it's about equivalent to three straight sets. So yeah, that's how I implement them in my own training for sure. I think they're a really, really good use for just anybody who is struggling to find time to train. We found that the Maya reps protocol, we used the traditional protocol that was designed by Borg. We found that it was consistently about like 40 to 45% faster than the traditional control group that we're doing three straight sets to concentric failure per exercise. So yeah, it's a fantastic way to train if you are crunched for time. And I think it came about because, you know, we have rest pause training, right? And those two are often used interchangeably. And like DC training, it's known for its rest pause sets, but it's like, it's very intense. It's a very hard way to train and it's often unsustainable for many individuals. A lot of people report burning out on a program like that. The auto regulation component to the classic approach to Maya reps really makes it much more sustainable. And so, yeah, it's just, it's a great technique. Again, it's not necessarily better than doing traditional straight sets, but it's, you know, if you're looking to modify training density, looking to improve the, you know, the density of your session, the amount of stimulus per unit time, it's really, really nice way to do things. Yeah, I use it just in a similar way to you where my preference, I think, is straight sets. There's just something about just a straight set there, but especially when I'm looking to add, like I've been adding a little bit of extra adductor, abductor work, where I'm just like, there's finishing touches to like a leg day. And I'm just like, I don't have the mental capacity to just do like five straight sets or something. I'm saying five, even three, just get in there, blast through some Maya reps. What's the protocol you used? I tend to use like an activation set of like 10 to 20 reps close or to zero RAR, three to five second rest, and then do, well, I tend to like AMRAP until I hit that zero, which tends to land within three to five reps and then stopping at three reps. Is that like the approach that you tend to kind of see as the traditional approach? Sort of. So yeah, we, um, we followed an algorithm based on, uh, a ratio between activation set reps and a repetition target that's repeated on the mini sets that followed. So, um, the ratio that we used, if you got six to eight reps, you were doing mini sets of, of two, uh, regardless of your proximity to failure. Um, if you got nine to 12 reps, you were doing mini sets of three. Uh, if you got 13 to 16, mini sets of four. And so you would do your activation set. And in our study, it was, uh, using a six to 12 RM load. Most of the time they were around 10 to 12, just so that the load didn't need to be modified in the, in the traditional set condition. Um, so on average, they were doing, uh, mini sets of three. So they had a activation set, a period of incomplete rest. Obviously, you know, listeners are very familiar with this. It's not long enough to do another full set, but it's long enough to extend the set. So, uh, you know, it's anywhere from depending on the application, 20 to 40 seconds. Uh, and then you would take the same weight off again, do a mini set to that repetition target, rack, another period of incomplete rest, take off the same weight to that repetition target. And you would just repeat that until you're unable to meet that repetition target. So in practice, this is great because it auto-regulates the, the work that's done based on how you're performing that day. So if you are really, really, you know, grinding out mini set after mini set, really feeling great. Okay. Awesome. We're striking when the iron's hot, but, uh, you know, if you're not feeling great or if you're not performing well, okay, we're not digging ourselves into a huge recovery ditch that we have to climb out of now. So it, it, you know, paces the amount of work to how you're performing. Um, we technically capped things at five mini sets, uh, in case somebody actually got that far, uh, that only happened once fortunately. Um, and when we had them take that final mini set to failure, they actually didn't get that extra rep. So it was like, okay, who's there anyway? So that's good. Um, we also didn't have anyone who really struggled with it. I was, I was actually kind of concerned about that because I'm sure you've probably seen that, like some people really struggle with certain intensity techniques and some people are really good at just grinding things out. Um, we didn't really have that, which was great. Um, so that was important because we wanted to compare the failure points between conditions as much as we could. So they were on average doing anywhere from two to four ish mini sets after their activation. So, um, if you think about that and how that compares to three straight sets to failure, it's like, okay, we're probably getting a similar number of failure points. If that makes sense. Yeah. Yeah. Like a similar, if you can use the term effective reps in a sense, uh, you're kind of getting a similar number of those and that makes a ton of sense. I like the auto-regulated nature of it. And yeah, I've definitely, some people don't love certain intensity techniques, even like antagonistic supersets. Uh, I've talked about those on the podcast before, and they can say, save you a ton of time as well, but some people just do not like switching between things. And it's obviously not completely practical. There's some practical limitations also of my reps to some extent, like you said, compound lifts, it just doesn't make as much sense, uh, for those just, uh, I, I've tried on a leg press before and that was just really didn't work too well. It's like, once I'd hit a set close to failure, I was just like, my legs are just, they need more rest time to be able to actually do any sort of productive work there, but leg extension, painful, but very productive and work super well. And I can see how quick that is. Cause I think about it, that first kind of activation set, as it were, that's just a straight set, right? And then if you're doing between two to four mini sets after that, that's like each mini set is, I don't know, roughly equivalent to half, like a set in a way. That's how I tended to think about it. And it's great to see the literature is kind of showing that as well. Cause people always want to be like, how do I compare like between, uh, like a Meyer rep cluster versus a straight set. And so I think the, the research, I guess from my understanding, did it confirm what you expected to see? Yeah. So the total volume load over the course of the chronic portion, um, it was, there was about a 30% difference, uh, in, you know, that, that tonnage measurement sets times reps times load, uh, when comparing the Meyer reps protocol to the traditional set, uh, which I, you know, I expected that, um, in the acute portion, you probably saw it was split into two parts. Um, we had a, a, a chronic phase that was the main portion of the study. And then we had an acute portion that was, uh, primarily for taking measures that we wanted to do in the chronic portion, but it was just from a logistics standpoint, uh, it was very impractical. Um, so we were able to take bar velocity, um, and compare the, the differences between, um, you know, three straight sets and a Meyer reps protocol. And we set a velocity threshold. Um, it was just an arbitrary number. We picked 0.3 meters per second and said, okay, uh, this is around, you know, the, the last quarter of the set or so, um, you know, from this velocity and, and below, uh, like how many reps did each group do? Because we wanted to figure out, okay, like wait, 30%, you know, that's pretty big difference. You know, even though volume load doesn't really tell us much about stimulus magnitude, uh, it's, it's still a, you know, it's a large difference. So we wanted to figure out like, or at least show where these differences are coming from primarily. And, um, at the, you know, higher proximities to failure, uh, things were really, really similar, uh, to give exact numbers. And this is the acute portion, not that the numbers, uh, in the amount have any relevance. It's just that the comparison. So it was 102 reps below that threshold for the Mayo condition and 111 for the, the traditional. So it was, it was really, really similar. So on average, maybe the Mayo reps group, even though they did less total reps, they had a slightly higher proximity to failure on average. So maybe they had the same number of reps within a sufficient proximity to failure. Um, and so they're, you know, similar in effectiveness, uh, and that might be why, so it's kind of how we ran things. I guess it's, it's further data to confirm that those kind of slow near failure repetitions are what matter. Not so much like if people are still using volume load as an example, as like a way to be like, Oh, I'm doing more volume. It's like, yeah, actually that's not the thing you need to worry about. How many of those sets are close to failure? Cause that can lead people down a dangerous rabbit hole if they focus on volume load too much. And, uh, was I right on the acute? It was a 60% faster for my reps as well, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So it's, it's just for people who haven't got time, like it's an unbelievable hack basically to, to use my reps outside of just the time component. Have you seen any other benefits to theorize any other benefits of using something like a Meyer reps? Yeah. Um, this is purely anecdotal on my part. This has just been my personal experience. Um, it really, really helps me learn how to grind reps out on an exercise, especially on a machine. Um, you just get so much practice at those, you know, really, really high proximities to failure. Whereas, you know, on a traditional straight set, it's like, you have to go through a bunch of reps, fatigue yourself to get to that territory. Whereas here it's like, you're not resting long enough to, you know, have to go through that again. You're kind of getting right back into it and you're getting more practice at those really, really fatiguing reps. So it's like, you know, we talk about in practice the term, you know, training accuracy and how like remaining poised, remaining with good technique, really high proximities to failure. I have to think that that has a way of improving that in a way that a straight set might not be able to. Um, or maybe you're improving a little bit quicker, I should say. Maybe, you know, you still get just as good, you know, over a short time span, but maybe this gives you a slightly more practice at a skill that you're trying to get better at. So yeah, it's interesting though, because, you know, on weaker body parts, especially on those like final two, three rounds, I'll, I'll feel a level of, of activation that I don't get in a straight set. Uh, and this is especially true for like arms, uh, quads, and, and those are areas that I could, I could definitely gain in the development department. And it's like, okay, maybe that's interesting. So maybe it, it does help you with, you know, recruiting those muscles that you may not be as good at recruiting. Right. Um, I don't know, that's largely speculation on my part. It's just something that I've seen in my own training. Yeah. Yeah. I, I like the idea and I know for like, again, accessories tend to be higher reps often, but if you, you kind of stay in the pain cave, as it were, you have to, like, you haven't got time to switch off. You have to stay switched on. So like you said, it kind of trains you to be just good at staying very focused apart from the activation set, of course, like where you may be the first few reps, you're not fully engaged, but past that point, especially for just people that find themselves switching off within like repetitions, or maybe they want to use some higher repetitions. They want to use lighter loads, but they don't want to have to do straight sets of like 15 plus repetitions. I will just do your first set and then take short rest periods and do this Maya rep protocol. I can totally see in that of something that's effective. And if anything, like it comes back to just denser, more volume, that seems to lead to more growth and it forces you to ensure you are training really hard as well, where it's easy to go through the motions or think you've trained something hard. But when you're just going for those short rest periods, like you are, you know, the muscles already into effective reps immediately. So it's like you're guaranteeing that almost, which is really cool. Yeah. Yeah. It does. It does teach you how to train hard for sure. Were there any limitations that you felt were kind of particularly apparent for you guys? I know, like it was eight weeks. It was only like, uh, what the chest that was trained, some small sample that weren't elite, but just anything, uh, in addition to that sort of thing that you think's worth people noting or anything that you thought people should be aware of? Yeah, they were, uh, stronger individuals for sure. Um, we, we have a great setup, uh, where it's, UTampa is a very active campus, uh, I would say just with the weather being nice and, um, it's relatively easy to find willing participants, uh, who are relatively trained. Yeah. So it's, it's good that we got to study, you know, a relatively trained, uh, sample, um, in terms of limitations, yeah, duration, that's a huge one. It's, that's a huge one. Um, I, I was curious to see how our strength endurance data was going to compare. So that's just, uh, an AMRAP with 70% of their, their tested one RM. And I, for some reason, I thought that there's, there may be a chance that the myocondition may show a slight edge in that regard, just because again, there, there's a greater proportion of, of work being done at those really slow reps, really slow velocities. So maybe they're going to get better at grinding reps out. We didn't see that. Um, but I think that it largely depends on the person. If you're someone who, you know, could train a little bit harder, that might give you some practice. And so it's, it might be specific to the, the demographic. Um, but I think, um, you know, the exercises we did, uh, very suboptimal, right? It's, uh, all free weights, right? So I guess, uh, it, the studies vaulted. Um, it was chess training on, uh, the, the bench press, uh, the incline press and a seated cable fly. Um, I think, you know, obviously, you know, it would be cool to use those really high tech machines that, you know, we have prime equipment and, you know, Nautilus pieces, but, um, a lot of that's just, uh, what we have available in the lab. And, uh, we were, you know, it was a marathon project in that we were dealing with a lot of COVID restrictions still with like, um, you know, when we first started the project, we could only have a certain amount of people in the lab that, that included subjects as well as, um, you know, research assistants. And so we can only study a certain amount of people, uh, at a certain amount of time and, you know, turned into a multi-semester project. And then we added the acute portion because we got to see what the bar velocity would show. That would be really, really cool. Um, we want to put it in the same paper. So it's like it added another semester and, um, yeah, I think it's a side tangent, if you will. Um, but, uh, yeah, in terms of like ecological validity, I think it was very, very close to what's done in practice and that we, we didn't deliberately equate volume load. I think that's a huge limitation in, um, a lot of the studies that are done on intensity techniques where their control condition will aim to match volume load. And that really drops their proximity to failure. And it's like, you know, the studies that show that, you know, one intensity technique was favored over straight sets. It's like, that's often why, and it just, yeah. That was Antonella. You'll be aware Antonella did her case study dissertation on it, right? Uh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Hers was, uh, she was frustrated because also it was volume equated. Uh, so yeah. So this is great because it showed time efficiency in hers. I think it was 80 minutes versus 50 minutes through the MyRep. So almost half the time, but you still saw that and less volume load. So that's really cool. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was cool. Um, we also took surface EMG, you know, muscle excitation is what it's labeled in the, in the paper. Um, we obviously understand the, the limitations that come with surface EMG. So we didn't really want to make any strong inferences with that data. Um, we didn't find a significant difference with that. Um, and we also obviously quantified time. We, we used the, the EMG, um, to give us a concrete measure of, of duration. So like from contraction one to, you know, the end of the set through the rest to the end of the protocol. Um, and it was really cool because, um, the alternative was, okay, we've got to sit and like have somebody time every single subject and, you know, the human error that could come with that. Right. And this is like really, really like definitive. Yeah. And I, obviously the, you mentioned the eight weeks being a limitation, which it definitely is, but I mean, I can't think of any reason why my reps aren't something that someone is not necessarily something you have to use as a periodized tool. That's only effective for an eight week period from, well, from my understanding of what grows muscle, at least at the basic level, it seems like this is something someone could use like year round if they needed to. Yeah. Yeah. A hundred percent. Um, and, and it was cool because every chronic, uh, measurement that we took from pre to post, it kind of mirrored one another. So the, the one RM strength, you know, similar change in magnitude between groups, um, you know, the, the strength endurance data, similar change from pre to post, the muscle thickness data by ultrasound of similar magnitude and change. And so it kind of like all pointed towards, you know, a similar level of effectiveness. Yeah. And I think you mentioned this actually as a practical tool, not only could you use them as like pre-programmed within your session to save on time, get a bit more volume, but I think you mentioned actually, sometimes when you're a bit time limited, you'll change some of your straight sets to being my reps, right? So it could even be something that you ought to regulate like that, but just based off life. Yeah. Yeah. A hundred percent. Um, I do that all the time and, uh, because at the very least you get your straight set activation set and it's like, it's really not that much different. Right. And so I think that's, it's a really intelligent way of modifying that work to rest ratio to still get in that, that stimulus. So, you know, you're getting to that time point, you know, without sacrificing the work because you know, what do most people do? Oh, I don't have enough time. So I did less. Right. So yeah, I, it's why I like it. Love it. Josh, this has been great. Is there, is there anything else you're personally working on in terms of future projects or I know you said you've got a lot of life things. I don't know if you can talk about any of that, but any other research or, um, you're obviously you're an online coach. Uh, if you're kind of, I guess I should let people know that they can get coached by you, but yeah, anything going on your end you'd like to share? Yeah, we're, um, we're looking to, it's, you know, it's still in its early stages, um, look to build upon, uh, more of an educational platform, uh, with regards to, uh, just practical applications to, you know, research or just how we do things like coaching wise, um, as a potential, you know, maybe someone who can't invest in coaching, but they want really, really good information, not maybe not like a template, but like, okay, here's how, you know, some guidance, right. It's more general, but it's not coaching. Um, so we're, it's in its infancy, but that's, you know, we're, we're working on putting something together like that. Cool. Yeah. I know I can, I've done some similar projects and they're a lot and, uh, it's a lot. Yeah. But it's, yeah, it's something that I, it doesn't feel like work to me. It's something I kind of put together. Like it's, it's all in my notes anyway. And I'm like, okay, just, just turn the loom on, make the video. All right, we got it. I have to speak to it. Like people talk about, you can get all your information online for free. And that's true. I think you probably say everything that's, I can't say for sure, but most of the things in your course, you've probably talked about it somewhere or someone else has somehow, but to put it all into something easy digestible, it's like a course to sit through. It makes such a difference. It's like, I don't know, trying to read loads of different articles versus having just a textbook. Oh, the muscle and strength pyramids is a great example from Eric. It's just so different having it like laid out there in a really easy to digest way. So that's exciting. Uh, I'll make sure to, I guess if people want to keep up to date with you, any kind of projects you're working on when this gets released, uh, is Instagram the best place? I'll make sure that's linked. Yeah. Instagram would probably be the best place. Uh, another really, really good spot is, uh, beyondbodybuilding.com. That's kind of like our central hub, um, for articles, resources that we put out, um, also for, uh, coaching and, you know, everything that, you know, we do that maybe, you know, too long for Instagram or short form content. Awesome. Yeah. And, and those that don't know that is, uh, you and Chris Barakat kind of head that one up. And Chris has been on the podcast, obviously a great person and a great guest. And I imagine a great person to be working with. So yeah, very exciting. I'll make sure that's linked again. Thank you so much for your time, Josh. Thank you guys for listening and we'll catch you in the next one. Yep. Yep. Thank you, Steve.