 I think I told you off air. I'm just getting rid of intros. It's just like, screw it. Let's just dive straight into the first question. So I don't introduce me, the guest, anything. I'm like, but I quite like introducing the improvement season. It kind of gets me going. Yeah, exactly. There's always like an anchor point. And I don't know, I, as a listener, if I was a listener, I'd kind of like go, Hey, you know, I don't know. There's something nice about the intro. And everyone's unsure if Mike's going to sing when it's his turn. There's always that possibility. You know, we started with it. You never know. And we are coming to Christmas. So you never know. I might bust out a little jingle or something. On that note, any decorations up? No. You haven't got an advent calendar, I'm guessing. No, I haven't got an advent calendar. There's literally nothing. No one would know what time of year is in your house. Nope. Do you know what's quite funny? Because a lot of my neighbours and a lot of people in kind of the street that I live, they've gone to town with the Christmas decorations outside. It's literally in the, at nighttime, it's like coming into winter wonderland. No joke. And even... How do you like it? It's okay. Do you know what? It does make you feel a little bit festive sometimes. Okay. But I do flip-flop a little bit because sometimes it makes me go the opposite direction and it makes me want to go like, meh. I never thought Mike would be a little bit of a Grinch. And more than me, I'm normally the one who's like, more Grinch in terms of whatever it is. So in some way, I quite like it. Though I like people who like Christmas. I don't know why. Charlotte kind of loves Christmas. So it ends up meaning that I should love it too. And I kind of start going that way. I am. I do get into the festive mood at Christmas, on Christmas Day, but in the lead up. In the lead up. Leading to the last minute. Yeah, exactly. It's all about intensity on the day and then get it over and done with. But isn't that part of what people derive pleasure? It's the anticipation of the event. So you're missing out on all the anticipation over this month where you could be being like, oh, it's Christmas. Actually, I actually literally have Christmas tunes playing on Alexa downstairs. So I've actually embraced it a little bit. I did want to try and find my Christmas hat because I have one somewhere where I was like, oh, I can't find that one. But I've got a bit of a sparkly top on. Maybe that counts. Yeah, I think so. Yeah, definitely. Oh, I was thinking of this then. Yeah, no, that's great. On the note of advent calendars, by the way, I don't know if I mentioned it. Charlotte actually got me a protein bar advent calendar. Did I tell you that? I think you did. Yes, I do remember. So I was going to get, I asked for the barbells one or bearbells. It is bearbells, not barbells, bearbells. And because it has some exclusive flavors, which is pretty cool. But she said it all sold out. So she went through this website. They do like, basically, I'm not very impressed by it. Don't tell Charlotte that. The choices she made are great. But you basically, they're like, it's like a snack selection. So you can do like a vegan snack box or like a crisp snack box, whatever it is. It's just this templated box that they fill with various snacks that fit the design. Yeah. So she did a really good job. She's put all the protein bars she's got. She was like, I didn't put in any like, there was like Trek ones and ones with barely any protein. And she was like, I got all bearbells. And basically, they're all bearbells and grenade means some of them repeat quite a bit. But still, they're good. I'd much prefer a repeat than a, it's like getting a bad present. Like, oh, it's the thought that counts. But sometimes you're like, I wish you didn't get me that t shirt that doesn't fit or has something on it that I'm like, I wouldn't wear that. But anyway, but they, you open it up. And whatever the design is, the cardboard they use, all the protein bars just fall. So like, it just isn't well made. So like, I open for a day and I'm like, oh, what am I going to get today? And I'm like, it's blank. Oh, all the protein bars are at the bottom of the box. And I have to like fish it out. So I just pick whatever protein bar I fancy basically on the day. So I have got quite a collection of protein bars now though, because a protein bar a day. I've been a bit better this week of trying to fit it in. But I'm creature of habit. I end up filling my macros with my usual stuff. Then I'm like, oh, rubbish. I was meant to have that instead. But yes, anyway. Did we ever talk about David protein bars? I don't think they've come up on the podcast specifically. I'm actually impressed, Mike, that you're aware of them. Oh, well, I can't claim credit because one of my clients mentioned it. They were like, have you heard of David bars? And I was like, no, I haven't. Of course you haven't. You live in a box. Exactly. With no Christmas decorations. Yeah. And it's and actually, yeah. So I'm I was considering buying some David protein bars. So have you actually done any research on them? I did a brief Google search because I don't think you'll buy any. Oh, really? The price. Oh, very expensive. Are they? OK, because they're American. I forget who are they made by. Oh, what's his name? He's a longevity expert. Why rubbish? His name's not in my head. You won't remember him. He's bald as well. He's got his own podcast. He's very well known. I've actually read his book and his name is he's just not been. Not Daniel Amen. Peter Atiyah. Peter Atiyah. That's exactly who it is. Oh, that guy. Yeah. Yes. I'm pretty sure it is. But I'm pretty sure he was like the he's part of that. And maybe even Lane Norton has like some shares in it or something. I don't know. But here's something there. They do. They have this really interesting ingredient in there that they've, I think, like bought the license for or something. Oh, you know, the like fat kind of in a sense, it's like a sweetener for fats. Didn't they get into trouble about it? I don't know if they go into trouble or people just weren't happy, I think. Because now they own because they bought the company with that exclusive ingredient and now no one can use it, basically. There you go, Mike. Yeah, you're aware of it. But I've wanted to try these bars, too. Not because I think they're going to taste great, because I imagine they won't taste amazing. But the macros on them, because of that, like, I don't know how much fat they've got in them, but I imagine they're pretty low fat because of that. So, but to be fair, the Perform protein bars, which I've mentioned previously, I think they're five grams of fat, which is damn low considering how good they taste. Well, the cookie dough one tastes good. I can't claim for any other flavors tasting good because I either can't remember having had them or I don't think the Dubai chocolate one is one you want to have. Yeah, but five grams of fat is really good, though, to be fair. Yeah, for 20 grams of protein as well. So, but the David Bar, oh, aren't they? They've got like a stupid, they're like protein to calorie ratio is like unheard of. It's almost like as good as a whey protein scoop, essentially. Yeah. Very convenient. It's like 150 calories for 20 grams or something. Yeah, something like that. Really good. I'd be interested, actually, if anyone listening has had one and comment and let us know what you thought of it. If there's any flavors, I'm just interested to try them. If they I've seen them on offer and I'm still like, that's still really expensive. But part of me, I don't know if I live in like the like decade earlier where protein bars were like between one to two pounds. But now they're like two pounds is cheap for a protein bar, apparently. And now they're like three to four pounds or something crazy. So I see them in Tesco, like the grenade ones. And I'm like, they're like almost three quid. Who the hell's buying that? Yeah, no. I remember how disappointed I was. I do remember me telling you this where I saw a packet of grenade protein bars before and I thought, oh, they're going for like three pounds or something. I was like, yeah, bargain. I'll get it. And then I opened them up and they're like half the size. Classic Mike. I got I got sold. Literally asked for anything for Christmas. I don't expect you have. No, I haven't really. We're just going to we've got like a little cap of me and my family that is of 15 to 20 pounds. And then. And then you can't get that much for 15, 20 pounds anymore. No. So it's just something to open at Christmas, basically, because we're all kind of like we just want to spend time with each other. So, you know, it's just something to have to open like a knick knacky thing. Yeah, that's nice. My mom always asks me for something and I'm like, oh, I don't know. And then she ends up like sending money and I'm like, oh, you don't need to do that. But at the same time, I'm fortunate enough not to come from a well, we're middle class, put it that way. So I know they've got like it's not like they're like scratching and pinching pennies. But equally, I'm not either. So I'm like, hey, maybe I don't know. I don't know what to do with it. But be charitable, like spend it on Ada's treatment. That'll help. Yeah, absolutely. But it's kind of I imagine you're the same as well. I'd rather someone not spend anything rather than get me something that I don't really want or need. It's like, no, just keep it and save it for something else. Yeah, it's a tricky situation because at the same time, I love the idea of gifting and being thoughtful and that sort of thing. And it's amazing when someone gets you something that you can clearly put a ton of thought into and is just perfect. But that is so rare to get right. And when you're an adult, you've got money and you buy the things you really kind of want. So something I my sister is one of my sisters, at least is quite careful about like she doesn't want, quote unquote, junk. Essentially, that's what it would be in a sense for her children. So I always would ask like, oh, what do they want this year? And I basically she'd send me links and I buy them. And she was like, do you want to just not do that anymore? Because like you're just asking me and then buying it. And so maybe we just don't do gifts for each other. I'm like, I understand why she would say that boss at the same time. I'm like, oh, but something is nice about giving the gift. But anyway, so I but in the same time at the same time for my other sister and her kids, I'm like looking at things I think they're going to like. And I'm like this could just fall completely flat. Like I can remember getting presents from my aunt and uncles and just being like, thanks. I don't know what I'm going to do with this. Yeah, it's one of those. I think it's similar to gratitude because they often say that, you know, if you express your gratitude to someone, it benefits the giver as much as it does the receiver. And I think it's the same thing with gifts sometimes. Yeah, for sure. But I haven't equally I haven't asked for anything. So I'm a bit nervous what Charlotte's mum has purchased for me. I'm always a bit nervous because, yeah, she is. She's a character and I should be wearing or doing or eating the thing that she provides me. Gifts me, gifts me. I'm very grateful. Be an interesting one. On that note, so something really cool happened to me today or something really nice and thoughtful. So in the gym that I go to, there's a guy who I see and you know how I've actually got it on today. You know, I've got this hoodie which has Kakashi on the back. Yeah. So there's a guy who goes to the gym and he always remarks about it and he goes, hey, Kakashi. And he calls me Kakashi in the gym. And I literally, it was kind of weird, actually. So I was coming out of the toilets and he happened to walk past me and he was like, hey. And he was like, by the way, I am. There's like a anime shop in Oxford now. And I bought you this. Oh, wow. And he bought me this. That's so kind. Yeah. Little, I can't put like pop up thing. Yeah. I've got one of those. That's a Vegeta. That was a gift from a client. So, yeah, that's nice. And it came up with this like little card as well. Hey. So I was like, oh, amazing. So I'm always, I see those and I'm like, I could, I like those. But then I'm like, oh, but then I'd have to find a place for them. And then I'd probably end up getting obsessed and collecting them and then becoming like overwhelmed by all of these little trinkets. But that's super kind. Yeah. I can't say anyone in my gym has given me a gift like that. That's wild. I know. We're not even like, I wouldn't say we're friends or whatever. It's just like, we just, he kind of like, you know, you do the old. Yeah, I know. Now I have him a gift now. But he was just like, yeah, you know, he kind of goes in there and get something for himself. And he said like, oh, I just saw it. And I was like, hey, I'm going to get it for you. That, my friend, is the sort of gift that just hits. Where the person has thought of you in a situation and they know this thing about you and then they've bought it. So it almost doesn't matter what the gift is. It's like, man, that's so, that's really thoughtful. Yeah. Which I struggle with at the moment with some of my sisters and everything because I'm so away from everything they're doing. I don't, even my parents, like I don't know what they're into, what they're watching, anything. So I'm like, it's hard to have them in my mind in that way. But yeah, anyway, it is what it is. And again, it goes back to that thing of, is it even worth getting a gift? Because it's not going to be meaningful. It's kind of just spending money for the sake of spending money. I don't know. It's such a tricky one. Yeah, it can be. But yeah, me and Charlotte have like, I don't even know what our cap is for spending. I just end up getting her a few bits. And I ask her as well what she might like. But for her, I can find things that I know she's going to like and like use most of the time. Sometimes I fail. But yeah, she's the person I know the best in the world. It's like, I can't do that for that many people. Yeah. What we should have done, actually, it'd be cool if maybe we could instigate this with like clients. Oh, man, that's gonna be really hard. I was gonna say like a secret Santa. That'd be really tough. Yeah. What we could do in future, Mike, is do it for each other. Just like do a, at the end of the year, like a 15, 20 pound, whatever secret Santa kind of jokey present. Open it on the podcast. Damn, we should have done that this year. That'll definitely be something for future. Definitely. That'll be the next tradition for sure. For sure. Any other updates on your end? No. I mean, really, things are just continuing to go smoothly from a shoulder perspective. I actually, so we haven't talked about this yet, but I saw the physio yesterday and they were really happy with the progress that we're making. And I said, what? So I asked them, do you think training like upper body fully by February is a realistic expectation? And they were like, yeah, I think so. And equally, you can start training your upper body now. It's kind of going to be a, like a gradual process. So he said, if with exercises that feel good, you can train for hypertrophy now, essentially. Wow. That's awesome news. Yeah. So I was like, okay, cool. So as of today, so I started doing some non-BFR arm work today, just kind of just really conservative, easy. And it felt good. So, yeah, things are looking really positive. That is great news. Yeah, I imagine that's a huge relief. And yeah, I know you'll take it nice and gradual because you've been there, done that, kind of pushed it too hard too soon. So to get that news before the start of the year is great. And obviously in your check-in just recently, actually, we went over like your timeline and everything. Which I was really happy to put into place because I was like, this is nice for me as well to think about, right, assessing your physique. Obviously, you've kind of been specializing on lower body. Let's kind of put some of that effort into upper body and then kind of cut it back and do a physique review. So I'm excited just for you and next year and to be injury-free and touch wood, no freak accidents, Mike. No, no. Not allowed that. Exactly. Not that you can control it, but. Yeah. And I've had moments sort of over the last week or so where I've kind of almost had like an emotional moment where, because you can see the finish line. It's not the finish line as such, but you can see that sort of end point almost where you're kind of beyond the injury. And it's just, I got a little bit emotional at times because I was like, oh, it would just be so nice again to be where I want to be. And having, like you said, having that long-term plan in place. I don't know. It's weird because when you, to a certain extent, I've been so focused on other people and I've not competed for a long time now. It's kind of like, oh, I'm doing something for me now. And I'm a little bit more on the spotlight. It feels a bit like, oh, this is quite nice to kind of, yeah, do something for myself. Yeah, for sure. I mean, bodybuilding is inevitably a selfish endeavor, especially competitive like that season. It has to be because there's just so much you have to control and so much your bandwidth becomes so limited. But at the same time, I can absolutely see why you're emotional about it because I would be as well because training means so much to us. But even now, like the sense of just, I think if you were to ask Charlotte, she can probably tell my attitude shift even in the past week versus other weeks. If she was here, like she's barely ever here because she's just working like crazy. But I think on the weekend and stuff, she'd probably notice just because I can train legs again, like full bore and I feel resilient and I feel strong. So, I mean, that's my attitude or update on my little TFL thing. It's still there for sure. I feel it here or there. Not when I'm training, but like outside of the gym in some unique situations. But I think in a week's time, it's going to have basically passed, which is exciting. And I can go through torturous leg days like I did today, which was fun. Yeah, and it just feels so sweet, right? Just to kind of be able to torture yourself again in all the good ways. Yeah, and not feel nervous. And also, I'm in a good position where it's forced me to reset some lifts. So, where SFR was dropping off as I was progressing them, been able to like modify the technique a little bit to improve that stimulus to fatigue trade off. And just systemic fatigue then really reduces down. And yeah, I get all the good feels and less of the bad feels, as it were. And I think we mentioned it last week, but the fact that you've still got some low level awareness, I think is actually a good thing. Because again, it just grounds you a little bit just to make sure like, hey, let's just keep playing things sensibly. Keep monitoring it, you know, and not do anything too crazy. Yeah, and I think a solution that's going to help with that anyway is the pre-fatigue of the quads on the leg extension ahead of time. Or sissy squats. I think it's just going to have to be like a standalone thing for me to do. Just so I can make sure for people who aren't aware of the role of pre-fatigue, which I think most people are. But essentially, if my quads are more fatigued going into their compound lift, they're going to get closer to failure sooner than other muscles. And that's what I need. I need them to be the limiting factor. So it's just a workaround for me. And I don't know why I've never, I've instigated it at times and definitely when I'm injured. But I don't know why I've never thought of it as a bit of a permanent solution to use. I don't know if it should be permanent, but certainly using it kind of the majority of the time, I think it just makes sense for me. Yeah, no, I totally agree. I guess as well, as well as them fatiguing early, hopefully it should. You've got a great mind muscle connection with your quads anyway, but I guess it would only enhance that to a certain degree as well. Yeah, yeah. I have a good mind muscle connection. It's unfortunate because I already feel on my, how I've had to change my stance back to my traditional stance. I can already feel the adductors getting some love, but they're not getting sore or anything. And considering they've been under-trained probably or. Less trained for a while. That's a good sign. And my quads have been getting some soreness. So again, it's a good feedback that things are going in the right direction. So I'm, I'm pleased about that. But yeah, that's really my only update. I think for the week, I have nothing else to really talk about. So I guess we know this is a bit of a truncated episode because we have to record twice today. So people have an episode to look forward to over the Christmas period. Actually, I don't know what day that will come out, but the Monday after Christmas, the next episode, which we'll record in a minute or in 30 minutes or so. We'll do that one. So should we get to the physique review? Because people have been enjoying that. And we have three I think we can get through today. Let's do it. I'm ready. And I'm excited. Cool. So I'm going to bring up my screen share. Let's go through. I don't know who we've got first, but cool. We've got Daniel. All right. Let's expand these. Can you see my screen? Yeah. Yep. Brilliant. So I'm just going to drop Ada off because she is making me way too hot. So Daniel says he is a competitor. And this was these pictures of four days out from his last contest in September. Cool. Let's go over them then. Nice. You can start, Mike, and then I'll come in the back end. Sorry. Thanks, Steve. Firstly, like lots of muscle. I mean, quads for me are kind of a bit of a standout. Like just lovely sweep to his quads. Nice waist. There's an X frame. I imagine, I would say that Daniel's got similar side delts to yourself, Steve. There's clearly size there, but the cap in this position isn't quite as prominent. But a great amount of muscle. I wonder if there's anything more Daniel can do to lift up through the top of his chest and flare his lats out just a little bit more just to accentuate the X frame. Because I think he's got it and lots of muscle and generally good symmetry. But if there's maybe more he can do to pop his lats, it might just improve again X frame and enhance the symmetry. Yeah, I think he's actually really nicely balanced throughout the physique. I do wonder. His feet look like they're not neutral. They look a bit offset. And I don't know if it's like left to right leg. They also look, the left leg is a bit more externally rotated to the right. And I don't know if that's on purpose or not, but it doesn't help his symmetry, I don't think. And he's not got a thigh gap, but you can see he's actually losing size. He's actually pressing his adductors against one another. So I wonder if he could make his feet more symmetrical, externally rotate the same amount. And then maybe even, I'd say actually just bend the knee. And I think that'll help his X frame a little bit. Enhancing just the, and that might even make his waist look a bit smaller by making his base look a bit broader. Maybe have his, I don't know if he's pushing his hips back. He probably is a little bit because I can see his Sertorius and hip flex a little bit. And then I think exactly what you said, kind of puff up that chest to look bigger up top. And really kind of almost, he is almost doing a bit of a vacuum anyway, but emphasizing that a bit more. And dude, this is an awesome shot, don't you think? I don't know if he's amateur or what have you, but just looking at this shot, he is on the cusp of just finding a show and he could be turning pro. 100% agree. Like Daniel, like very impressive. Very impressive. Obviously that's just based off this one shot and maybe the others will open up some areas where. I'm not changing my mind so far. Yeah. So we've got a side relaxed here. Yeah. Nothing I can't critique. I think. It's not doing it. But again, like you just want to make sure just with the hands that they are level, which they pretty much are. And again, he's not covering his glute with his right hand. So the hand that's sort of by his glute. You don't. He's not covering it. He just wants to make sure that he keeps it that way, if that makes sense. But like nothing to critique really on this shot. I think it's literally the only thing I would say is bring that rear shoulder down about bring the hand down a slight touch as well. And then you'd get shoulders symmetrical. You get hand symmetrical. But just as you said, I think from looking at this shot and his front relaxed, the chest might be a small weakness for him. Agreed. Yeah. Yeah. Because everywhere else is looking pretty damn symmetrical, to be honest. I was going to say on that front shot, if he just had a tiny bit more upper chest. Yeah. That would just really like cement how strong he is. Look at these adductors, man. God damn. We're looking at a rear relaxed now. And he's peeled, right? You can see his tricep striations, lower back striations. Yeah. Yeah. So now again, just a similar thing here, maybe. I wonder if he just lifted up through his chest and be tall through his chest, whether that might help a little bit more. But not too much else to say on this back relaxed either. I think kind of what you said at the start with regards to his foot position. Again, I don't know if his foot position is a bit asymmetrical. And if he changed that to make it more, it would improve the shot. Yeah. That left foot, again, is more externally rotated than the right. Yeah. And that left quad sweep looks great. But on the right, it looks a bit, it's not as sweepy. So I definitely would have a play with that. And exactly as you said on the front shot applies to the rear shot. I think he's got a bit more back width to give if he elongates his torso, as you mentioned. Carbs might be a little bit of a weakness, but who aren't they for? Yeah. Apart from Martin Lamont, they're pretty much a weakness for all of us. So, right, let's get to the front double. Okay. So, I would have said with Daniel's physique, he doesn't need to... Strong agree. Yeah. I don't think he needs to offset himself here. Because I think with the muscle he's got, the legs, you know, the shoulders, yeah. I don't think he needs to hit the front double bicep like this. He needs to hit it front on, straight up. Yeah, exactly. Like, you've definitely got the X frame for this, Daniel. Um, that would be the biggest thing that I would just say about this pose. Yeah. And then just the hips slightly back, probably. Yeah. Slightly. But, yeah, exactly as you said, he doesn't need to contort himself in that way like I do. And this is a strong... Side chest. So, I would say this is a strong shot. You can see how big his legs are. Like, great hamstring drop. Just great low half. So, yeah. I think a strong shot for Daniel. Again, just make sure. Keep that chest nice and proud. Really keep the arm pressing against the body. To make... Because I would say, again, maybe the arms... Just very slightly. So, just keep the arm pressing against the body. To accentuate the size of the arms. And don't... Keep the hand on the wrist. Not too high up the forearm. Just to, again... Forearms look great. Just don't hide the forearm. So, yeah. That would be my... Interesting. I often, hitting this shot, don't press my arm against my torso. And I press it towards the judges. I tend... I need to play around with both. But I've always felt better that way. And I wonder if... I don't find I get as much of a benefit from trying to press it against my body. It doesn't really seem to smush it much. Whereas when I press it out to the judge, I tend to... Obviously, it's just nearer. So, it looks a bit bigger. But I don't... Yeah. I don't know. I'd be interested to see him do both. And see how it goes. But he's hitting this shot really well. But it also shows that his chest is a bit of a weakness. But everywhere else is great. Yeah. Totally agree. Again, very strong shot. And again, this is super strong. I mean, the only things I would get Daniel to play around with is the difference between fully locking his tricep out. His shoulder close to the camera is like high. I wonder if he just relaxed it a little bit more. So, he's more... So, his shoulders are more square. Whether that would change things a little bit. And if he pushed his shoulder furthest away from the camera, a little... Like, he had a bit more twist. A tiny little bit more twist to make the shoulders a bit wider. Those are the only small things that I would make. Yeah. People struggle with their mobility in this, don't they? Where some people, they can't even, like, lock out their elbow in terms of the side. And they struggle to twist. So, but yeah. Let's get to a rear dub. And then we do just the most muscular. Because we have more people to get through. Yeah. Like you said. Do you think here, Steve, that Daniel's not squeezing his glutes? Hmm. I imagine they're on. But he is posteriorly tilted. Hmm. At best, neutral. But I do think he's probably contracting them. Just seeing how he's on his hamstrings quite well. Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. And nothing too much to say here. I think, like, some of the comments we've made in the past. Again, can Daniel excellently rotate his arms a touch more? Maybe? Just a touch? Like, which. again same comments as keep the chest tall to kind of get some nice thoracic extension but gain striations through the lower back playing around with just kind of his hip position just to see if he can bring out maybe any striations in the glutes and again he could even play around with just externally rotating his left foot more so that he's got a little bit more of an angle with his with his legs his right foot his well both his left and his right okay because i think he's he could do a bending that right leg as well right it'll just yeah to line up with the left yeah i agree with all your comments and yeah his glutes are boxed off whether or not he has more detail to show there's a bit of genetics there and then also he maybe has like he's very conditioned but could he play with a bit more could he get a bit more conditioned we almost all can he probably could get a little bit more conditioned but if that would harm other things it's not worth it uh and i'd probably have him just close off his angle on his forearms especially that left one it's just a little bit too 90 degrees for me yeah and maybe play around with having them up just a half inch but yeah great shot honestly he's actually very complete apart from the chest a little bit so now we've got most muscular sorry was there anything else on that one no no no that was everything i was just so again my only comment here is um daniel's just tilting his body and again i think daniel you'd look better just square on you've got the muscle and i think if you just like be square on uh have your feet square and just be proud and hit this i think this would be great what's the scene mike you'll know it where arnie's like pose like bigger basically and he's is it louis faringo or whatever he's talking to he's like don't close yourself off like open yourself up yeah and that's kind of the thought i have to mind here with daniel is like you're a big guy like he's got heaps of muscle he doesn't need to like try and use any techniques to kind of hide the fact that he's a smaller individual he's not he's got heaps of tissue so uh yeah daniel uh hi guys steve here just wanted to take a moment of your time to remind you of our online coaching service at revive stronger we pride ourselves on providing personalized service that will take your physique and knowledge to the next level if you're interested check the description and sign up like i said i don't know if he's a pro or what but he certainly has the potential to go that way so anyway very impressive really cool looks like he did the wmf island so i don't know how he did but uh yeah i won't do that we've got probably a bit of a quicker one from my guy wesley um and i wanted to just basically give him a shout out because he said he's a hemiplegic i actually don't know what that means do you know what that means mike i think that's where the blood doesn't clot essentially oh wow okay it's quite a serious thing and uh that left him glass inside his brain wow due to a car crash 40 plus brain hemorrhages okay that makes sense which caused my left arm to be paralyzed slash spastic so i'm doing what i can i cannot train my left arm because that could further aggravate the spasms i only train my back chest and leg on the left side i'm trying to say an example for other people proving that being disabled does not mean being defeated love that hence my catchphrase dnd disabled not defeated that's that's awesome man love that love that wesley yeah i mean he's got a great physique too he's carrying a good amount of muscle nice share it with us oh and what do you mean share it with us i'm clicking on you're not showing us um you're not sharing your screen oh what i thought i was sharing my screen oh i'm so sorry i was really just hogging it all to yourself i thought it was still sharing i didn't realize as i closed that tab it wasn't sharing here we go so yeah great physique awesome wesley he's developed a good amount of muscle considering like being from the wheelchair wow sizes carrying now like massive props to him yeah i mean the imbalance isn't that bad considering no so yeah shout out to wesley i know he listens to a lot of our stuff appreciate you my man this is so good wesley i'll make sure to share the proper screen now or share it whilst i think i'm sharing it here we go so we have nadim below are some picks from my first prep two months ago followed by some stage shots wmbf netherlands and then the ncobb belgium and uh yeah he's been lifting 10 years 179 centimeters 75 kilo stage weight so he's quite tall you can see that peeled yeah i'll let you i'll let you go mike so firstly i would say impressive upper body um got a ham i would say what i'd probably just get you to do here nadine is just spike the calf a little bit more and you can see that you're pressing the leg against the other thigh you can see that nice hamstring drop i think the legs they i don't know whether it's just because nadine's tall um but i would say his legs look a little bit weak in this shot compared to his upper body um but and i would just say nadine don't crunch down too much on the side chest because your height is going to be a strength so if you keep your chest really nice and proud and high you're going to dominate over other competitors i think or at least not lose size over people at the same height as you so use your height to your advantage and be tall in this pose best feedback yeah air up stand tall and i probably would grip a bit up his forearm to just close off this gap that he has going on here and then just square off those shoulders his arms are huge and he's clearly peeled and yes a little bit uh upper body dominant then we've got oh he looks up a body dominant and then you see his front relax damn lies and and um so nadine i guess the only i'm in two minds about this because there i was almost going to say his feet look a tiny little bit too close together i wonder if he just had a if he kept his feet pointing out because he his legs almost look a tiny little bit bowed but i so i just think if he just moved his feet out a tiny bit but keep them excellently rotated i don't know if that might look a touch better but otherwise great x frame and i don't have too much to say here with this with this shot it's very very symmetrical it's good just calves me yeah the calves it's an awesome shot yeah looks very balanced uh so yeah from the side looked a little bit weak on the lower body but his quads are stand out but huge thick chest massive round belts uh i just say look forward really for me that would be the only thing but uh that's a sick shot oh and the head position is a ongoing thing looking down on the rear relax definitely don't do that i and again i would say here nadine uh be tall because you're kind of you look like you're rounding and almost trying to do a lat spread this time so i would say just be tall you're flaring you're flaring the back a little bit but don't flare your lats to the point of slumping and turning it into a lat spread i would say and actually from the rear and side his legs do look a little weak i think this is a and it actually showed a little bit from the front but because his quads are so dominant it wasn't an issue but his adductors yeah it's just that gap that thigh gap that we don't like to see so i would probably see if we can close that somehow and just work on the adductors and hamstrings yeah that was why i think it's hamstrings and a little bit of a duct to work would go a long way but glutes as well yes probably glutes as well posterior chain a little bit but not the back the back looks stellar we'll see how it looks in some of these let's look at a rear i i'm excited to see his front lat spread but let's do a rear double so like you're saying arms great the actual back itself looks great and it is coming to light that i think hamstrings and that posterior chain you know is is the weak point here so bringing that up will really complete the physique um yeah i think just main things here there isn't i haven't got too much to say just the small points of spike your calf and it's just that balance between being tall but not leaning back too far there's like a middle ground there i would say um i'm you could and play around with arm height again we've said about raising the arms nothing wrong with the arms here but it would be cool just to see what does it look like with his arms slightly elevated or but also a tiny little bit uh more level with the shoulders that would be cool to see yeah i think i would bring those down a touch they're a little high for me and i think you could do that in combination with i don't know how much he's on his lats that's what i'm wondering like is he isometrically contracting him he looks a bit thick through the waist and i wonder if bring the elbows down a bit make him maybe look a bit wider along with bringing them down and contracting hard on the lats to see if we can get a bit more width through them but yeah all your other comments were spotting he's actually hitting the lower body well it's just this the size is a bit lacking there let's have a look at the front that spread so he's clearly got huge lats um and a tiny waist actually he's got the opposite problem i have i look kind of good from the back but from the front uh not so much but nadine it's a little bit opposite for you not that you look bad nothing too much to say here i think nadine your hit is in the shot pretty well i would say that you don't it it looks here like his feet are offset like his left foot is forward or again there's he's pointing his left foot out slightly versus the right so i just say just make sure that you're square like you're symmetrical with your feet and leg position because again your symmetry from the front is fantastic so you don't need to do any fancy stuff with being offset yeah my only comment here is uh doctors don't look like they're the issue having seen them from the front actually i think it is hamstrings and glutes that need the focus oh man this is i just love his front shots they're so aesthetically pleasing to see um but yeah it looks like this this shot definitely could do with a it's the posterior chain right yeah just looking at some stage shots of rear uh lat spread there and head look forward it's a minor thing yeah then what else should we have a look at let's have a look at is there any eddies you want to look at we got a front relaxed just yeah pick a couple pick one or two i think hitting that differently compared to that i think it might just be the camera angle you know he's maybe a bit more ridey a bike yeah so he's on small comment posing trunks just get them up a little bit on those hip bones oh that one's not very yeah yeah a little bit weak from the side and i would just say again like relax the shoulders relax the wrists so they're not too curled because you can't he kind of looks a little bit shrugged almost with his shoulder you can see the trap yeah so kind of relax your shoulders relax the arms a little bit to bring them down um relax your wrists and i think that'll do that'll do a lot yeah and again tall through the chest it's such AI think one of the hardest things with side shots is that balance between kind of flexing down on your abs and blowing the air out but not sinking through the chest it's a hard balance to strike i find yeah a lot of people struggle to not shrug the and get their traps up in that but man nadim has such potential if he and like i'm assuming he's listening like get the calves up the glutes up the hamstrings up and he is very complete and will do damage i imagine he was very competitive at the netherlands i don't know where he came but i wouldn't be surprised if he was in that top three uh to be honest with you so um right we have one uh wait was that the last one yeah that was it okay great now we can get some questions guys we have a little bit of time to get that done we're nice and efficient i didn't ask for new questions this past week um if you are listening and you're like whoa questions where do we ask that well you can the best place is to join my broadcast group on instagram if you're not on instagram you can leave a comment on youtube i just am more likely to miss it so the best place is to join the hypertrophic time chamber over on instagram and it's always linked in the description as well if you're unsure where that is but um yeah mike do you want to ask the first question yeah so this i believe um where we left things off so uh it's the dad bod underscore coach and do you know who this is yes i do know donald my man it's our guy donald so he won was it the lightweights at supernaturals and he went on to wmbf worlds um and forgive me for forgetting i i feel like donald won his pro card at world he did win his pro card yeah and he actually placed in the top five in his category in the pro class the next day so not only did he win his pro card but he was competitive in the pro ranks immediately which is what it should be and what you want as a pro competitor so uh it was really great actually he tagged me in a recent post mike basically being like it was a transformation from the supernaturals at the uk show and then to worlds and he basically just put the comment i had which was pretty simple improve your posing get a little touch tighter and uh he was like just implemented that exactly and the posing was the biggest thing i he can actually if donald's listening i think he will uh he can still improve his posing we all can it's an ever like going thing but props to you for taking on that feedback and implementing it because he was already pretty tight the posing was the biggest win for him and it's only that's really all you can do as a competitor like posing come in a little bit leaner and that also means get your peak as dialed in as possible so yeah props to donald yeah and did i i think i've mentioned this before but donald and i have been on the same stage as well we were both at supernaturals in 23 i didn't realize he'd done the 23 show yeah yeah and he earned his mpa pro card earlier this year too right that is true which you judged at which i judged that yeah we both judged donald he had a long season yeah so congrats donald but anyway we will get on to your question so donald asks where is an international show you would like to compete in in your next competitive season oh man you know what i'd love to do a show in asia because they just i mean first of all it's an area of the world i haven't really been i haven't been to basically and you're gonna meet people you never like really meet because it's just unlikely because they're so far away it's just such a hard show to do uh from europe so i would love to do a show in asia but i also think i'd quite like to do the wahala pro show in germany that's just very very competitive because the germans bring it so from the ones i've seen their production's really really good and so i think that that's one that springs to mind at least how about yourself mike pretty much the same so the wmbf taiwan the one eric competed that i mean to compete at that would be so cool or even like malaysia or singapore like those are just great i have one more possibly dubai yes pretty cool i need an excuse also to go there because charlotte will never want to go there and i want to just experience dubai hear so much about it no i completely agree is that the uae one or is it different yeah i think that's it that'd be so good and as a pro there's prize money decent money so that would be another plus i'm taking it home yeah absolutely if i win prize money i i'm going to put it all towards just like the trip i mean spending money on the trip i don't mean like trying to offset the travel cost because it won't yeah yeah but otherwise it'd be the same things um the valhalla would be amazing yeah pretty much the same ones to be honest with you because they are just so cool awesome so then we have our man christopher alm who asks in your experience as judges how much does stage presence do for scoring oh what a great question yeah so so i think it for me it's less of a uh sort of actual score as such it's more of um it's kind of like that x factor almost for me where you know how you're hitting that your poses how is that stage presence um it's not like a formal score on on the sheet but it definitely adds to that and i think it also it uh like particularly maybe more i think it's a it's needed for both uh all categories but um like it might differ depending on the category so you want to be confident but equally you don't want to be overly aggressive with categories like bikini or figure you want to portray that element of grace and elegance type thing not necessarily being sort of you know aggressive as such so um yeah that would be my my main thoughts there i was trying to think of a good analogy for this mike because uh it's as you said ultimately as a judge it's nothing that i am considering judging someone on but it can impact the judging i was trying to think about this like i don't know you enter a nightclub and there's 10 pretty damn attractive women all quite similar looking and there's just i've been it has been so long since i've been single so this is a hard analogy for me to really give but there's like just your vibe with someone like there's like that x factor there's just something special about this like a few of them whereas there's others who i don't know they just look a bit grumpy they maybe look like they're a bit of a bitch you're just like i just don't want to get involved with that like you're hot but so you just it puts you off a little bit or you also have the ones who go too far where they're like in your face and like it's about me and all of this and they're like showing off you're like i'd like you to be a bit more modest you kind of find the person who just has that nice vibe and i think it's the same on stage you can be too much where you're super overconfident on stage you're like nodding away whilst you're hitting a front relaxed and you're like dude like calm down and then you have other people where they're like they look a bit like just glum in themselves they don't have that energy about them and so it's just easy to maybe not they don't capture your attention as much and it's really important to capture the judge's attention i can't tell you how important that is because we don't have long and there's a lot of you up there so you need to get in your pose efficiently and smile give us energy and make us like look at you and smile back type of thing because then you're going to get a look in so yeah that's that's kind of how i hope that analogy made it is good i think and to kind of just add a cap to that i think it's got to be to an element authentic energy like it can't be like bring energy but it doesn't need to be over the top still be you on stage but just have that nice middle ground between not being glum and also not being like in everybody's face yeah i think just being there and being proud and being present and wanting to show off your best like i think if you go on with that energy you can't fail so great nice one mike right okay so lloyd grossman 41 asks what symptoms are there when someone is at their low body fat set point i feel fatigued even when sleep is around eight hours and i train four times per week and steps are around 18 000 you know what when i read this question sorry i shouldn't be laughing i mean it's nothing it's funny to me when i think of lloyd grossman i think of uh pasta sauce yeah yeah yeah that'll probably only hit if you're in the uk because he has his nice little pasta sauces which i haven't had in a long time uh but sorry i uh so true where my brain went but with this in respect to what the symptoms of someone being at the low end body fat set point so basically what lloyd is referring to is this band of which you have a lower and upper intervention point for body fat where if you try and go beyond those points you start getting uh ill effects essentially between those points you're at homeostasis the body's happy and this can be a bit of a range so when you are below the body fat where your body is happy to be you'd experience some negative symptoms of like diet prep i'm sorry diet prep diet fatigue type symptoms but i do think you can only assess that if you're at maintenance or more than because if you're in a deficit diet fatigue can happen even when you're at a body fat that your body's happy at so you'd want to assess it and maintenance and be there for an extended period of time i can't say how long but probably you want to at least give it probably a month uh to kind of figure out if you are above or below and then if you've given a month you're at maintenance or more than and you're still getting like nagging diet fatigue symptoms like like excessive hunger food focus lower energy lower motivation you're a bit cold uh maybe um i'm trying to think what else like libidos on the low side or you get a blood test and you can see your hormones and aren't in the right place i think all of those um symptoms might be just a bit more than you would like and then you might be a bit leaner than you you should be yeah that i think would answer it for me yeah i think um the only small thing i might add as well is just if it's a consistent thing because i think sometimes we all experience fluctuations with you know things like fatigue and it can fatigue can come from you know many different factors i think um conversation that i had with a client and that i have experienced is some days at the moment there's been a bit of lethargy but one thing that we've got to bear in mind is that there's not much light at the moment you know it's very dark like a day like today that we've had in the uk it's pretty much been gray and dark all day and i think sometimes that can make you feel a bit lethargic so and i'm sure that this isn't the case for lloyd but it's just sometimes understanding that sometimes you do have those days and other factors can play into it so just is there a consistent pattern and is that feeding in with the context of the individual very well said yeah i think you need several of the diet fatigue symptoms to try and like triangulate it to yeah you're too lean um because yeah like hunger that can be mitigated by so many things and like you said actually i've been i was recently looking at uh sad lights sad lights seasonal affective disorder lights because of that like the fact it's been so dark recently and i thought i was getting around it by going for a dog walk in the morning and that being the most important thing and even in overcast day you're getting way more than 10 000 lux in terms of like the the i guess circadian rhythm benefits of kind of getting your light rhythms in check but recently it's not been getting light to like eight in the morning quite often it's still when it's overcast it's really not much light out there and then like you said it gets dark at what time like four yeah like it's getting pretty damn dark and i'm like man like these lights i've got actually a lot of lights in this room that are on right now i almost like 10 lights but they're not strong i haven't i actually have an sad light but it's just like a super inconvenient one so i was looking for one that i might be able to like strap on the desk and like have like shiny on me um and now it's getting dark then it's dark for so long i might have to invest in that just to see but i don't feel like i suffer from that um so anyway that was a complete tangent no but um right so oh no it's your turn yeah is this the final question now it is yeah brilliant so we've got my man jake fit underscore as underscore hell if you had to live the life and could have the physique of any mr olympia who would you choose or would you rather pass and be yourself oh um i'm gonna take this as just for a day not forever so i would be a mr olympia for just a day and i would just do c bum i'd love to be c bum for a day does he count as mr olympia though i know i was thinking this but i'm gonna have to pick an open bodybuilder no i would yeah i'd be i'd be a classic bodybuilder of some description you're not allowed you literally have to pick mr olympia no i don't know maybe i'll let you have c i'll let you have c bum i would like to experience ronnie coleman man like just being the goat like what was it like i mean actually would i hmm could i be him when he's not injured because i wouldn't want to be in his body when he's fucked can you imagine yeah it wouldn't be fun it's like no i didn't wish for this ronnie coleman when he wasn't kind of completely injured otherwise it'd be like someone like a j cutler because he was similar like i just want to know what it's like to be that big like what does it change um so yeah maybe a j cutler because he wasn't completely like disabled unfortunately by the end of his career um or phil heath another really good one yeah but i'd be that'd be pretty cool to be phil heath yeah great questions guys thank you so much for tuning in this one is a bit of a shorter episode because we're recording again and uh so you'll catch us for the final improvement season next week and we appreciate you as always anything you want to leave the listeners with mike no i mean we finish off with our usual obviously we're online coaches and we just really appreciate that if you can like and share this as much as possible we appreciate so much so if you can do us the honor of doing that then grazie grazie grazie as danke make sure as well to be subscribed leave a comment and we just i appreciate the community that we're growing here um there's some regular question askers and people who are tagging us over on instagram and sharing it keep doing that if you're watching or listening right now do it immediately share it tag us both we appreciate it that helps spread the word and um yeah just tell your friends and anyone who's into bodybuilding we love you thank you peace we'll catch you next week peace out later you