 sarmarmadz, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes, undergoes undergoes, undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes undergoes Aaron Busby, your man. Is the Ninja Creamy worth it? Looks good for the ice cream, but is an investment? Yeah. So shout out. Hi, Aaron. Thank you so much for the question. So do you know what? For me, I would say it's a nice to have, but you don't have to go out of your way to go and get it. So is it worth the investment? I think if you've got cash to blow, why not? But if not, I would say, I don't think you're missing a crazy amount. That's just me. I think it depends on the person a little bit more. So I would say you probably don't have to worry too much, Aaron. I would say it absolutely is worth the investment. I would 100% recommend it. It's not even that expensive as far as I'm concerned for what it gives. When you work out the difference of like how much you might spend on ice cream or something similar, like for me, I'm going completely against what Mike has said. I would totally recommend it. Honestly, I've used it every single day, basically since I've had it. And I almost would say Mike has too. I haven't. But have you used it the last week? I had one on Sunday. Oh, I thought you used it like every day. Have you gone off it? Well, I just like I, I not I haven't gone off it at all. But I've just been having other things. And I think maybe a part of it is like, I make my ninja cream is quite big. And it just takes me time to get through it. And I'm like, so I don't know, I, in a way I must well, I'm totally rambling, but I guess I have gone off it a tiny little bit. It's just something that I'm like, no, I'm not too fussed about this. I'm quite happy having like my own stuff. What's your what's replaced it? I just have I have cereal. I have a big bowl of fruity muesli with like some almond milk and a bit of protein powder in there. And that's me and that kind of that does it for me. I actually haven't gone back on it's funny you get into what's it called like trends of foods, because previous offseason cereal was like a big part of my diet. You look at my diet, I don't eat any cereal basically. I just eat like I actually snacker jacks more than I eat cereal. It's just actually that's something I didn't update. That's a small update that I didn't say last week was my weight is still not going up. It's like been the same sort of weight since like October last year. And I can't even remember what my calories were, but there may be like 3600. And now I'm over 3800. I've just bumped them up. The reason I reminded me was I included an extra snacker jack with my breakfast. That's how I got just an extra 50 calories. I was just like easy. So do you have prots with some snacker jacks? No, my breakfast is two clementines, an apple, a my protein mousse, and a naked bar like fruit cereal date bar and three snacker jacks. And a monster and a coffee. My breakfast isn't really a meal. It's just like a amalgamation of different bits, basically. Then I have croats, croats again. And then I have a salad with I've I haven't done my Amazon shop this Amazon fresh shop this week. So my dinners are looking a bit weird. To be honest, it's just loads of random, like frozen veg that I've got. One thing that I am so because I saw your dinner where you had some I think it was smoked salmon on snacker jacks. Oh, yeah. And the sour cream and chive ones works well. So and I was like, oh, yeah, that looks good. So I wanted to try that. I haven't tried it yet. I have the snacker jacks, but I do not have the smoked salmon because I didn't do my online order. I just keep actually that's part of you mentioned last week, my busy week, I was just like, I just I feel overwhelmed. I don't want to book this order in. I just don't want another thing on my like to do list. It just feels like too much at the moment. But my Ninja Creamy has just been a it's just like a core like I like I said, I literally haven't used it unless, of course, I haven't taken it to Charlotte's family over Christmas, for example, like I don't have it then. And when I don't have it, I don't miss it that much. But I like having it of an evening chilling out in front of the TV with Charlotte just as by will say I'm slowly not enjoying as much as I used to. I definitely am seeing that. So yeah, maybe I'll start just input inputting a bowl of cereal, though, that's not kind of a macro like for like, is it? So I don't know what protein it would be maybe some cottage cheese as I was talking to Ali and his check in this week. But that doesn't quite sound as appealing. Maybe with honey. Anyway, I'll get let's go to the next question because I'm just taking it way off track. Huge. Right. So underscore mangy machine asks, What are your go to assessments when taking on new clients? So I think it just is our application process. We first of all, on our website, it kind of takes you through kind of what to expect from coaching. And I can't remember what it used to outline kind of like, hey, get to know us, so on and so forth. I don't know if I've changed it since then. But it kind of gives you an overview of what to expect from coaching. And it kind of gets you a bit of an understanding of who coaching is for who we work with. So you already get that kind of a bit of a pre screening. We recommend again, you've listened to the podcast, you've watched us on social media. So again, if you're looking to apply, and you've watched us and followed us, you've listened to this podcast, you're probably like, yeah, that's that's the guy for me or the guys for me. So you've already we've kind of screened you a little bit there. And then on applying, we have like, for example, we ask if you have any injuries, we ask like short term goals, long term goals, we get a bunch of information about you. So that helps. And then we either most people have a consultation with us. So that's part of the assessment. We'll talk about your background, your experiences. And if there's any kind of red flags, like to know, you're currently severely injured or have some massive eating disorder that you need help with, like if there's anything, any reason or you're like, I don't know, very deep into pregnancy sort of thing, like when we're not the people for you in those sort of situations, or don't know, you have CrossFit goals, whatever it is, like that'll come out in the consultation. Or the other option is we do a video overview of your application. And then really application will tell us because we see your short term and long term goals. And if they're not aligned with what Revive Stronger provides, we're not going to be the people for you. And we'll tell you immediately. I've had consultations, you probably haven't yet, Mike, but you might in future get a consultation where someone is clearly enhanced. And then I'm just like, I'm not the coach for you. And I refer them normally, it's like Joe Jeffrey or something. And it's a very short consultation, I refund their consultation fee like immediately. And it's an easy kind of just refer out. So yeah, we don't have any other specific assessments outside of that, particularly. Anything else you'd add there, Mike? No, I have had one consultation like that, by the way, where someone's a client asked, like, I just need help with my, my drugs, basically, I need someone to guide me as to how much drugs to take. And I was like, I don't know anything about this. So yeah, it was exactly what you mentioned. But no, nothing too much. I think, you know, the application form gives us a lot of really good baseline data. And it really gives us scope to take the consultations where we and the person wants it to basically. So it's kind of almost maybe expanding on their goals, expanding what they want to actually get out of coaching, which is, which is great. And like we've mentioned before, we actually have now started doing a video reply. So for people who maybe don't feel comfortable having a consultation, we will send a video response back to them where we're going through that application form. But no, I think you've covered everything really succinctly. Cool. I'll ask you the next question then from Tudor Bin Dilla. Would you still do bodybuilding if you went blind? And so good, interesting question. And my answer is yes, because for me, that just bodybuilding makes me feel good. You know, if I was to never compete again, I'd still be training in the gym. I love to train. I just absolutely love it. It makes me feel good. It makes my day better. And yeah, so I will always be a bodybuilder. I will always lift weights. It's just what I do. So yeah. I took it a different way because I took it as explicitly competing in bodybuilding. I don't know that I'd compete. But it's such hypothetical questions are so hard, aren't they? Because like in every sense, I feel like, yeah, why would I not continue to do bodybuilding? But I have no idea what it's like and how it also, to some extent depends on the severity of blindness. Like I know some people who are like, diagnosably blind, if you can put it in those terms, but they can still like get around with a stick, for example. Whereas like if you are just like blacked out blind, I don't know, even the practicality of properly bodybuilding, but you still can move your body, right? So you can probably safely do pull ups, push ups, like some sort of machine sort of squat, those sort of things. So I think I'd still do an element of bodybuilding. I don't think I'd invest in into it as much as I currently do, though. Yeah. Yeah, I kind of if if they'd say, would you still compete in bodybuilding, then my answer would be no. But if it was just general bodybuilding, then yes. Yeah, no. Well, well said. Don't know if you've seen it, but Rascol, I think have an athlete who is blind. He's recently done like some really funny skits for the Instagram page. And I don't know if I got it wrong, but it looks like he may even be looking to compete in bodybuilding. He looks in good shape. He's got like good amounts of muscle. But yeah, some really funny skits anyway. That's funny. I am. And that's the epitome of competing intrinsically, right? Because you don't see it yourself. So you're just literally, yeah, yeah, you're in a way you're well, I was going to say you do you're doing it for the love. But then there's still that element of, you know, people might be doing it to place potentially, I don't know. Yeah, it's weird, because bodybuilding is a visual sport through and through. So it's really hard to, I don't even know if I can't even think of if there are categories of like, obviously, there's disability categories and things. Anyway, we can go on to the next question. Well, we're getting on to a whole new Q&A box. So that was the last of that Q&A box. So we're on to the new that new one that you posted this week. And our guy Remy Sarka is back with some questions. So let's see what he says. So Remy asks, if you could be a top professional at any sport, excluding bodybuilding, what sport would it be? The immediate answer that comes to mind for me, Mike, is football, because that's what I played as a youngster. And I got to a decent level for a period of time at it. And that was my passion and love. So I think that's probably the easiest answer I can give without trying to think about it too much in terms of different sports and everything like that. So I'm going to say football. Yeah, so I've kind of got two responses. So one of the answer that came first into my head is golf, because you travel around the world. And you just basically you can travel following the sun. And it's really well paid. And it's also you've got good longevity in the sport. And secondly, probably less injuries compared to something like football or rugby. And also for me as well, I guess I grew up playing golf as well. So there's that element. But then also, I have this kind of weakness for, you know, obviously, aesthetics and the body and looking a bit more like an athlete. And so rugby sevens would be my other option, which is a complete contrast, because it's super, you're super likely to get injured playing rugby. But still just have you ever seen rugby sevens? Probably, but not. I can't, I can picture what they might look like, probably like a wingman, typically for like the, I don't know how many people play rugby on the team. I know football's 11 aside, right? How many is rugby? Is it like 14 or something? So in normal rugby, it's 15 on the pitch. 15, yeah. And but in obviously rugby sevens, it's seven. But it's, the game is only 14 minutes long. But it's end to end, it's like constant running. And they have to be just so fit. It's unreal, because it's just, you're just constantly on the go. And yeah, I was just really impressed with it when I did some work with the rugby sevens team. So yeah, maybe, I don't know, I might swing either way, potentially. Nice. Right. I'll ask you the next question, Mike, from Fra underscore Torta. Since you haven't deloaded in a while, how do you manage volume progressions? Do you creep up volume over time or stay right at your MAV? So I think we're both the same here, where we both keep volume pretty static. We find our MAV, MRV, and we just basically hold it there. And we might make small tweaks. But they're more of a rarity, because we've kind of found that sweet spot. Yeah. Have I said that right? Yeah, I guess to just expand on what you've said, because I think to say that we don't make volume adjustments would not give credit enough to our programming and our philosophies and thoughts behind it. But it's just irregular. So at the start of a mesocycle, volume will be a little down because of having deloaded and be in a very adaptable state in a sense, where not only maybe could you argue you don't need that much volume, but certainly you can't, you're not adapted to it. So you'll just get unnecessary amounts of muscle damage that would impede your ability to perform. So we do start out a little lower in volume, not much lower though. And certainly we aren't aiming for like some hypothetical minimum effective volume. We're certainly not. It's still a good hit volume. And then over the weeks, we'll auto-regulate that up. So after the first month or so, you're probably just adding like a set or so here or there. And then you kind of are at that peak volume, which you could call maximum adaptive stimulus. Oh, sorry, volume. I would call it stimulus because I think that encompasses more things that are important for hypertrophy. And then, yeah, like you said, kind of hang out there. And it might be that you drop a set, add a set, depending on fatigue and how things go. Less likely to drop sets so much, but it might happen if like I didn't deload, but I suddenly backed off some of my quad training for a time with the tendinitis that I experienced. But yeah, like you said, we don't then like ramp up past that point. It's like, I know I'm surviving my sessions now, but, and if I, I could do more, but I certainly would start becoming, it would become unsustainable for me. And I would then have to back off. And I'm like, why force a situation if I don't need to? So yeah, that's kind of how it looks. Yeah. Anyway, that's all I have. That's part of the mistake, not the mistake, sorry, but we would just ramp up volume, ramp up volume, ramp up volume, and then we would just force the deload. So that was like a big, a big lesson for us for sure. Yeah. And also I think kind of with that preconceived assumption, I talk about this on the John Durant podcast of the fitness fatigue model of like over time you get fitness characteristics, muscle gain, performance increases, but you also accumulate fatigue. And then when you're repeating performance, that means they're level because the difference between the two is your performance in the gym. And then if they're level, you probably want to deload at that point. Like you can't repeat performances. Like you're not growing if you're repeating performance. And that's just a really like just not correct way to think about things when you, when you actually think about how hypertrophy occurs. And so we just get to that point and then hang out there versus like you said, yeah, pushing yourself over that edge and just accepting, Hey, I might repeat performance for weeks on end. That's okay. It's really high quality training, really effective, maximum adaptive stimulus type of training. And definitely I've grown better that way versus trying to like force an overreach, deloading and then restarting and having like very easy, less fluctuations within our training. That's what I would say. It's more static as a general approach with some slight divergences when necessary, when fatigue needs to be managed. Yeah. You, and you, we touched on this a couple of episodes ago and you made a post about it, which will probably be a couple of weeks ago now when this podcast comes out, but you know, you talked about your bench press on your Instagram post and you were stuck at like four, you know, was it 115 kilos, I think. And you've been at that weight for weeks and it was kind of, you'd gain a rep, you drop a rep, you gain a rep, you drop a rep. And it's like, Hey, and then you made like, you made a bit of a breakthrough and that, but you were just hung out there for weeks and you were just happy, just staying there for a little bit. And then all of a sudden that adaptation has occurred and you've moved forwards. Yeah. Six weeks. I was benching 115 kilos for five and four, five and four, five and four. I got five and five. And then the next week we go six and five. Yes. That sixth rep meant everything funny on that post, Mike, the amount of like, it's so funny people. I didn't, I made a post story and it was saying how I hit, I think it was 110 or something for one as like in a powerlifting meet after about 10 years of training. And then I hit after 20 years of training 115 for six. And I was just sharing my experience. And just basically my point was, and you get upset if you can't add two and a half kilos every week, it's unrealistic to add two and a half kilos every week. That was literally my message. And then people are commenting like, are like, you're so, so I made a comment, just like basically saying you're weak, even for a general population person. Like there's so many people just digging at me. Like, why are you so weak? Why like all of this? And I'm like, it's so funny. Cause I literally don't care as a bodybuilder. Like I do not care. I don't know if people just thought like I'm specializing in powerlifting for that entire time or something, but I was just like, just some of the out there comments of people just really missing the point of the post is just, was really funny to me. I'm glad I can laugh at it. Cause I think for some people, and that's why I love sharing, cause I've been doing this 20 years now and I love sharing the process because people get like a real life view of what someone who is like going through this is getting, who isn't some freak who can bench, but there's probably people who could bench. There's some people coming on that lift being like, oh, I could bench a hundred kilograms after my first year of lifting. I'm like, well, good for you, but I couldn't. And like, there's so many people that can't even bench a hundred kilos, like let alone me doing 115 for six, which like there's probably a lot of people listening that would hear that and be like, that sounds fucking impressive. It is impressive. It's not amazing, like elite numbers, but there's not many people that can do that. It was just funny to like, social media has just skewed so many people's perceptions, but also just people love to have a little bit of a dig, don't they? It's funny. I wonder if it, maybe it doesn't, but I think also for some people, maybe there's that insecurity as well. And it's kind of like, they often, have you heard of something called projection? Yeah. Where, you know, it's like often they're just projecting either like an insecurity or like, uh, I don't know, needing to kind of boast or show off or whatever. And it's like, yeah, it's just some, something has triggered them in some way and they need to say something about it. And it's like, you know, why? And someone commented saying like, oh, when you do a post like this, it's just an excuse for people to give up. I'm like, that was the exact opposite of what I was trying to say. I was like, keep going because like you are doing things right. It's just plateaus occur and you're breaking into it. Anyway, I've taken this podcast off into a different direction. So I'll ask you the next question, Mike. Yeah. Yes. Uh, going for it. Oh, Julia Zedba. Mike. Oh, it is for you. How do you maintain such a positive outlook all the time that, anything you do think or say to yourself? Oh, thanks, Julia. I appreciate that. Do you know what? I often think to myself and I joke because if I think there's a genetic component to it, because if anyone was to see my mum, her name's Paula, by the way. So positive Paula, that's her alliterary name. But if anyone was to look at my mum, genuinely, she is the most positive person I've probably ever met. And yeah, if you were to meet us both, you'd be like, yeah, there's no doubt you're her son kind of thing. So I definitely sometimes think maybe there's a genetic component to that. And I think they do talk about that with other things as well in terms, you know, personalities and stuff. There is probably a genetic inheritorary component to that for sure. So I either blame or credit my mum. Positive. No blaming. Recrediting my mum. And then I think I just, lots of things really, I think just the information that I tend to consume in terms of, you know, it's my personality to want to do good and to want to think good things of the world. Um, the, the weakness and the drawback to that is that I can have a tendency to be a bit maybe too idealistic at times, probably maybe a bit naive. So I think there is always, for every give me, there's a gotcha, right? Um, but yeah, ultimately it is things like, you know, reading books around self-improvement, reading quotes, trying to just be conscious about trying to be a little bit better. And, um, you know, if I sort of think good things, that's going to help me, you know, feel better at the very least, but then it'll also help me be a better person to other people as well. So I hope that answered your question, Julia. You know, what's interesting for me, Mike, is for someone who I don't have that inherent, like I'm quite positive, definitely. I'd say on the, on the average, I'm definitely that way, but I'm not like you. I can't even comprehend how positive you are. So what I end up thinking, and I'm not saying I think this anymore, but I think there'll probably a time I did. And certainly people like yourself, I would think they're faking it. They can't be that positive all the time. Like they must be like building up all this negative energy in themselves and they're just putting on a front. But I don't think that anymore about you at least for sure. And I think it is just, you, you're just different to me. Like, and I think different and you probably don't relate to people who are very, very negative. You're just like, how can you be so negative? Because I think about it in lots of things in life where I don't know, I see things and I'm like, how could anyone think that whatever that is, is acceptable or the way to think? And like, they obviously think it is. And I just don't, I don't understand it. I don't know why this is a weird, wild example that's just come into my head, but like Brexit, we left the EU. What the fuck? Who thought that was a good idea? Like, I don't understand. So yeah, it's just, I think it's, so I think it just extends to a question of like, it's part of who you are. And I think you can learn from something like Mike has definitely helped me be more positive and I try and be more positive. But at the same time, I don't think you can set yourself to like a Mike standard ever, because that is just who you are as well. It comes back to what we, I think it was in the last episode with Christine's question about posing, you have to be your authentic self because people can see it when you're faking it. And ultimately it drains you as well. So for someone like you, Steve, if you try to be like me, you'd feel drained because you're just trying to hype yourself up all the time. So yeah. And I think, so I think also there's an element of emotional intelligence because you have to know how your behaving affects other people. So if for example, you're someone's baseline, say emotions are a bit more like either level or a bit more, they're a bit more kind of a depressive, shall we say, or a bit more kind of lower in mood, maybe a bit more of a pessimist type kind of bias. If that make, that isn't an excuse to make other people feel like shit. And so you've, I think someone's got to understand how they affect other people and try to modulate their mood a little bit, you know, so that they're not putting people down or anything like that, but still being themselves to a certain degree and knowing when is the right time to, you know, be super critical or whatever versus like, right, I need to channel that. I need to control that a little bit better. Same as being positive. I can't, if I'm like over the top positive, that's going to piss people off. So I have to learn how to taper it sometimes, you know, so you're self-aware enough to know too much positivity can be too much. Yeah, it is. So I think there's always, we've always got to find that middle ground and know when to, when to dial things around. It's similar actually, like you say, with the posing, you can fake it a little bit, but you can't over fake it. So the same here. Yeah. I think that was well answered. You can ask me the next one then. Oh yeah. Oh no. It's for you. Is it? Oh yeah. I'm curious to know more of Mike's bodybuilding journey. Oh wow. Because you've got to be a bit more specific than that. There's like his whole life. I know. Check me out, Mr. Unpopular today. So, well, it's interesting to know where to start. So, I would say, I, so obviously like a lot of people, I think there's an underlying element of, when I was at school, I kind of had quite low self-esteem and I also wasn't sporty. So I didn't play football, rugby, team sports. So I didn't really have that, you know, self-esteem or athleticism. Um, you know, I played golf, but that kind of didn't really tick the box. And I don't know why, but when I got started into training, which was literally that my school had a little after school weightlifting club and I would go there twice a week and my PE teacher would show me how to lift weights and stuff. And that gave me confidence. And that's what got my bodybuilding journey going, basically. And then I then, after that finished and I finished my, uh, A levels, I then went to the gym during the summer holidays and it literally just snowballed from there. Um, and I just continued and continued to where I am now. And I competed in a bodybuilding competition in 2014, same year as you, Steve, um, BMBF, but different BMBF shows, which is quite funny. I didn't do the BMBF. Oh, did you not? I thought you did. They wouldn't let me compete. Uh, what shows did you compete in 2014? The NPA and UKFBA. Gotcha. Okay. Yeah. Imagine if we'd met on stage though, that'd be so wild. That'd be wild. Do you know what's quite funny? I remember you saying to me, cause there was, um, one of the competitors that I stood on stage with, he competed in one of the shows that you competed in 2014. Stephen, no? I think it was. Yeah. So there was, there was something that there was that little connection. Yeah. That's crazy. But, um, but yeah, so I compete. So, uh, I competed in 2014. I then wasted a long time, not just because I was doing, I was, I dabbled in powerlifting and various other things. Did you do it with me? Yeah, I did. Ah. Just one? Just one. Yeah. Same as me. Weird. Again. It's weird. I think my lifts were, so I used knee wraps, not knee sleeves. Oh, okay. And I got a 205 squat and I got a 215 deadlift and a 130 bench. Mike, why are you bodybuilding? You should be like you're powerlifting. And that was in the under 72 kilo class. Those are really good numbers. Did you have a, um, bench shirt on as well? No. Or did you, no, you're just raw from that perspective? Raw. Yeah. What, why didn't you pursue powerlifting anymore? It was just boring for you because those are really competitive numbers, especially back then. Probably not as competitive now, but under that weight class, like my numbers in 2014, mind you, I think I got maybe a 190 squat. So less than you, I only had knee sleeves on, but still. And then my bench, like I said, was like 110 or something in my deadlift. I think I got like 215 or something like that. And I was in the under 83 weight class. So like, you're much stronger than me. Not anymore though. Do you not think you could do those numbers now then? If you trained for it? For like a month, I don't know. Not for a month. I'd probably need a little bit longer. Um, I don't know, actually. I have no idea. I, but, um, coming. You must be able to, cause it's just a skill thing, right? Probably. I'd probably need just a bit of time to work up to it. Um, but who knows? You should be lifting more, Mike. I'm like, what? So my mind's a little bit blown. Those are some crazy numbers. Yeah, I'm a bit of a weird person. Especially because in my head, you're not an explosive fast twitch individual either. You're more slow twitch. But again, those are really good numbers. Like I'm not even like, I did not expect you to be lifting as much as that. I've never done like a 130. Like, I don't know if I could even do 130 on bench now. Mm. All right. Well, obviously my pressing numbers are nowhere near at that level anymore, but, uh, yeah, I've got it on YouTube, but, uh, I, I don't know. I think that again, the good thing with powerlifting is it's not a velocity restricted sport. So I definitely had some, particularly on the bench. I grinded some, uh, yeah, definitely grinded some reps out there for sure. Um, but I've always been paused as well. Yeah, absolutely. I've always been attracted to the aesthetics and the art and that's something because even when I was powerlifting, big part of that, you know, I'd have lots of accessory and assistant stuff. Some, some of the people in the gym, they would come in, they'd do their bench and they'd go home. I hated that. I'd want to do my bicep work, my arm work and all of that. So the, the bodybuilding side never left me. I think it was more a product of the powerlifting interested me because it was the gym environment that I was in, which was a powerlifting gym. So that kind of almost, I think, pulled me into that world. Whereas if I was maybe left to my own devices, I might've just stayed with bodybuilding the whole time. Um, and it was just, uh, yeah, I can't say exactly what triggered it, but I was like, do you know what? I'm going to put my whole focus into bodybuilding now. And that's just where I'm going to maximize my potential. I just wasn't very good at powerlifting. That was part of it, at least. Um, I, it was just, it was too similar to you. It was just too specific and a little bit monotonous for me. So yeah, I did enjoy that. Anyway, we better move on to the next question. So Jared underscore Blythe, he asks, do, do specialization phases only apply when massing? Um, I think not that they only apply then, but I think that's the best case for them. Because when you think about what you're doing, when you're specializing is you're putting some muscle groups on the back burner to prioritize other muscle groups. And if muscle groups are put on the back burner during a diet phase, that could be such insufficient volume to maintain them. And you're just growth potential when you're in a calorie deficit, when muscle protein breakdown is so much higher, depending on the severity of the deficit and how much body fat you have on you and how new you are to lifting, just your growth likelihood is quite low. So, and then if you are newer to lifting, you're not by you specializing probably shouldn't be at that stage. So yeah, long story short, the best time to apply a specialization phase would be in a surplus scenario just because of the fact that that's when you are more likely to be able to benefit from it. And also the cost of leaving something at a much lower volume is not a problem because you can maintain muscle quite easily when you're not in a deficit. Yeah, no, I haven't really got anything to add to that. I think you summarized that really well. Cool. It's all right. We were quite long with, I was, I derailed us on quite a lot of questions. I'm still not over the fact that you are that strong, Mike. It's not going to leave my head for a while. I'm trying to work it out. When was your powerlifting meet, by the way? What year? 2016, 17, I think. I think it was 2016. I feel like I need to also send you the YouTube videos because I feel like I'm lying. I don't need to think that I'm lying. I'm genuinely, I've got them on YouTube. That's what I do. I believe you completely. I'm just like, I'm like, I don't know if somehow it's not, you know why, because you're a grinder, again, more seemingly more slow to which normally benefit from like higher volumes, but that's all counter to like a strong powerlifter type of situation. So anyway, I'll get to the next question. My man Ali asks, what's your current supplement stat, including vitamins, minerals, herbs, herbs, intras? Or is it in the States or Australia where they go herbs? Herbs, yeah. That's Australia. Oh no, sorry. Not Australia. They might do that, but it's the Americans who say herbs. So current supplement stack is, well, whey protein. And I kind of, I've also got a bit of a vegan protein as well. Creatine monohydrate. I have some garlic, garlic, little garlic pill. And I have some omega-3 and zinc, sorry, zinc, vitamin D3. Cool. That's it. Did you say magnesium? No. You don't do magnesium? I don't do, I've flip-flopped. I've sometimes done it, but I haven't really been consistent with it. I don't really notice a massive big difference. Oh, and I did forget one, sorry, ashwagandha. Yeah. Hmm. But you notice, I'm not going to dig into it. It's fine. I'm going to just give my stack and we're going to go from there. So mine sounds almost the same as yours. So I do zinc, garlic. I do a bit of vitamin C just because there might be something there for not getting sick. So I end up doing that. And then I'm just, I'm working them through in this order because I take those in the morning, traditionally at least. Sorry, Ada's really licking herself very loudly behind me. I'm like, what's that noise? It sounds like it's raining in here. Then I also do magnesium, zinc. I have ran out of my omega-3s, but I'd normally taken omega-3 when I'm not eating salmon. And then I have, oh, what are the other ones I end up taking? Ashwagandha, especially now that research came out where it's like, you don't need to cycle it for like, the buildup of negative effects if it can. I'll throw in L-theanine now and then for sleep if I'm feeling a bit stressed or I've had a lot of caffeine that day. I'll sometimes do that because I think that potentially can help with that scenario. What are the other two? I think you might have mentioned one of them. There's two that I took and they're more recent based off Greg's recommendations for health. I mentioned garlic. I take garlic. I've been taking that as ages, but these are a bit newer. Why have they got, is it arginine? Is that one? What about glucosamine? Glucosamine and then there's another one. It might be arginine. I can't actually remember. I just literally, I don't read the, I just pick the pill box up. I know it's the one I want to take. Oh, taurine. That's what it is. Taurine. Ah, yeah. So yeah, taurine and glucosamine, which were recent additions due to chatting with Greg Potter. I think that's it. So I think we, I might take a few more that you don't, but basically the same. And then yeah, the protein powders in addition to that. But yeah, I don't do any, oh, intro workout. You don't do an intro. I do dextrose, creatine. I didn't say creatine. I do 10 grams of creatine and like 15 grams of dextrose in my intro workout. Yeah. I think that's it. I don't use dextrose. I would just have the flavored creatine in a bottle. Cool. Right. So Alex underscore Medina dot S20 asks, random question, lol, but what size of those joggers do you use? Do they run large? I don't know what joggers. I'm assuming he's talking about Rascal. Um, mine are mediums. Um, I, yeah, I don't know if they run large. Yeah. They, they say on the website that just order it as a normal pair of trousers. So whatever size of trousers you normally are, just order the same size. Yeah. Sometimes I need mediums. Sometimes I need large if they're a bit of a smaller medium, but I would say if anything, Rascal are like, if you're like, they, if you're, they fit both. Like if you're, if you're usually a small, but you get the medium, they're going to be a bit bigger. But if you're a large, sorry, if you order a large and you're a medium that any, I don't know what I'm saying. True to size. Right. I'll ask you the next question from Fusilio 11. How to know a bulk should end slash generally how many weeks in a lean gaining phase? Also have you ever went from bulk to mini cut mid mezzo? I feel like we answered something that's similar to that recently. Yeah. So I feel like if you don't have a specific weights cut off, like say if you've got a contest prep coming up where maybe you might not want to go above a certain weight, it might be just more firstly, personal preference as to what kind of body composition you're looking for. So it might be as you're starting to lose a certain amount of, you know, a separation between muscle groups, or just maybe also in terms of how you feel, like you don't feel productive in the gym. Maybe you just don't feel comfortable at that body weight. All of those sorts of signs would be signs that, Hey, maybe now's the time to do a little bit of a mini cut where you can come back to that. You know, what we talked about with body fat settling point that I can't remember the word, but where you've got intervention point, the intervention point, you're coming back to that comfortable zone where you feel good, you can perform well. It's all just to bring you back to that middle zone, essentially. And when you feel like you're going out of that, whether that's too low or too high, that's when you want to just put pause on things and just change, change the phase. Yeah, great. Well said. The only thing I did, in addition to that, he asked generally how many weeks I'd, I like to see a ratio of four to one, at least, like for, for every one week that you cut, I like four weeks of massing on top of that. At least actually. And then in terms of going from a bulk to a mini cut mid mezzo, I have no problems doing that. I've not, I don't know if I've done it, but I can't remember. I can't even remember the last mini cut I took. Actually, I definitely did a mid mezzo last time because it was auto regulated of a morning where I was trying to eat my breakfast and I looked at it and I was like, I can't eat it. That's just my appetite is completely tanked. So talking to the points you mentioned, that's some biofeedback that tells me I need to, yeah, start dieting. Exactly. Right. That might be the last one or maybe second to ask. It looks like a short question. So Aurora.Matterson asks, have either of you ever watched Cyber Six? Short anime-esque show. I always try to get people to watch it. No. I haven't seen it either. Sorry, Aurora. We can probably actually, maybe we can get through all these questions if we do them somewhat rapid fire. Okay. If you've got time. Let's see. Let's put ourselves to the test. So I think you, you can ask the next one. Manji Machine asks, explain your arm training, the frequency, the rep ranges, exercise selection. Okay. So mine's quite simple at the moment because of the shoulder injury. I'm going for arm options that support the shoulder. So essentially it's an elbow supported dumbbell curl. I'll do one standing. I'll do another variation sitting just for a tiny little bit of spice, but it's still elbow supported dumbbell curl and then a preacher curl. And that's just basically it at the moment. And then my hope is to work up to unsupported variations later down the line. So the frequency is three times per week, both for biceps and triceps and rep ranges, mainly between 10 to 20, because that's what just what feels good for me. I think that's pretty much everything. I think I'm almost the same in that my frequency is three times a week, rep ranges 10 to 20. I think I might be more often 10 to 15 recently. I haven't been enjoying above 15 for arms lately and been enjoying just going a bit heavier, just gets it done quicker. And I just don't care for arms too much. And then in terms of exercise selection, I've been a little bit more flexible and let's call it intuitive with my arm training recently, where I just have so much work to get done within the rest of my workout. And there's such a strong point that I've just allowed myself to be more free with varying those more often, knowing that I don't need to worry about managing them as carefully because they seem to just grow very, very well. But I am doing incline curls, superset with Dolben Bell skull crushers, because they just work well together. I've just recently moved to like the CAS single arm overhead tricep extension. And this week, at least I did a single arm beijing curl with it. I was doing a facing away cable curl, like both arms. And I was doing like a double overhead tricep, a rope overhead extension, but I just felt like spicing up. And I've just moved back actually to doing the preacher curl. So I do a preacher curl. And what's the other tricep movement I do? Oh, actually, where did that drop in? Maybe I rotated that one out, but I was doing a dumbbell supported elbow. Sorry, like a humorous, like your upper arm supported offer back extension curl, superset with a easy bar overhead tricep extension. So, and then sometimes I throw in like some push downs of some sort just for funds. But yeah, I'm not as much, there's the only thing in my program that I'll not follow strictly to the program. And sometimes some weeks, I will not log book some of it just star that I've done it and trained hard. Yeah. Yeah. Nice. Cool. Cool. Okay, so hypertrophic underscore chamber asks, reverse dieting should prefer an increase in carbs rather than fat if they are already at a decent level, 0.6 grams per kilo post long diet. I'm completely thrown by the name of this individual. And I want to click on their profile because I have a strong feeling they've created a profile just to be in this group, which I have so many thoughts surrounding it. But anyway, reverse dieting. So I would say maybe a preference for carbohydrates, but I think honestly, when you're in a reverse diet, it's the time of which you're in the largest surplus reverse diet. Sorry. I'm really thrown by that because I was automatically thinking recovery diet because we don't use a reverse diet. So no, I don't really have an answer because we don't use reverse diets. If someone's finished a long diet, if they need to recover from it, like a contest prep, then we go through a recovery diet. So they're in a large surplus. And then if they're the only time I'd use a reverse diet is in a time where I wouldn't call it a reverse diet, I would just be like, they want to continue dieting, but maybe not as aggressively as they were before. And so I would, in that case, maybe preferentially prioritize carbohydrates over fats, but they're just not really something that we use in practice because you're just extending the diet. And so I just call it, you're just continuing to diet if that's what you're doing. Yeah. I did the same as you. I was like, my head went to recovery diet and then I was like, oh, hang on. Was he, what are they talking about here? So yeah. But it's that if it is more of a recovery-esque type scenario, then it's the gain in, it's the increase in body weight, the gain in weight that's going to lend itself to the recovery. How you do that, whether it's carbs or fats doesn't really make a difference. Yeah. So, but if you are using it, I think in a scenario where, I don't know, say you're trying to eat into shows or that sort of thing, then I think carbohydrates in this situation makes best sense. Nice. Final question from the book of Jonah. When doing multiple sets of an exercise close to failure, zero to one RAR, can you repeat performance on two sets with the same load, reps and RAR? I think there is the potential for it to happen with a, maybe a smaller muscle group, but particularly if it's maybe a new exercise and you're learning that movement a little bit better, potentially, it's possible. If it's a movement where you've been doing it for a long time, so you don't have to worry about learning it as such. And also you're really on it with taking it to a close, like you're really on it, then I would say maybe less likely. Something that we both, I think, have observed and I know I've experienced it myself is that maybe sometimes rep ranges might make a difference. So higher rep ranges, sometimes you see a bit more of a drop-off with repetitions, whereas maybe with it's a lower rep range, maybe the drop-off isn't as much. So if the rep range was maybe a little bit lower, like maybe eight to ten, and then some of those other facts were in play, again, maybe it might repeat performance, potentially, is my answer, basically. Yeah, I would say it probably shouldn't, all things being equal, but quite often all things aren't equal. What I mean by that is, for me and you, Mike, it happens very rarely because we're quite expert with our exercises, so there's not like a neurological gain set to set. But I'll have it sometimes, particularly on like pressing and lower rep ranges, where I might be able to match, but I think quite often that happens when I get a little bit more amped up for a set. So it's not all things equal. That's the only time I can really do it. And the reason I say it shouldn't probably happen for someone who's experienced and who has experienced, a good level of skill with that lift is because for the first set, you're fresh. And so you haven't got any fatigue, especially local muscle fatigue. The second set, you have significant local muscle fatigue. And so you're not fresh. So you should see your performance go down. And if it's not, then it puts into question if you change something, or were you not pushing as hard as you thought in that first set? But ultimately, if your performance is going up over time, I'm not too concerned about it. Yeah, well said. Cool, guys. We did it. Yes. Thank you so much for your questions. Thank you, Mike. The listeners obviously want to know more about you. So it's great learning those things. And I've learned how damn strong you are. Maybe I'm going to encourage you to do some powerlifting. And yeah, guys, thank you. As always, as a reminder, we are an online coaching company. We coach people for a living. And so if it's the stage, if it's just a fat loss phase, if it's a muscle gain phase, we're here to be able to help you through that. We pride ourselves on keeping our coaching very personal through our communication with clients. And obviously, we're open-minded, not dogmatic. We are not dictators. We're here to be in your corner and help guide you through that process. So if you are interested, you can apply for coaching. It's always linked in the description. If you've been listening this long, and you're wondering where to ask questions, there's a link in the description for that too. It's the Hypertrophic Time Chamber, which is my broadcast group over on Instagram. And otherwise, please leave a comment. Any questions, you can also leave them there. If you're on YouTube, give us a thumbs up, subscribe, rating, review, all that good stuff. And with that, any other closing words from Mr. Massive Magic Mike? Mr. Massive Mike there. No, just appreciate you guys for listening. Steve will have obviously have an update because you'll be back from Hastings in the next episode. So I look forward to that and appreciate it as always. Cheers, guys. See you later.