 zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura, zafizumura zafizumura z Yeah, good to see you, man. You just cracked open a beverage. What's your, is this your, this isn't the first drink of the day, though? It is. Oh, the first drink, Pepsi Max. Look at that, I'm waking up. It's 6.30 a.m. here in New Zealand, and I'm having a Pepsi Max. People would just have a visceral negative response towards that. But me, the days where I podcast before I go to breakfast, is I do go on a walk to get breakfast. That's one of my habits. I normally have to have something, and I need a little bit of caffeine. It's just a small amount, but I notice it when I'm on an empty stomach first thing. Maybe it's just the carbonation in my mouth, placebo, but it wakes me up. But I don't want to have coffee before I then go have coffee. So this is what I do. I'm here for it. It's the sort of thing I'd absolutely do and have no shame in it. I've definitely told people, or Charlotte's walked in on me, and she's like, you have me at Pepsi Max now? But I have to be honest, I do. I'm that guy. You're not a monster guy, right? Monster energy drinks? No, not typically. I'm not much of an energy drink guy. Yeah. Okay. I don't know why for me. They're obviously loads of people on them. They're a meme for a reason. And they are my thing, a white monster every day. But I was going to expand on, we started the 1%ers chat, but we didn't dive into every route that it could go down. And I can't actually completely remember the ones we touched on, but there's definitely plenty we didn't. The first thing, though, Eric, I wanted to talk to you about was just a thought. I was thinking more about supplementation and making sure it was third-party tested. One of the immediate questions I had in my mind was, are there better and worse third-party testing? Like, you can get informed sport, but then there's like, is it Labdoor? Is it also one? Yeah. And I would be lying if I said I've done a deep dive on each one of the different companies. But even sometimes within the same third-party testing service, you'll see different tiers. Like you might see informed sport versus informed choice. And like if you go to that website, it's the difference between, is it random testing within batches or testing of every batch? And I don't have it off the top of my head. And then the things that they actually test for, it can differ. So I know some of the best ones for like a drug-tested athlete, like informed choice, informed sport, it's a little higher NSF. I don't know enough about the Labdoor one, to be honest. And yeah, there are a few others that are pretty solid. Most countries will have a little information run sheet on their like drug-free sport organization, like their WADA signatory. You know, like if you check out the one in Australia, New Zealand, UK, I think they have little like guidance. They ultimately, of course, kind of have the thing of like, listen, if you take a supplement, there's always a risk. But if you, you know, do these, blah, blah, blah. So yeah. Yeah. I think another thing to consider about third-party testing is that you just want to think about what you're doing it for, right? Because some supplements have a reputation. I shouldn't even say reputation. Have a track record. That's a little more accurately representing the issue of like having high rates of contamination and our safety problems. And others have a high rate of just basically someone putting like their garden clippings in them and they're doing nothing. And others are in a class where you are risking, you know, a potential contamination from a performance-hensing drug, but probably in a very small dose, right? So I think there is a little more nuance to it. Like the reason why I kind of just generally be like, listen, just get third-party testing is the informed sport, informed choice, and some of the better kind of stock standard ones. They sort of take care of it all, all of it for you. They test what's in there and they check against label claims and they also do an assay to see does it have, you know, any kind of ant substances. So it kind of covers your basis. But if someone is not a drug-tested athlete and let's say, like for example, I was just coming across this because someone asked me what are my cognitive supplements that I would recommend because I was saying, hey, creatine is kind of emerging. And I was like, you know, that's actually a good question. Let me look through some of the ones. I haven't looked at this in a while. And I think I was looking at ginkgo biloba, you know, one that you often see like in the pharmacy or like it's the one that was popular like 10 years ago. Nobody thinks about it. It's actually got one of the better profiles for enhancing like memory and things like that. But there's actually some kind of concerning safety data that some of the components of ginkgo biloba, I think it's one of the acids in it. I can't quite remember. You basically want a very low count of that. And the specific form of ginkgo that you want needs to be like medicinal grade, pharmaceutical grade, or you're kind of risking some potential health issues if you look at some of the long-term data. So there's a licensed form of ginkgo biloba. I think it's EGP, some number. I don't remember off the top of my head, but that's like an example where you would only want to buy that, not just so it works, but also for your own health and safety, you know, in that third-party tested form, kind of like the, and it's actually the company that does it, that we talk about licensing, like Curia Peer, Carnison, KSM, you know, 77 Ashwaganda, that type of deal. So like there are, there are nuances to this discussion. And I think ultimately you want to be an informed consumer. But at the same time, if you get some of the larger kind of stock standard third-party testing, it mostly covers your bases. And I know a lot of people are just, they get overwhelmed by trying to go down this rabbit hole and figure it all out. So, I mean, I think it's, I think it's worth, worth your time. Like if you're willing to spend money to put something in your body to hopefully have a physiological effect, I do think you should probably investigate, you know, like what goes into making it and is it have what's in it, et cetera, et cetera. But I also get that that's just not the way the culture is around supplements. Like they're in the grocery store, you can grab a pack of crackers and then you can grab your ginkgo. And it's like, all right, well, listen, if I have to go look up like, you know, which pharmaceutical grade aspect of this is and find a website and then, oh my God, everyone's telling me different things. It's just, screw it, you know? So it's, it depends upon who you're talking to. Yeah, it's, I don't know why it's reminding me of when I got into a bit of a rabbit hole on microplastics and just looking at like, how can I avoid my exposure to microplastics? I was like, oh, I can't. Like it's, it's just doing my best in that regard. Don't have chewing gum if I can avoid it or, you know. Okay. I'm holding up this Pepsi can for a reason. Now here's the thing, Steve. Now I'm going to ask you, Steve, because this is my assumption. Do you think in actual studies that a bottle of 330 mils of Pepsi Max or a can of 330 mils of Pepsi Max results probably in more microplastics being ingested by the person? In my head, the can is made from not plastic. The bottle is made from plastic. So it would, to me, make sense that the bottle would. But some, I have heard somewhere that apparently there's a little film of plastic within the can. So it's like you're trying to get away from the plastic, but you can't get away from it. It's like the glass bottles that the lid on top has lots of plastic that comes off. So it's like I was going out, having my sparkling water and being like, yeah, I'll have the bottled one. That's great. And it's like, oh, it actually has more than the bottles do. So is that where you were going with it? Yep. I'm just sitting there. You know, Trex and I, we did one episode on microplastics and we did our cursory sort of semi-deep dive and we tried to couch it. And then we got a bunch of comments from people who were maybe a little more tuned to this research and they were like, yeah, not bad. So we came on next time, talked about it. And then we basically got to this place. It's like, wow, it's almost impossible. And also the data is actually really not that convincing that it's causing harm in the kind of exposures we're getting in most cases. It's more of just a big question mark. And then more importantly, it's almost impossible to ignore it or to avoid it rather. And I was like, well, you know what, Trex, at the very least, I'm pretty sure my aluminum can doesn't have plastic. And he goes, you know, it's funny you say that because it actually has an inner lining and there's actual data showing that you get more from a can than you do from a plastic bottle. And I was like, fucking hell, you know. I think glass, if I had to guess, probably is the least. And even though it has that cap like you mentioned, so does a plastic bottle, right? So like it's, I would think if there's a tier list, it probably goes like glass, ironically, plastic, and then aluminum because of that lining, which is, it's bonkers. So yeah, it's, some things are not worth trying to avoid. Yeah. So anyway, this feels somewhat similar. It's not quite the same. But I did have a thought, at least for the person that competes. I was thinking about myself a little bit here, at least. And obviously, like you said last time, getting third-party testing is insurance. I was thinking, well, as a natural bodybuilder, you very may well get tested when you compete. So that's a real time you probably want to be third-party testing your supplements. Maybe you don't even, like that might even outrule some that you are taking potentially in your off-season when testing is less likely because there's just not a huge amount of off-season testing. So if it is like a financial thing or whatever it is, at least the time to be most on top of your supplementation and third-party testing is when you're actually competing. That made, that's at least where I was like, okay, that's the time I'm definitely going to make sure to go fully into the third-party testing. And then, yeah, other times, I mean, my supplement list isn't very large anyway because it's funny. I think there's two sides of natural bodybuilder. The one who's like, wants to take every supplement under the sun if there's any research indicating that it might do something beneficial to muscle growth somehow, they'll take it. And then you get the other bodybuilder who is like, not really wanting to take any supplements because they're like, ah, like, it just doesn't quite sit well with me. I don't know. It's ingesting something that's not, I don't know, you have a bit of a naturalistic fallacy mind. And I'm a little bit more towards the, don't really want to mess around with anything too much, which in this situation is in my favor. So, you know, the funny thing is I started as one and became the other. And, but, but not, meaning that I have a very small list of supplements. I used to have a very large list of supplements, but it's not because of the naturalistic fallacy. It's because I've read so much about supplements and one, they barely do anything. So, you know, and I've also seen enough instances where there's an issue with them, where it's not just, it's not just a waste of money. It actually causes problems. And then finally, the nail in the coffin was the rates of adulteration and the increasingly, increasing sensitivity of the testing we do for, for PEDs and actually having athletes fail, who I know inadvertently due to supplement use. So it's kind of like, what am I like, this isn't even a, I'm not even sure this is a 1%, you know, it's, it's, it's a gamble on something that's a 0.1% that could actually harm me. You know, like there's a classic example I use. There was that, the test booster that came out a while back that had like really good results. It showed like 30% increase in testosterone. It's pissing me off that I'm forgetting the name of it because I used it as a classic example multiple times. It's too early. I need a cognitive boosting one. You remember the test booster? You know, you know what I'm referring to? I would have thrown it out if I knew it. Sorry, Eric, I don't have it. I'm trying to not get frustrated to try and think about it. You're going to have to go look it up now. I will. I'm going to look it up as we talk because it's like, there's a classic tale. Um, yeah, there was like one human study. They weren't lifting weights and it just looked at testosterone and it lifted at 30%. And then they replicated the study and there was no change. And then they replicated it again. And there was a decrease in testosterone. Everyone's like, what the heck? You know? Um, and I can't remember what it is. It's like, it's a supplement, not a name or a brand, isn't it? Like, I know the, I know what you're referring to now. Cause it's, it's like, that's, it was a great example of not to jump, on something too soon. Exactly. It was, it was the one that I use for, um, like why it's good to be a, a later doctor. And, um, I can't quite remember it. It'll come to me at some point. I'll be looking at it up while we're talking, but the, it was an example of how we jump really quickly at the earliest thing and think like, oh, I'm, I'm getting, it's almost like, it's like, there's this feeling of scarcity to it. And, and like, we have to jump on it now. And there's this new data. We only have one study, but Hey, like I gotta make gains now. And it's just like, what, like, what are you really hoping to get out of a 30% increase in testosterone? Like that, that, that was only in people with low T, you know, like this is just not a, this is probably not viable, you know? So, um, anyway, I, I think when, when you're, when you're looking at this stuff, a lot of it just comes from, um, marketing, you know, and like our, our feels around it being something that is super, like important. Um, and I think, I, I know most people have grown up, at least our generation, or even a little bit after it is, it's so embedded in the bodybuilding industry, the idea of supplements, that it's kind of like, well, whatever. And, and like, you got to do it and it make, does make a difference, but it's just not really the way things work when you look at the data. And there are enough instances where people actually do see a negative impact. Like, like for example, you know, I was talking about, um, you know, the supply chain issues and the safety data on ginkgo biloba. Like I would actually rather have someone not take it than take one that is not from that licensed source. Cause it would probably have a net negative effect on their health. And like, if you look at someone like kind of a parallel group, I would say to the way kind of bodybuilders operate and, and like, you know, you, you position bodybuilders. I want to take everything, even the shred of evidence. Cause I want to get every gain I can. And there's kind of this fear of missing out kind of field. That's propped up by, by marketing. If we just shift to our, you know, some people who appear to be like us, like the, the people are trying to win the health Olympics and live forever. The longevity kind of biohacker crowd. Um, they do the same thing, but with like longevity supplements, you know, and these are things that I think are also quite risky sometimes. Like if you, if you look at all the things that are trying to manipulate an impact and like, you know, cellular regeneration and all this stuff and things that produce growth. And like, they're trying to, they're looking for specific targeted physiological effects that mimic drugs from supplements. And they're like, well, this one's just come out. Sure. I'll buy it. You know, I'll try, I'll give it a shot. And I honestly think that when you, you lean towards the, I will do anything and everything, even to the shred of evidence. And you're kind of a pioneer in terms of putting stuff in your body. And if you're doing that for health, you're probably actually harming your health. Like if I said, I guess like on, on, on net balance, you know? So that is, I would say for a natural bodybuilder, um, if you're looking at the stock standard stuff, like we're talking creatine, caffeine, um, let's say a pre-workout that is basically just, you know, caffeine and a few other things, whey protein and a multivitamin. I think the risk of harm is relatively low, relatively low. If you're buying just kind of your stock standard supplements, um, but the risk of potential contamination, um, and maybe having something that's a little more than caffeine in your, in your pre-workout is reasonably high. Um, so you're, you're potentially at risk for, for drug testing failure, especially if man, that, that pre-workout really hits, you know? Um, I would say though, if you're shifted towards the, I take anything and everything potential way, it could build muscle. I heard some, somebody on Reddit say, Hey, I think I got more, more gains out of this. I'm going to buy it as long as it's not on the banned substance list. Then you are probably risking not only a much higher chance of, of failure, but actually putting something in your body that might, to be harmful. Um, the things that you can find that actually have been like an FDA investigations of like, okay, so what is being used in some of these? Like there's weight loss drugs where they put in laxatives, you know, there's, there are like defunct pharmaceutical grade drugs that someone might have a supply chain access to that will do something or in, in and around the realm of what this is supposed to do. and we'll put it in there. So for example, erectile dysfunction drugs going into quote unquote, uh, testosterone boosters or the same product when it's marketed as a libido enhancer or sexual health thing, you know, you're taking a pharmaceutical grade drug and you don't know it. And there are some pretty significant interaction effects between, um, erectile dysfunction drugs and other medications, you know, they're, they're messing with like blood flow, you know? So I think that's just all things to consider. And with all of that air that I just wasted and, and, and, and time I spent, I finally did find it. And I'm so mad that I remembered deaspartic acid is the one. Yes. There you go. Yes. So yeah. Is that still deaspartic acid? I haven't heard about it. You will still see it typically in the kitchen sink kind of formulations for testosterone boosters. So yeah, it's still out there. It makes the rounds for sure. Yeah, absolutely. Some of you touched on there, not to do it too much of a deep dive into this. I actually remember talking to Ben Escro about this, uh, when we talked about supplementation on the podcast, but it's that marketing thing because supplement companies will sponsor like professional athletes, uh, bodybuilders often and often enhanced to then don't worry so much about this because they're not tested for it. And then they'll push all of them as like, these are the things that like, look at me. These are the things that are helping me get to this. And they're not lying necessarily. Uh, but it makes then other people think that those supplements are doing much more than just supplementing their progress. I think that's often where it comes from. And they're always incentivized natural or not. If you're sponsored by a supplement company, often you're incentivized to like you have, um, a code and you get a kickback from that code and what have you. And it's, it's unfortunate. And also I guess if you're sponsored often, you get given all the supplements, um, like for free essentially. And then it's like, of course I'm going to take X, Y, and Z because, Hey, these guys just give it to me. And then they're like, Hey, you should be, if you want to be doing all your ticking, all your boxes, you need to be taking this, this, this. And then that does make you feel like you're missing out. If you don't understand that context, which when you think about it for a second is really obvious, but it doesn't always feel that way. If you have a trusted influence. Yeah. Yeah. I kind of have a flow chart. It's like, is this supplement have the highest quality data on something that directly measures the outcome I'm interested in, not a proxy for it. So not does this boost testosterone, but does this result in enhanced muscle gain? Right. And if, if I have high quality, ideally meta analytic level data that indicates that is the case. Cool. Next step. Can I find a version of this that guarantees that that's actually what I'm getting and in the amounts that are proposed and that, you know, it doesn't risk contamination or have a safety issue. If yes, go for it. And if it's literally anything else, then the answer is no. And that's why the list is basically creatine. You know, so there's, there's not a whole lot else, you know, there's very little. So, um, it's not sexy, but it also means like, Hey, let's just move along. You know, like, like you got a lot of other things where you can put that energy, that focus and that time and investment into researching what might work and planning. So, yeah, absolutely. Yeah. Saving people a lot of money, to be honest, because you can spank a lot of money on these things. Uh, something I did want to ask you about, Eric, and I don't think I've ever heard you talk much about polygraphs. I don't know how much, uh, you're kind of wanting, you'd be open to talk about it, but obviously when I was thinking about, oh, like supplements being contaminated and failing a test, it then made me think about polygraphs because the WMBF use those. And obviously I talked to Bob Bell about them and he's very confident in their use and thinks they're incredibly useful. And I think a lot of the time people don't understand how they're used with the WMBF. They just think of a polygraph that's on like Jeremy Kyle or whatever those shows are, where it's like this like kind of joke and it's used as just like entertainment, but it's, there's much more to it. But is there anything that I'd love to hear your thoughts around it? Cause obviously it isn't 100% infallible. Uh, I don't know if you, what your general perspectives are on polygraph testing. So I'll tell you straight up, I'm not a polygraph expert and I actually would love to truly do research on polygraph. I'm actually interested in getting a polygraph and then trying to replicate what is done in natural bodybuilding and just getting someone who I know who is enhanced and having them be like, Hey, I just need you to be in the mix of this, this randomly ordered sample that comes to this polygrapher and just lie, you know, try, try to get past it, you know, uh, and then have it mixed in with a bunch of people who are, uh, at least ostensibly, you know, not, uh, not lying. And, you know, there's, there's always going to be an, an inability to, to fully, fully know for sure whether a study like that does what it's supposed to do. Because what if someone who says they're not actually on drugs enters your study and they actually are. But I also think the, the risk of that is like, like who, who does that, right? Like I want to join this study to pretend in an anonymous way that I, I get no reward for, spend my afternoon lying about something that nobody cares about that I won't know. And I will be de-identified and, and then aggregated into a group average. And for what, you know, there's, there's no, there's no incentive, you know, I guess you could just, you know, take the Batman meme and be like, some men just want to see the world burn, you know, but, um, or, or slightly influence the study of 50 people by being one, the one person who, who lied, you know, but anyway, I think that would be really interesting. I did do a cursory look at this way back in like 2013 or 14 and looked at some of the data on polygraphs. And what was really interesting is that some polygraph studies had extremely high accuracy rates and others were, were not as high. And if anyone's ever taken a polygraph, you know, the Steve, so it's more for the audience. Um, it is delivered by a practitioner and that practitioners is ideally trained. And they typically come from a background of law enforcement. Uh, in the United States, there is actually a, uh, a certification for polygraphers. I think that you have to have, if you work in the department of defense, um, and I have a unique background of the polygraph because when I was in the military, I, I did one enlistment in the air force and I had a job that required a security clearance. Um, you had to get tested regularly. Um, I think it was on an annual basis to keep your security clearance. And they basically asking you, Hey, are you trying to sell shit to foreign companies, uh, companies, countries. Um, and it was, uh, you know, it's like an hour long polygraph where you have a, someone contracted or working for the department of defense and counterintelligence, trying to make sure that you're not selling, you know, military secrets to the Chinese or Russia or something like that. So I think it is very telling that if you look at, um, government contracts across, uh, intelligence agencies and within government, um, in, you know, major first world countries, uh, that the polygraph is pretty ubiquitously used and that there is a certain training standard. Um, and I think it's also telling that it's not viable in most, uh, legal systems. Um, and then understanding the difference between those two things and why. So, um, legal standards have to do with, is it potentially manipulatable? Um, and it has to do with, you know, case law and precedent, not necessarily scientific validity or reliability or accuracy. And the government doesn't necessarily care about that. They're not looking to prosecute you. They're looking to say, I don't want to give you a security clearance and give you access to this stuff because I'm not, I don't trust that you will not sell it, you know? Um, but those same, interestingly enough, those same polygraph results, which you might've failed, if then you were to get, say, prosecuted and brought in and charged with espionage, they couldn't use that necessarily as evidence against you, even though it was something that they would have revoked your clearance for. So that's just a little bit of background. And I can tell you, I've taken polygraphs for, uh, three different, uh, bodybuilding organizations, and they're definitely not all the same. Um, in some cases it's like, uh, clearly cursory and it is really just a deterrent. Uh, I would say because people, uh, know they have to, to take it and they're like, you know what? I'd rather just do a urine test because I know I can beat that. It's, it's, it's an, it's a known unknown, right? You know, but I, I don't, I don't want to deal with this polygraph thing. Um, I've been in and out in 15 minutes and I knew that was a joke and I was like, well, okay. Um, but I do think that when you have a longer polygraph, you go over the band substance list together. It is someone who is, um, experienced and knows what they're doing. I think it is surprisingly effective. And one of the things that, uh, an actual polygraph polygrapher does is they take you through it multiple times. Um, refine the questions. They, they go through it. And I think the main thing to know is it, it's, it's measuring physiological responses. It's not, it's not a lie detector. Um, and they use your kind of quote unquote baseline assessment compared to, uh, you know, what the actual, uh, responses when you're asked specific questions. And they typically do some control questions. They ask you to lie. Uh, it's something that you both know is a lie. Like, have you ever said anything to someone that you regretted? Or have you ever, you know, speeded or something like that? Have you ever lied to someone you care about? Thing is that you have shame around probably will have a physiological response. And then what does it look like when you lie about it? I think those elements of a polygraph, I've been in ones where they don't do all of it. Um, and it is clearly just cursory. And I think like just to reiterate, those probably are just a deterrent, but I think the actual polygraph that they do to hire people in, you know, department of defense jobs and to maintain security clearances, they're much more challenging to quote unquote beat. And I have seen some studies from like the eighties and nineties where there's like a hundred percent accuracy rate in the polygraph for when they could detect deception. And it probably has more to do with the practitioner and their skill and their knowledge of how to apply it. Um, so I think the, the main thing I'm actually concerned about is like false positives, you know, more so than not catching people. I'm not sure that's been super well explored. And I don't know enough about polygraphs to really ensure that is the case, but, um, essentially like what they're looking at is you seem to have this, this adverse response, the same question. And if you've, I've never been in a situation where in the polygraph, I've had one of those to then get investigated further, but I have had people I know who are drug free who have gone through that. And for whatever reason, they have an initial weird physiological response to one specific question. And then they dive deeper and either doesn't, it doesn't come up the next time and they go, like the shifted in their seat weird or something like that. Uh, or they were thinking about something else when that question came up. Um, and it wasn't replicable, um, you know, or we dive deeper and they were like, you know, I was actually thinking whether my pre-workout supplement that I had, that I used to take back in a day had it, but then I realized it was actually 11 years ago. So I'm good. You know, things like that come up. Right. So, um, I think like those things are, are important. So when, when I take a polygraph, I, I'm someone who just gets like kind of a little bit anxious about it. I think everybody does, but I disclose stuff that, that is, that is silly. So for example, um, melatonin in New Zealand until recently, uh, melatonin, you can only get via prescription. Right. And there's a clause in the WMDF that says any prescription drugs for bodybuilding purposes. Now, I don't know if trying to help my sleep is a bodybuilding purpose. It could be construed that way. And it is a prescription drug, but I bought it in the States where it's not a prescription drug. And I took it. So I'm, I'm in the polygraph and I'm like, all right, you sound like me. I just need, exactly. So I just had to tell them this, right. Another thing is, and I've, I think I've talked about this on podcasts before is, uh, I, I'm not natty on my hair light. Right. So I do take, uh, one milligram finasteride like every other day, or I think Monday, Wednesday, Friday, the lowest possible dose. Um, and I have noticed it has helped me keep my hair because I do have, you know, male pattern balding. Um, and that has previously been a banned substance in, in some eras of drug testing. And I think it's because it's a masking drug, you know, um, I, I don't actually recall the, the argument, but anyway, it's, it's a prescription drug, not for bodybuilding purposes, but I do take it. So I disclose that. And they're like, I don't care. You know, so it's, it's things like that, um, that, that I have to bring up. And I also bring up like, Hey, more than it's actually 20 years ago, you know, in the pro hormone era, I did take the, these pro hormones before I was even competing before they're banned. And it was for like, you know, weeks, but, but nonetheless, I, I get it out there in the open just because I don't want to have an adverse reaction when they ask about something like, you know, uh, have you, have you ever taken a, uh, you know, a prescription drug for bodybuilding purposes? I know that if I say, Hey, listen, I'm taking, you know, for that's right. It's not for bodybuilding purpose. I'm taking melatonin. I'm, I won't flag. So I've like kind of cleared my conscience, right. Even though I don't need to. And then when I get to anything around pro hormones or, or pro steroids, um, they can either modify the question to say, you know, in 10, in 10 years or something like that. Um, so that, that, that's what I do every time I take a polygraph just because I understand how it works. And while I know I'm not, you know, breaking the, the, the banned substances, it's, it's, it's more about, you have to make sure that your physiological responses is not indicative of what could be considered as lying. So that's why I'm a little curious about the false positives. And that's, that's about all I know, Steve, but I, I really do want to actually do research on this to figure out to what degree is an effective, uh, drug test. Um, and the last thing I will say, and I, I actually be curious to get your perspective because you and I have both been coaching for a long time and around the scene a long time. I've actually never heard of anyone successfully attempting to and beating the polygraph and natural bodybuilding. Um, but I have seen multiple instances of people passing the polygraph and then failing the urine test later. And almost every single time it has come from inadvertent doping and supplement use to go back to our prior topic or not knowing about the, the banned substance list. And in fact, one of the things that I do think has prompted that shift in the last several years, it's been going on for a while now in the WMBF of the polygrapher, actually making sure that you read the, the banned substance list, you go over it together, you sign it, is that there were multiple instances. I remember one in 2010 where the person like took the poly, but they didn't have an extensive effort to go over the banned substance list. And they thought they were fine and they were taking a pro hormone and they were like, but I didn't know it was banned. Yes. You know, they weren't lying almost. exactly. Yeah. Until you pee in a cup and you literally like that day you were taking, you know, a banned substance. So, yeah. Oh dear. Uh, I relate really hard to everything you said there. And yeah, my concern is that false positive. And that's always like, just, uh, I think everyone, every competitor that takes one, like if you're a bit anxious, it's probably because you are worried about that false positive. So I would be like, I'd love further research and investigation into it. But yeah, similar to yourself, Eric, cause I have, I failed a poly before when they asked a question in a specific way because of my, uh, kind of testosterone therapy use after my head injury, because they asked if I'd ever taken a banned substance. And then I was like, yes. And they're like, why did you say yes? Like you were meant to be a natural body. I was like, well, I told you I took like a testosterone for my head injury, which was prescribed so on and so forth. They're like, Oh, but you're like, it's not for bodybuilding purposes. We'll have to rephrase the question. So then it like, I was in the polygraph room for like over an hour and, uh, it was very stressful for me. Cause I was like, Oh my God, this is, I'm not going to be able to compete. So I do the same thing with you as you. I just always tell them ahead of time, like, Hey, this is my background. It's been over 10 years. I was prescribed. It was never for bodybuilding purposes. Cause the same thoughts come into my head with you, Eric. I'm like, well, I didn't even realize at the time it would help bodybuilding. Cause I was just not healthy. And I knew it was for those reasons, but in hindsight now I'm like, Oh, that probably did help my muscle growth for a period of time. Uh, but probably didn't want to get hit by the van in the first place. That probably was not good for bodybuilding. I mean, it helped your muscle growth relative to having a car tank. Yeah. Like I don't, I, I think that this is a way too black of a white view of it. I know, I know you get shit for this. Everyone does. It's, it's, it's ridiculous. Like you were in a deficit, you know, like it's, it's not a valid, uh, critique. That's, that's, that's ignorance or trolling at best, dude. You know? Um, yeah, it always, but anyway, it's like those things is like you, they play on your mind, right? Cause you start, you overthink like, as a certain individual, you overthink these things. You either, again, you tend to be like one way or the other way with it, where it's like, ah, super chills. Fine. Like I know I'm natty, whatever. Also, everyone becomes super neurotic by the time point they get polygraphed. Like, I mean, let's, let's not forget this is at the, you're, you're taking, I don't envy the polygrapher because like you're dealing with a relatively stressful environment. And, you know, you've got a lot of people who are neurotic by nature, just in bodybuilding, and then they've starved themselves for eight months, you know? So, and they're about to get on stage naked. So I think it is, I would imagine someone's like, oh, natural bodybuilding show, man, I used to do this with murderers and they get in there and like, oh my God, these people are head cases, you know? I thought it was worse with serial killers, but no, this, this is crazy, you know? So, yeah. I did have a, it's still on the top of a one percenters. Are there any, you struggle with Eric? Is there any things you wish you could do? Like, is there anything like lifestyle wise you can't do because of like constraints or is anything you just personally like, Hey, I wish I could, I don't know. I drop that caffeine, but I got to have the Pepsi Max in the morning, even though I don't know, it's too much caffeine. It's not really very much caffeine, but you know, is there any you struggle with personally? Um, so there's one that's very obvious. I can't get the kind of quality or quantity of sleep that I would ideally want, you know? And that's one of those things. It's like, it is something outside of my full control. You know, I have, I've, I got the orange, orange tint glasses. I sent you the picture, you know, for, for the audience. Eric's in the blue light blocking crew. Yeah. I wear it for about one to two hours before I go to bed. Um, I have earplugs. We have, uh, extra pains in our glass. We got the noise canceling, um, you know, glass. I have a, I have a, it's called a, it used to be called Uler and I think now it's called the chili pad. So we have a temperature controlled pad. So I'm straight biohacker maxed out there. Right. Um, we got AC units, you know, installed. So our bedroom, we can keep the temperature controlled just the way we want. Um, I don't have a TV in my room and you know, the, I use my phone to help me fall asleep, not to like be a distraction. I have a Kindle app and I have it on the, the, like the, the lowest darkness or the lowest brightness setting I can read with, with the, the tint. Um, and I try not to do a work that is at all stressful. I think, you know, the interesting thing is the data is coming out in this area. The blue light itself is, seems to be a smaller negative signal than what you are doing on your phone or what you're doing on a screen. So if, if you told me I'm answering stressful email, emails for work at 10 PM, but I've got blue light blockers on, or I'm watching cat videos, um, that I'm, that I, that I love to watch and make me happy and chill. And I'm getting all these nice dopamine release at 10 PM, but I'm not wearing blue light blockers. I would take that every time. Um, so yeah. So unfortunately I, I, I do, I think quite literally everything that one can to enhance their sleep quality to quantity, but I still probably sleep. seven hours on good nights and like six on others. I do well on that, but there are more nights than I would ideally want. And when I, when I hear about other bodybuilders, first, if they're younger, I just not like whatever you're, we'll see when you're in your forties. Like me, you just don't sleep as much. It's just the way, the way that goes. That's an age related thing. Um, you get up to pee. And then if my mind's ruminating, I have trouble falling back asleep. You can, I do things like cutting off my tapering my water down. So I don't have as much likelihood of getting up to pee. Um, so I do a lot of things, but I am kind of just rate limited. It seems, um, I've experimented with a lot of different, this is one area where I experiment with supplements. Yeah. Is this just, do you think you're just not a very, is it, you're not a resilient sleep sleeper? Like there's just some people like, for example, I know Greg Potter, like my guy for sleep. He's got a PhD in this thing. He is not a good sleeper. Whereas I have like Mike Chalice, like when he hits the hay, he's out for the entire night and he could have like done all the things that you think maybe are wrong, but he's a great sleeper. So is that what it is for you, Eric? Yeah. So I fall asleep easily, but I don't stay asleep. I typically wake up in the middle of the night and it, I think it has very, very much to do with like, what is my current workload and how much do I have on? Um, but sometimes I'll wake up in the middle of the night and my brain will latch onto something like, you know, you really mistreated your first girlfriend when you were 17. And I'm like, really? This is what you're going to do to me right now. And I'm, I sit there like thinking about how, you know, like, oh man, I like, what should I have done? Or, you know, and I'm just like, and I can sit there objectively and go like, this is my brain's doing, you know? And I'll put on like a really soft podcast, put it underneath my pillow so I can barely hear it. Um, or I will, you know, try to read my book. Um, so, you know, like this is, this is something that I've been essentially dealing with for seven or eight years, like my mid thirties onward. I've just wicked in the middle of the night. And if, if I didn't wake up in the middle of the night, my brain would just be, you know, having whatever stress dreams, which is fine, I guess. But, um, yeah. So I would say I'm not a very resilient sleeper or I have become that because I used to just conk out no problem, could sleep anywhere. But I think that was just a young man version of me. So anyway, that is the one I probably struggle with the most. And I would say it's okay. It's not something where I would say I have bad sleep, but I don't have good sleep. And for someone who feels like everything else I'm able to optimize, that does frustrate me. But I also know that it's not in the same category as my training program or my nutrition or my activity, the things that I have full agency and control over. So I don't let it get to me too much. I think a lot of it is just neurobiological. There's not a tremendous amount that I can do. I've optimized it to the degree I can and the constraints I have. So it's like it is what it is. The only other one I would say is – No, I appreciate it. The one that might be interesting – Yeah, because it's outside of your control. So it's not like you struggle with it, but not because you struggle to adhere or implement something that would make it better. It's just the fact you do everything and still it's not quite where it should be. Yeah. I would say the only thing that's more in my locus of control that I don't always quite get right is, I think, perhaps, knowing when to pull back a bit, which I'm getting better at. But I think as of late, as I've come to realize, like, how I feel and the amount that I could perform, like, there's no – I'm not – I don't think there's any direct – I'll put it this way. I haven't completed a sentence, and I promise I will. The data actually indicates that if you can get through the work, it's probably going to have a beneficial effect rather than potentially taking away. And I think I was a little more conservative in the amount of work I was willing to do and the effort I would put in based upon how I felt because I thought that there could be more of a direct negative effect. I'm like, actually, you're doing so much, you're slowing down your gains. And I think that is still an outcome that appears to occur, but it's because of indirect effects like burnout, injury, things like that, overuse, stuff like that. So I think now my tendency is to get to the point where sometimes I tip a little bit too far over into a bit of overuse. And then I pull back, and I notice I have this – the way my joints respond to this is, like, once a true tendonitis flares up, I'm like, damn it. Like, I could – if I had pulled back a little bit earlier, this would have gone away in days. And now I've pushed over and ticked over, and I actually have a little bit of, like, tenderness in my shoulder. I've actually got quad tendonitis. Oh, I've actually got, you know, golfer and or, you know, tennis elbow. And now I'm, like, six weeks, and I have to train around it. I do that less than I used to, but now – but it's still more than I should, as I guess what I should – what I'm saying. And I'm just, like, that's something I'm just not as good at, at gauging with this kind of new perspective. Because I've had to recalibrate. I was probably erring on a little too conservative. And then, unfortunately, I got rewarded for just being, like, I'm going to do everything and just blast myself and grind myself to dust. And I was, like, oh, fuck. I was, like, five pounds heavier on stage, you know. So, like, I think that was good, and it wasn't. Because now I kind of have this perspective of I'm not sure how much left I've got to get. There's no downside. I'm in my 40s. So just fuck it, you know. Keep pushing the chips all the way to the center. And, like, right now I have – I've had quad tendonitis for the better part of February and March. And it's – and yesterday I was just like, you know what? I'm finally getting it back on track after doing BFR and doing hamstring curls before I do quads, which I had to change my schedule to do because it seems to help. And also doing heavy, slow training and then doing tempo and doing, like, leg extensions before I do, like, leg press and doing isometrics on them and then changing the angle. So after doing this for, like, two months and working around it, now they're resolving. And I don't really think I actually lost much stimulus because I find a way – like, you can make those things also serve a hypertrophy purpose. But it'd probably just be better if I'd, you know, eight weeks ago just been like, oh, let's take a deload like I am now, you know, when I've got, you know, multiple joints complaining to me. So that's probably the one thing that I'm maybe still learning to do with this new perspective, Steve. I relate so hard specifically to that because I also have quad tendonitis. Yeah, I've been basically kind of navigating it for months and months. And it was just this past week, I just let that inner ego bodybuilder get in me. I was like, I want five plates a side on the hack squat. I've been running that a few weeks. And slowly my knees had been like, I was like, it'll just adapt to it. It'll be fine. And it's like, no, like, I definitely pushed that too far. And now I'm in the same boat as you, slow, controlled, doing these things. I've actually had this TFL discomfort, like strain. It's not at the point where it's stopping me train now. But I did BFR, I think, for a month for all my quad work. And that was really not fun. It was like a novel at first. But after a while, you're just like, God, I really wish I could just do some normal training. So, yeah, I feel you on that. I'm not the best at putting. I always push if I'm a little bit sick, but I'm like, oh, it's above the neck. And, like, I can go and perform. I'm going to go and perform, even though it probably prolonged the sickness by, like, a week maybe. But I'm like, who knows? Maybe I can still train. If there's a will, there's a way. So, in some ways, I think if we're driven that way, lots of the time it's a real plus. Like, we're being that person that, if they're that way and they're always looking for an out, they're always looking, oh, my knees aren't a bit happy. I'm just going to deload. They always default that way. I'm like, ah, that's probably not great. Similarly, if you always are way. I'm just, at least you're, I think that's slightly better. I think people tend to get better results that way. But, like you said, better to be slightly back from that. And then, similarly on sleep. My sleep, thankfully, I'm a pretty good sleeper. I just know if I go over 200 milligrams of caffeine, I know that will start. My sleep won't be quite as good. Like, from great to, like, good, basically. But I'm very good at normally adhering to being less than that. And then the other one I'm really not very good at is I like eating close to bedtime. Not, I've got better at this. But that's one of those things. I think it's like two or three hours is a good time to, like, abstain from having any decent hit of calories. But I like having my dinner. And then I have, like, my Ninja Creamy prior to bed. And that's, it maybe comes to about 1,000 calories within three hours of bed. And I know that's, from the data, probably not the best. But I then do, like, the sated sleep questionnaire. And I'm like, man, I'm nearly a 9, 10 out of 10 on that. And I feel well rested. So I think I'm lucky I kind of get away with it. But ideally, I would not do that. So I definitely have some. I don't know if there's one, actually, I'd be interested to know. You mentioned cognition, actually. For yourself, is there any, like, tools that you use for psychology, meditation, anything that you do on that front to kind of, I don't know, help recovery or what have you? Because I've certainly looked into and I've tried some apps for meditation, but it's never become, like, part of my routine. And I've always had friction with that. So that's definitely something I struggle with that I think probably would help me. I do visualization before lifts. That's something that I got from powerlifting. I would envision myself hitting the lift before I would do it. I think the data on visualization is actually extremely clear for performance. Not necessarily putting on size, but, you know, one leads to the other. When I wake up in the middle of the night, I do try to, I don't focus on my breath. This is, I'm weird. Like, every, and this is why I don't use the meditation apps. Every single meditation app out there and all the process, they start, well, we'll just focus on your breath. When I focus on my breath, it becomes this, it changes for me in this automatic thing of just watching your body do it to, like, I feel like I'm now consciously controlling my breath. And it makes me breathe weird and it makes me anxious and I hate it. So any breath. I do the same, Eric. Okay, good. I like to ventilate. Yeah. Everyone I've talked to, I'm like, this is terrible. I hate this. Like, I do not want to think about my breath. So I have not yet found an app that works that way. And I do have a background in knowing how to meditate from, like, martial arts when I was a kid and being part of some Eastern practices at times, you know, in my spiritual exploration and my youth and things like that. So I don't need the apps, but they're good reminders because they'll pop up. So I've never been able to be super consistent with meditation, so I almost use it more as a, just a when needed type of thing when I'm struggling to sleep. And it sometimes works kind of what I do. Like, I don't know if you've ever noticed this, but if you, like, close your eyes and kind of look at the back of your eyelids, you can kind of just see some shapes that form or that your brain thinks are forming and, like, kind of these amorphous, weird, dark colors. I may sound like I'm a crazy person as I say that, but I just let my brain find shapes in whatever is there. And that feels like an automatic process, very similar to how it's supposed to work with breathing. And I just try to focus on that one thing. And each time my, like, something that is anxious in my head pops up or I'm, you know, thinking about, like I mentioned, being a shitty boyfriend when I was, you know, in a junior in high school or whatever. I go, you know, okay, I acknowledge that and I let it go and let's focus on the shape again. So I use meditation to kind of prevent excessive rumination when I'm in the middle of the night, which is really the only time I ruminate. Like, if you were to talk to me day to day, like, if it's something that's not in my control, it's like, it is what it is. The only times I really tend to ruminate is when I'm in conflict with someone who I care about. And I'm like, I really want to try to solve the conflict and I won't be able to even go to sleep. But that's something that in those cases I might try meditation as well. But yes, as far as general cognitive things that I do, I have kept gratitude journals at times. But I think that journaling eventually led to that becoming more of just kind of a regular practice of trying to think about what I'm grateful for and reflecting on what went well. And that's something like Barb and I, when we go to breakfast in the morning, we kind of incorporate that into the things that we check in about and talk about. So some of the kind of the more concrete examples of cognitive or wellness behaviors, I'm very thankful and fortunate that I've been able to then integrate them into my life. But yeah, besides visualization for directly for performance or like in training to try to enhance what I'm doing, that's pretty much it. Actually, one more thing, Steve. You talked about BFR. Like when you know you have to get in and sit in for a set that is going to be 40 reps and you're going to have intense burning, you're going to be cardiovascularly fatigued and you're going to want to leave your body. I do get semi-meditative and I just kind of go into like this pain cave. Like I'm like, here we are. We're going to accept the pain. It's just pain. It doesn't mean anything. And it's just stay there until it's gone. You'll be fine. And then I kind of focus on just like one thing. And I typically turn music up really loud just so that I can't think of anything else. And I just focus on the music or actually, this is weird. I focus on the pain. Does that make any sense to you, Steve, as a way of dealing with it? Yeah. You're kind of feeling it in the muscle. Yeah. That way, at least it feels semi-good in a sense. It does make sense. Yeah. So like I think a good one, a good example for me, like leg extensions and leg press for me create just a ridiculous amount of discomfort and pain in my quads. That's just like, I don't know why it feels that way. I think it makes me want to jump out of my body and it kind of gets fight or flight going. But like if I go to failure on like hamstring curls, I recognize that I'm getting that same kind of pain and sensation, but I can push it all the way to the point where I'm like barely able to even like do a rep and it's fine. Same thing with most other muscle groups, but there's some like biceps and quads. I'm trying to think of others that really make me want to just, like all my body's thinking I'm getting injured and I got to stop. And so I have to find a way to keep going. But yeah, something about bicep curls, not as much, but quads primarily is the thing. So when I, you know, dig into a leg press set that I know I'm going to take to a potential 10 or a nine, I just ironically focus in on the sensation of my quads burning and let that just kind of become a thing that I focus on. And it makes it, I'm not putting meaning or narrative into it, but it's, I'm just making that the one experience that I'm focused on. And I'm like, this is just pain. Embrace it. You are pain. You'd love pain. Like I say some pretty weird shit in my head. And I'm, you know, vocal and I make sounds and I might be like going along with the music. I'm not normally that guy. Like I'm not a Lane Norton type of trainee, but when I do a high rep leg press set to failure, I'm probably disturbing people around me a little bit, but it's what I have to do to get through it. So yeah, I, I can relate to that. A saying I have, I say it to myself and clients for those reps, like let it be hard. Like it's meant to be hard. Like don't embrace it in a sense. Yeah. Yeah. Kind of embrace it, but I'm definitely the same. And similarly, I don't know if this is maybe I haven't thought about it with many other people, but definitely quads is the one where like going into those failure repetitions is particularly just horrible. Like my body really doesn't want to do it, but yeah, like you say on everything else, it's, it's really not that big a deal. Uh, yeah. The only other kind of, I guess, psychological thing I do is I don't know how you count reps, but this has always helped me is like chunking sets up. So if I have like, even if it's 10, if it's a heavy set of 10, I'll be like five, three, two, for whatever reason that really helps. Uh, versus, or even like I might count up to five as I do it in different ways to count up to five and then go five, four, three, two, one, like, but never just straight counting one, two, three. It's very rare that I'll ever do that. Uh, cause that's no good, but. Cause five, four, three, two, one is 15. And, and that helps me get to that. You know, like if that's the plan number of reps, you know? Yeah. I do stuff like that. Absolutely. You have, I don't think you've been tattooed in a while, but definitely tattooing taught me that I can't always just like, like, I have to let it just be really uncomfortable. I have to kind of get into a meditative state. Cause it's just like, I once did like really like grip the tattoo chair and just try and grind through it in that way. And I got such a horrible inflammatory inflammatory response from that. Like my hand properly swelled up. And then the next time I went, I was like, right, just breathe deeply. It's going to be okay. But I definitely think tattooing like not eight hours straight, but like a day of tattooing. And then actually I've done it back to back, uh, which that's definitely helped my pain tolerance a little bit. No, yeah. I had the, I have, uh, one very small tattoo, one reasonably large one, and then a big one that, you know, I think most people have seen my, uh, progressive overload tattoo on my left pack. Milo. And yeah, Milo holding the bull. And yeah, that one, because of a fair amount of detail, this took a long time, you know? And, and yeah, I, I find, um, once you have just, it's really acceptance, you know, and there's actually a fair amount of really interesting research on acceptance. Um, some of the most successful weight loss, uh, maintenance studies have used what's called acceptance-based therapy. And what it is, is essentially having the person go like, I, I hate the fact that I can't eat as much as I normally want to. And then this may be my life forever, right? I may have to control my calories. I may have to count calories. And I think most people, when they're dealing with something they struggle with, um, but they focus on, on like the, I'll just, I won't even use a comparison. We'll talk about weight loss. The weight loss phase itself, it has an endpoint. It has a goal that you're excited about. Um, and you have a vision of what it's going to be and you're seeing progress as you go. This is a fundamentally different thing than maintaining that weight afterwards. There's no, there's no reward at the end. Um, there's no progress. There's often opportunities to rationalize and it is forever. So there's no part of you that can convince yourself that you get to ever eat more. And if you do, then you feel like you have to correct and you feel deprived and all that stuff. Most humans just don't want to think about at all because they can think about the thing they're liking, you know, that this weight loss phase, and then they put off and sometimes never even think about the weight loss maintenance. And that's a big part of recidivism and weight to regain. But, um, one of the most successful strategies for, uh, weight loss maintenance is what's called acceptance-based therapy. And you basically face all of that and you go like, all right, what if I had to eat 400 calories a day less than I wanted? I had to regularly at some point just monitor my weight to make sure I'm not relapsing. And I have to sometimes be hungrier than I want. Um, but I could maintain my health and keep this body weight. And the goal of that type of therapy is to regularly face it and get to a position where you can say, yeah, I'm, I accept that. And you go through the stages of grief related to it. It sucks. You're not happy about it. And you get on the other side of it and it is, yeah, this is the life that I am choosing. And it, it, it leverages your autonomy, um, but truly it's facing it. And there are versions of that that exist for a lot of things in psychology, uh, like pain management. And it is in an, it like elements of stoicism, if you want to talk about philosophy. And I can tell you as someone who's experienced like loss, um, you know, when my, when my father took his own life, obviously losing the relationship was a, was awful. But what really was hard to get over was losing the possibility of our relationship ever changing, you know, getting the connection with him or resolving prior conflicts because he's gone, you know? And that's something that I, I didn't anticipate. I didn't think about it. Like, it seems obvious now that I say it, but I lost the possibility of the future. And, and that was something that I had to really just get to a point of acceptance with, you know, I was like, all right. So I have kind of understood this and, and I'm not happy about it. And it, it, it, it does like when it comes up and I think about unresolved things with my, my, my father, it's like before it would just be like this insurmountable. Because I hadn't accepted it. And it was just like, I either put that away, don't look at it. Or it's just this, this, this thing that I'm just like railing against. I'm in denial, you know, because I've my whole life he's been there. So I, a part of me just can't even understand that that'll, that'll never happen. Um, and it was almost, almost separate. Like there was, oh my God, he died. That's tragic. And it was under terrible circumstances. Well, almost like the separate thing of, oh, and, and there's no, there's no changing this relationship. You can only, you can only work on yourself. There's nothing you can do between the two of you. Cause that doesn't exist. Um, and that was something that I kept like, you know, no, don't look at that, put that away. But ironically, once I had accepted that, that was the reality and gone, like, I can't do anything about it. What can I do? I can get right with that internally and understand it as best I can and, and move forward. Now, when it comes up, it doesn't, it's not crippling, you know, it's not debilitating. It's, it's just, it's something you accept in your life. And I think when we think about a lot of things that we've moved past that we're not happy about, uh, we've accepted it. You know, um, a really good bodybuilding one was that early on in my career, when everyone was like tracking macros and they wore them like their, you know, like, like, like their, their religious code on their chest or their bumper sticker or whatever. However, I noticed like, what the heck I'm, I'm dieting on very low calories. It takes me a long time to get lean. I'm doing a crap ton of cardio and fat loss is very slow. And man, my quads aren't coming in. Like I was comparing myself to other people and prep was extremely hard and I had to crush myself is what I felt like compared to other people. You know, I'm watching like Alberto diet, things like that. And the message here is not that I had it harder than them. It was that once I had stopped railing against the idea that my calories are supposed to be higher, I shouldn't have to do this much cardio. Something isn't right. My body doesn't work. I'm not built for bodybuilding. And, oh, maybe I don't have the genetic stuff we've talked about more on like kind of the muscle building side, but just the challenge of prep. Why does it take me nine months when it takes someone else six to get to the same level of conditioning? And once I just went, okay, listen, do you like bodybuilding enough? And is the disruption to your life sufficiently manageable that you don't care? You will just do what it takes to get to the outcome you want. And I went, yes. And I remember that moment where I was just like, I don't care. You know, it's not that bad. I'll survive. I've done it a couple of times. And then, man, what shocked me was that every time after that, Steve, I prepped, it's been easy compared to what it was in 2007 and 2009. And easier each time. 2011, 2019, 2023, this last time. And it's not that it's not hard. It's just that it doesn't matter. Like, I'm fine with that. I've accepted it. I'm good with it. And it's no more hard than it has to be. And I don't attach a narrative to it of this is harder than it should be, which makes it feel infinitely harder. So I think that is something that has been really important for me. And it's also helped me when I've had injuries and bodybuilding. So acceptance is an incredibly powerful tool. And I would say that's out of all the things we've talked about for like, you know, psychological or mental things is probably been the thing that's been the biggest game changer for me. Yeah, that makes that makes so much sense. Immediately thoughts come into my mind that people immediately relate to is like people looking into all the hunger hacks. It's like the biggest hack is just accepting hunger as part of the process or the one a lot of bodybuilders know is like when they're struggling with prep, it's like you chose this. No one else chose this for you. So just accept you chose it. Or if you're choosing not to do it, then choose that. Right. But that stoic philosophy is so true. It's again, in bodybuilding terms, I think back to when I started, I was like, I really don't have the structure for bodybuilding, so on and so forth. What can I do about that? Well, I can build out my quads. I can build out my lads, the delts. I can kind of make that structure part of me. And then kind of outside of all of this, but one that was I was struggling with for a few years coming back to hair was my hair loss. And I kept like I was just overthinking it and spending way too much time investigating various things I could take or thinking about going to get a hair transplant. And at the start of 2025 or the end of 2024, even I was just like, screw it. I'm taking control. Gone. And I was just like, if I'm happy with it gone, then I don't have to think about it anymore. So like sometimes by just taking control for me, at least has been really, really helpful, but also accepting it. So I know I like I once I put out like a story on my Instagram, I put out all the volume and I was just like, I accept the terms that like I'm willing to put in this amount of effort because a lot of volume similar to yourself. I kind of need and can do lots. I was like, I just accept that that's what I got to do. I don't look at it begrudgingly and think, oh, man, I have to get through all this list. It's like, yeah, if I want the best results, I'm willing to do this. So I kind of, yeah, I think your framing of acceptance that obviously we can easily apply to bodybuilding, body composition can be applied to so many areas in life. So I think that's a great lesson. And we should probably wrap up there because I'd no doubt, Eric, you're hungry. And Barb is going to be waiting for you to go out for breakfast. And I have even more of these one percenters, but they're kind of evolving into like just general bodybuilding practices. But I'm enjoying this kind of theme or topic that we're spanning over several episodes. So thank you so much again for doing these with me, Eric. I can't believe that it was another month that flew by. I was like, oh, I'm already back chatting to Eric. It's here. But I really am enjoying these. I know people have been really enjoying them. So thank you guys for tuning in. Any last words, Eric? No, I think remind me if you remember in a month from now that we should talk about some of the resensitization data and the data on like taking breaks and coming back. Pretty interesting stuff. If you don't have, you know, Jake on pretty soon to talk about it along with, yeah, like Dr. Zerdows and I were looking at it in our group. Because it's almost more kind of evidence around the whole idea of ultimately you grow the most with the most area under the curve of hard, you know, stimulus. And sounds like it's confirming my thoughts of where I've been moving to. Yeah. Well, really quick, I'll just say this. I'll say this. You know, like the Ugasawara study where they take time off and then everyone reports it is they got the same gains over like six months. If you actually look at it, the percentage changes did not favor the group that took time off. Like they were, while they weren't significant, I wouldn't say they were equivalent or similar. Like there was a, the continuous group had around like a 18% increase in triceps growth and around like a 29% increase in pec growth. And then the periodic like retraining group was more like 15% and 23%. And it's the kind of thing where it's like, yeah, they, they, they, they like regain some lost tissue each time. Um, which also helps us understand like what is resensitization. It's actually not resensitization. It's you can regrow lost tissue faster, you know, but you have to lose the tissue in the first place. So it's actually not an efficiency hack as it's often been presented. And if that study had probably ran for a year, I think we probably would see significant differences. So it's like, it's good to know that if you have to take a bunch of time off, um, that you can regrow that lost tissue and, and, you know, retread that old ground quickly for neurological adaptations, maybe some of the stuff that we're understanding about, you know, epigenetics and maybe, you know, uh, myonuclei, but ultimately it is like, if you just look at the total exposure to stimulus over time that you had in a career, that's probably going to be the thing that's going to dictate, you know, how big you are. Um, so yeah, just more, more evidence that, uh, you just need to do more no matter what and just give yourself quad tendinitis like Steve and I. Cause that's my saying, train as hard as you can for as long as you can, as often as you can. Uh, I think that was it, but, uh, yeah, thank you so much, Eric. I know I'm, I'm interested to dig into that a little bit more. And again, thank you guys for listening. We'll catch you in the next episode.