! N underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore underscore hair because I think I probably had hair last time we talked. I think you did. I was thinking that too. And I took it off last year. Just because it was like too much to fuss or stylistically you like the shaved head better? What? I got to a point where I was thinking about it so much. I was just like, it's cause like I'm researching different like finasteride, midoxynil hair transparent. I'm in that boat right now. Yeah. I'm talking about it all the time. I was just like, you know what? I'm just going to take it off. Like I keep joking to Charlotte that I'm going to just like shave it all off one time. And I did it back in 2017. Actually, I did it cause I was competing and I was like, Oh, every bodybuilder when they step on stage, just shaves their hair off. And I did it not to this length. And even then I was like, it was really receding and it's just continued to, and you know, you notice it more than anyone else as well. People probably don't see it. So I was just like, Hey, what's the worst that can happen? It can grow back. And ever since I did it, I think it was the start of 2025. Yeah. So I just, ever since have just kept it. It's not really grown much longer than this. Interesting. Yeah. I think that's the way to go. Right. Cause then it just eliminates that basic anxiety you have all the time of like, Oh, how does my hair look? Does our people noticing? I started to get the hair thinning when I began TRT, like a year, a year or so into it. I started noticing like that my scalp was thinning out. Other people didn't notice it, but I noticed it. So I, I did the same thing. I was researching. I did the, the hymns, like the finasteride and that kind of seemed to keep it at bay, but like the shedding, at least it didn't really bring it back. Um, and then things pivoted cause my wife and I decided we wanted to try and have kids and I had to come off the testosterone and onto some other stuff and blah, blah, blah. It's a whole thing. But then I also had to come off the finasteride cause that affects fertility as well, potentially. So now I'm kind of in that limbo zone of like, okay, is there like non-medical treatments, herbal thing, you know, I'm sure everybody goes through this and you just sounds like you just went through it. So I'm in that right now. I'm like, what can I do about my hair that I'm not thrilled about? That's not going to like interfere with this fertility planning. Oh man. Yeah. It's a lot. So funny. I don't, I think there's most guys I think deal with it, but there is a subset of individuals who just have thick hair and they're like, I don't get it at all. How are you kind of conscious about your hair? Who cares? Shave it off. It's like, you don't care until it starts going. And I had so much of it at one point and I was like, oh man, now I wish I'd like dealt with that better when I had it. Uh, with the, can I ask about the, so the fertility side and stuff, how's that all going for you guys? Are you, um, it's exciting that you guys are going to be a good job. So plenty of kids. Yeah. Yeah. So, um, we're, we're, uh, my wife, I don't think she'll mind me talking about this, but yeah, we're, we're thinking about, we're trying to do IVF. Um, uh, and my test, you know, because I was on the TRT, my fertility was just like crushed, uh, basically producing nothing. Um, and so I reached out to my urologist and was like, Hey, you know, uh, this is the situation we want to have kids. And he was like, okay, I got bad news for you. The best path here is to get off the testosterone immediately and then switch to, um, HCG, clomid, uh, drugs to restore your sperm production. And he's like, it'll also, you know, encourage your natural testosterone production as well, but you won't, you won't feel as good as you do now on testosterone replacement therapy. Um, and so that, that was the route that I went. And there was a few months where I was in that like low T zone again. And I had not felt that way in a while and it was fucking miserable. Pardon my French, but I was just feeling every little inch of that. Luckily he was able to adjust my medication and got my testosterone back into like the normative range. I was at like 500, 600. So I wasn't feeling quite as crappy as I was like below 300. So that's good. And then, um, I've been doing that for like seven or eight months now. Um, the, the HCG in particular, I don't know how it is in the UK and the United States, they really make you jump through hoops to get it. It's really expensive. They like the procedural and like, they just make you wait weeks and weeks and weeks and weeks. The insurance doesn't cover it. It's like a whole big rigmarole. Um, anyways, not trying to sound whiny here, but yeah, so I've been doing that. My, uh, my sperm is finally kind of more into like the normative range. I also have a varicocele. So like, I don't have great fertility to begin with because I have plumbing, plumbing issues. Um, so, but now my sperm's looking good. And so we're looking to be in good shape for, um, IVF. So we are, uh, actually going to have a meeting with our doctor, uh, this week again. So it's going pretty good. Uh, I wish you guys all the best with that. I was so ignorant to, even to the point, I think when you're younger, you just assume, oh yeah, everyone's going to have kids. You can just ask, oh, what, like, why haven't you had kids? Are you going to have kids? It's like, actually, that's a big question. And it also presumes a lot in terms of the facility, the health of the whole thing. So yeah, I wish you guys all the best with that. Cause I know that that could be tough. And it sounds like it's already been a bit of a tough ride, to be honest. Thank you. Yeah. It's been a bit tough. And like right now I'm also trying to, and I know this might sound silly to your audience because they're, they're health and fitness freaks, but I'm also trying to like cut back on like my alcohol consumption, which is something I maybe don't do the best job of in my day-to-day life, which so just like a lot of lifestyle adjustments kind of towards the fertility end of things. It's been, it's been interesting. I've learned a lot. It's, it's cool. I'm hoping to go back on the TRT later once the fertility stuff is done. But for now it is what it is, you know, and it's going okay. Going okay. Good. Yeah. I was going to ask, cause last time that was, I think about two years ago, that's, you hadn't been on TRT that long. So that still continued and has been going well for you. That was amazing. I loved that. I wish I think about it all the time. I wish I could go back to that because I don't feel as, I don't feel as good. I mean, I feel okay. I don't want to sound like I'm complaining, but yeah, I mean, I felt like amazing back then. But it's, you know, it's just like a sacrifice that you make for the things that you want. That's the way I'm looking at it. It's just a trade-off. I want kids. This is what it takes. You know, I wish I would have had a little bit more foresight in planning on this issue, but it just kind of is what it is, you know, and you just do the best that you can with the cards that you're dealt at the time. But in a different world, I would have maybe done it. I would have been more strategic in my like pharma and drug use before this fertility stuff came up. Yeah, I guess that's, you kind of, I'm presuming here that the doctor didn't say before you went on TRT, hey, are you considering having children? Because you might want to kind of get that done, dusted out the way first. They did. It just wasn't really on our radar at the time. Sure. It just was not. We were kind of, we had, we had been kind of just pushing it back. Like, I think a lot of people are in a similar situation where you have like work stuff or personal ambitions and you're like, oh, I've got to work on this. I've got to work on that. I don't know if I'm ready to have kids. And I don't think you're probably ever ready. And at some point you, you know, like I'm almost 40. I'll be 40 next month. Mel's in her mid forties, right? Like, and then all of a sudden you kind of go like, oh, we got to either do this now or it's probably not going to happen. Right. So I, I feel, feel sympathetic and empathetic for people in that position who maybe want kids and then kind of ended up in the similar situation of like pushed it off, pushed it off, pushed it off. And now it's like, oh, I don't even know if it's an option anymore. Yeah. I really relate to that situation. I think probably a lot of the listeners do as well. So yeah, it's kind of one of those where I was always like, oh, I don't know if I do want kids and same with Charlotte. And so we didn't really ever pushed for it. And we have a dog and like, we like that. And then it's like, things happen in life and it's like, oh, like that can get taken away from you. Even just out, like due to age, you can just suddenly be in a position where it's like, oh, time has flown by. We've been so invested in our careers. It's like, oh, okay. That's not an option anymore. And then you have to decide what you want to do next. Or like you've gone down that route of IVF and so forth. Yeah. Time just gets you at some point, right? Where you're just so focused on your own world that you forget like, oh, I actually have to really work to make this happen now. It's not just like a, oh, let's have kids, right? Like let's, you know. So yeah, it's been fun and interesting. I've learned a lot about a lot, how all this stuff works, especially on like sperm production. I had no idea. I just thought like you were just constantly churning out sperm all the time. Apparently that's not true. You kind of have like big blooms of sperm every like three to four months or so. And so that's why there's like a big delay when you start a fertility treatment like Chlamyd, HCG. It takes months and months to build up. And that's because you kind of have, like I said, these like blooms of sperm that happen like on a quarterly basis. So you see kind of like a delayed effect over time with the improvements in the fertility medication. Oh, wow. Yeah. I had no idea about that. I just, what did I hear recently? You probably, you know, Brian Johnson, the kind of live forever, don't die guy. Live forever guy. Yeah. Yeah. I heard it. He was saying how he's doing this kind of sauna treatment, but he's icing his testicles and that seems to have really increased his sperm count. And I was just like, wow, that's a rigmarole. There's like a, man, I've been doing some consulting work with some other, some other fitness organizations. Right. And it's amazing how many people flock to those, I'll just kind of use quotes like recovery strategies type things like the saunas, the cold therapies, the this and that. And these people like, don't even train at all. They don't do anything. Like, what do you do? Why are you in the bath house? You need to spend more time in the gym. What is wrong with you? Like there's been a couple instances lately where I've been trying to help people with on the fitness side of things. And I go, there's, there's zero fitness in all recovery. Like it's backwards. We got it. Like you need the fitness to warrant the recovery. Right. Um, and that kind of stuff is, is, is a good example. I think he actually exercises fairly rigorously, but, um, a lot of people don't. And they spend a lot of time doing those, like, you know, sauna type treatments and stuff. And it's like, what are you doing? Misallocating your time and resources here. So it sounds more fun. Just like sitting in a sauna than going training muscles really hard in the gym. Right. Right. I think they feel this impression of like, oh, I'll sit in the sauna and like fitness and health will infuse into me somehow. Right. It's like, it's not how it works. You got to go get it. Um, yeah, it drives me nuts. So I, when people, I kind of, I try not to be, uh, too judgy, but I kind of eye roll a little bit when people are like, oh yeah, I'm doing the sauna, I'm doing this. And then it's like, okay, what's your exercise and nutrition look like? Yeah. And then they're like, oh, don't ask me about that. Yeah. How many cities are we smoking every day? Oh, you've just got back from Australia too, right? It's how long have you been back? A few months or is it weeks? Uh, I think a little over a month now. Yeah. So we did, uh, we went to Singapore first and that was cool. Second time there for me. Um, we did a seminar and some talks out there and then we bumped over to Melbourne, Australia for a bit. And then we did, uh, some talks and some work with the RP crew over there. And then I stayed and did like another week of just like work with some of the fitness groups out there too. It was really good. I love visiting Australia, man. They are a, they're just like a fun group of people to hang out with. They're a riot. They're just like, they're kind of like, it's kind of similar to the vibe in America, but more, um, more silly, more fun. Like they're willing to jab at you a little bit more. People don't take themselves quite as seriously. Uh, so it's, it's really fun. Uh, and Melbourne's a really cool, beautiful city, lots of interesting things to do out there. Um, so we had a great time. Yeah, it was really good. Got, I love, I love doing the in-person stuff. I love being able to like do the Q and A's and just the one-on-ones and having people say, I've been running into this problem with my training or this problem with my recovery strategies and just kind of helping work through some of that stuff. Um, and it was great. It was awesome. We had a really good time out there. Yeah. I'm glad to hear, uh, see it and hear it because yeah, I think the one-on-one stuff or the kind of in-person seminars, obviously we used to bring over Mike every year. We've had you over and I'd love to bring that back. It's almost like since we, I don't know how many years it hasn't been now, like at least a couple. And it just feels like it's not something that's going to happen again. But I think I'd like to pick it back up because I think similarly, you'd like to do it. I'd speak to people and they're like, yeah, I'm game for it. It's just, it's a lot when I always wonder if the demands there, but I guess you had good numbers turning out to the seminar and things because like you can get all the information online. Like I know with Mike, it was a case of, well, he can spend hours recording a video and it can reach millions or you can come here and it costs a lot of time and money and it's just not worth maybe the trade-off always. Yeah. Yeah. And I think, you know, a couple of things to build on that, right? I think COVID kind of like crushed that scene a little bit where they're just, people weren't doing like the in-person seminars quite as much because of the restrictions in various places and travel restrictions and blah, blah, blah. And then even as it came back, it seemed like it just kind of fell out of favor, especially since so much is available online. Like you said, what I have learned, and this is maybe more of like an RP specific thing, is that people don't come to the seminar necessarily for the content. And they come to meet Dr. Mike and like get a selfie with Dr. Mike, which I think is great. I'm not, I'm not judging at all, but I think that's kind of a little bit more of the vibe now where it's more of like the, the personality, the man, the myth, the legend, um, maybe rather than like, I, like you said, I could probably get the same content even from the same person online somewhere, but it's like, they want to hear the jokes. They want to see the presentation. They want the whole experience and the selfie. And, you know, so I think it's, there's a little bit more of that. I think, I do think that people still enjoy having a, an, I don't want to say an expert, but like somebody who's knowledgeable about something and troubleshooting issues with them. I still think like, you know, cause you can ask ChatGPT a lot of questions, but most people run into some kind of real world issue where it's like, okay, I work a night shift and I'm having a hard time organizing my training and my recovery or whatever it is. And just being able to like ping pong their ideas with somebody, or even sometimes just about hearing somebody validate what they're already thinking, they find really, really valuable. Yeah. I definitely agree with that. It's, you can only get so far with ChatGPT and at the back of your head, you're always thinking, well, can I trust it completely? It's I kind of, whereas if you're talking to someone like yourself, James, with like decades of experience and recovery and working with people in person and like you've seen real world and you've helped people get through things. It's, it's quite different, but I definitely agree. Name draws a lot of people in with Mike, especially now he's like absolutely exploded. I said that every time I even think about him, it's just, he's everywhere more and more, which is crazy. It's wild. It's wild. How's that been for you? I'm thrilled for Mike, right? So like for me personally, I don't want that in my, as part of my life. But I'm thrilled for Mike cause I think he's worked hard and he enjoys it and it's a good fit for him. So I was kind of blown away on this last trip, right? Cause in the United States, I feel like it's, it's become more natural. Like if I'm out with Mike, we'll be at the grocery store and people will be like, oh my God, it's Dr. Mike. Right. But that's kind of like our, you know, our home domestic base. This last time we were in like Singapore in the airport and people were like, you're Dr. Mike. We were walking around middle of, you know, the city, Melbourne and young people were just coming up like, oh my God, it's you. And I was like, this is so trippy because Mike was my, is my friend who I've known since college. Right. So you kind of watch this person that you're close to go from, you know, just normal guy to like super famous. Everyone's recognizing him off the street. So I'm thrilled for him. It's not like what I would want for myself personally, but for him, I'm, I'm absolutely thrilled. And he certainly earned it. Yeah. It's, I remember, I think maybe the first time you guys came over or around that sort of time, Mike was suggesting like, if James, you wanted to be big on social media, you could, you've kind of got the personality for it. You're funny, like very intelligent. You just, you just have to put yourself out there. But clearly if anyone goes and check out, I'll have your Instagram linked in the description. If people go check it out, it's, it's clearly not a passion of yours and something you want to dive into, which is totally fair. It's good. You know that. I go in phases where I kind of like feel like, all right, I should probably try a little harder here. But mostly I just like re share like funny things that I think are funny, like stories and stuff. So it's mostly stupid. My, if you go on my Instagram, it's not particularly informative. It's just mostly dumb, stupid stuff, but I'm trying. It's just, oh yeah, it's, it's more, it's more, it's less natural for me. It's more work for me. I think I also just have to like disconnect my like emotional attachment to some of this stuff too. And just sometimes I should just post ideas out there and just let them exist and not get mad when somebody inevitably is like, you're a Nazi. Okay. Yeah. Whatever. I feel you on that. Yeah. It's for me, it's become such a part of my day-to-day routine to post like a day and post my story and just share those bits. But I totally get it. If you're not in that, like anything, once it becomes a habit, it's just second nature. But once you're out of that and it's habit not to do it now, it's like, ah, there's quite a lot of resistance. I caught one of your posts the other day. And it's amazing how sometimes people get like really charged up over something that I think is like nuanced or kind of reasonable or innocuous. You made a post that was about like something to the tune of like, I've been using length and partials in my training for a bit. And, you know, here are the reasons why, like, you know, it's up to you to decide, like, if you want to do that or not. And so many people get like supercharged on like, no length and partials, definitely. It's like, oh my God, there's a world of gray in between here. And this person is just telling you like their individual, you know, kind of story and rationale. And you can take her pick and choose what you want from it. Length and partials is like a great example of like a weird nuanced one, right? Because I don't know how you feel about this. I encourage people to experiment in their training all the time. Find what works right. You can do take two, two different exercises, say muscle group. Let's just use biceps as an example. For me, full range of motion, barbell or easy bicep curls. I get the best like soreness, pumps, feeling like my arms are messed up, et cetera. If you switch to like a dumbbell curl, like a hammer curl, or even just like a two arm dumbbell curl, that length and partial variation for whatever reason, I don't know why, but just going up to like 90 and then getting that full stretch pumps my arms through the roof way more than any other like version on dumbbell curl. Same muscle, similar muscle action, right? But like totally different result from using this kind of intensity technique. So it's not a right or wrong answer for like, should you do it or should you not? Like, it's like, try it. You might find in some exercises it works great. Some exercises it's maybe not as good as the standard technique and you can pick and choose whichever ones you want. You don't have to pick one side or the other. Yeah, people do love to go into camps, don't they? I think probably Mike is made part of the stretch cult. I think they probably call it, whereas just hyper focus on all stretch. And again, they're just pigeonholing him in a certain position because it's then someone to battle against and people love to do that. Do you find that like when ideas are floating around, like the length and partial of the stretch that sometimes I'm asking you a loaded question because I clearly have an opinion. But do you find that people often use that as an excuse to kind of like make their training programs overly sciencey and less rigorous is maybe a nice way of saying it? Yeah, unfortunately, I definitely I that was literally what I was thinking. I was like, like you said, you can experiment with length and partials. There's so many bigger things that are so much more important to a training program than whether or not you take full range versus a length and partial like that is the super like things down the line that you want to consider. You want to train through a length and range. That's like a big ticket thing, probably doing short partials. I mean, you can still grow, but it's not going to be very efficient. But yeah, then people. That's the problem, I think, recently with the growth of science and data being published out there is then people will grab it, especially younger individuals who are now seeing a science is something that they can market themselves by and be like, look, this paper. And now my whole program is length and partials because, look, 50 percent more growth in this one study. And it's like extra extrapolating far too far. Yes. And I'm all for this notion of like train smarter. Right. That's like I went to school for this stuff. So like I'm all for it, but I think it's not an it's not an or right. It's like train smarter and harder. And very often what I encourage people, like especially younger athletes or people new to lifting is like learn the harder part first, like learn how to put out like effort, learn how to train close to failure with good technique. Right. Like learn how to push yourself. And then along the way, you can make that training more refined and smarter as you learn and gain skills and gain abilities and gain more knowledge. Right. Like I feel like when you come out the gate just on the smarter side, it tends to make training programs underwhelming to a degree. And I'm not trying to, you know, I consider myself in that like evidence based crowd. I'm not trying to poop on that at all. Right. But also like I see you're doing two sets and like two exercises. You know, like you could probably stand to do a bit more, homie. Like, let's not worry about these little finite details. Like you said, like on the length and partials, let's think about like how much training, how much effort are you putting into that again? Sorry. I kind of like comes full circle a lot of times because that's what I was seeing when I was consulting with some of these groups. It was like the training stuff sucked and the recovery stuff was like immaculately good. And I was like, man, this is so backwards. Like you got to get the training portion down before the recovery portion down. Right. Otherwise, you're not going to make any progress. But yeah, I kind of feel like that happens a lot. And so I always kind of give people that little nudge, like learn what it's like to over train, overreach plenty of times. Like get yourself there. See what it feels like. Know how much it took to get there. Right. If you do that, you'll have no problems putting in the requisite effort in a smarter program. Yeah. So well said. It makes me think of people who are really ultra specific with their nutrient timing, but they don't know how much total protein or calories they're having. It's just like, God, like this is the law of Pareto, that 20% that drives the majority of results that you're just not even nailing that 20%. You're doing all the stuff that's not really leading to much result at all. On the training front, James, to jump into your training, I know last time you experienced sciatica pain. Is that past? Are you fit, healthy? How's your own training going? Yeah. My training's going pretty good. The sciatica largely kind of went our way in my TRT days. I don't know if it's related or if it was just me being more conscious and smarter about it. Could be maybe a little bit of both. But largely that has gone away, which has been nice. This might sound silly and unrelated, but I did finally get a functional trainer with the Smith machine rack, which has also given me some more options in training instead of just doing like barbell, dumbbell only. And you might say, well, Smith machine is basically like barbell. But you can do a lot more things on the Smith machine than you can just with like normal barbells and dumbbells. So that's kind of given me a lot more options on the lower extremity training. I got the belt squat. That helps a lot too. I got one of those little sissy squat benches where you kind of lock your feet in and you tilt back. So that has helped a lot. I haven't really been blasting, you know, like heavy squats and deadlifts like I used to just because that tends to flare that up more. But it's been going pretty good overall. I've seen some like really good growth in my arms lately. I'm kind of in that like. Right now, I'm kind of just in a in a transition period, right, where because of like the pharma stuff, like I'm probably not going to make a huge amount of progress in either direction on like the fat loss or the muscle gain side. And that's OK. So I'm just really just I put in like 60 to 90 minutes every day. I often break it up into two sessions if I can, because my work schedule is a little more flexible. I'm fortunate in that way. Get like 12,000 steps a day between either cardio time or walking my dogs multiple times per day. They love that. So just mostly just kind of I would say I'm more of in like the like health world than like the physique world, though my training is much more on the physique side of things, but not trying to be a bodybuilder, just trying to like look good naked and, you know, keep my wife happy for now. Nothing too crazy on that front. No, that's that's great. And yeah, it's barbells and dumbbells are great. And they're like foundation for home gym. But the Smith machine, like you said, just opens up a whole host of things. Leg training is the hardest thing from home when you like dumbbells, like upper body stuff. It's like you can get so much done with those things. But lower body just becomes really tough when you haven't got machines available. Yeah. And you know which one I have been? It's been working really, really well for me since I got the Smith machine is doing the front foot elevated split squat in the Smith machine. Oh, my God. That's been just crushing me. And it's nice because you can't because you know, it's you're doing it unilaterally, essentially. So you can't use that much load. And the load is what really tends to flare up my sciatica issues. And it absolutely crushes my glutes and my quads in a way that I haven't really felt in a while. So that's been a new tool in my toolkit with that Smith machine, which has been really, really helpful. Even doing things like good mornings, because you can actually like position your feet behind the bar with the Smith machine, you can get like a way less actually loaded good morning that just is just crushing your hamstrings and not your your your back muscles. Excuse me. So, yeah, I mean, a little bit goes a long way. I've been thinking about getting one of those leg press hack squat combo machines. But the problem is that I'm on the tall side and most of them are not like tall people friendly for range of motion. So we'll see. But yeah, trying to keep my home gym nice and equipped so that I have a lot of a lot of options. Yeah, the good morning on the Smith machine is something I've been running for maybe six months down my program. And it's just so great because I can just I hip hinge twice a week. So this one's one. It's like my quote unquote lighter, more joint friendly hip hinge. But yeah, you can just it's easier than a barbell for whatever reason. It feels better on the joints connected to tissue. And I do exactly as you said, like I unrack it and then shift my feet just back kind of similar to like a slightly feet forward Smith squat to emphasize the quads more. You can kind of do the same with the good morning there. So that works so well. Out of interest, James, with being off the TRT, did you notice anything in terms of like energy balance differences? Like were you burning more calories just through taking TRT? Did you have to change your eating at all? Oh, massive for me. And I think I'm maybe more sensitive to then. I don't know if I have like a high androgen receptor sensitivity or whatever it is. But I was basically eating the same calories, macros, everything. Once I came off the TRT, I immediately just gained fat, gained weight. Like it was crazy. And now it's hard to link those two things together because the testosterone doesn't like directly act on fat metabolism, but it also facilitates fat metabolism indirectly through a variety of mechanisms. So I've also found that like my estrogen has been on the high side. So I might be experienced. And when you have that, so this is a result of amortization where your testosterone gets converted to estrogen. And in men, that can cause you to accumulate more visceral fat or fat around the midsection, which is where I tend to accumulate all my fat, which is really annoying. I'll get like my arms will lean out, my legs will lean out, and I'll still have like gut just sitting there. It's gross. So yes, I did notice a change immediately. If I was keeping my calories basically the same, my body composition started getting more soft. Luckily, I didn't lose. I don't seem to. I didn't seem to have lost any appreciable amount of muscle mass. I seem to have kept my size. And I think that's just because it's harder to lose size than people think. I think people are always constantly terrified. They're going to lose muscle all the time. It's like, you really got to be doing nothing for a while and not eating enough protein and blah, blah, blah. There's a lot of things that have to align for you to really start losing muscle. So I haven't really lost any muscle. I would say so. The physical effects, I felt less strong for sure. My performances generally went down, but not like, not huge, but noticeably not as good. Um, and the, I think the more profound effects were definitely more on like my, my mood states, affect, um, sense of wellbeing, definitely all in a much more negative direction. And that's, that's not a knock on the fertility medications. It's more of a knock on. I was out of my normal testosterone range for a bit. So, and you know, I was low T basically again, which is awful. If you're not able to deal with it, it's not fun guys. Um, I'm actually writing a, uh, uh, a little article for RP on like TRT made simple kind of, kind of thing for, for people if you're interested. So hopefully that'll be coming out soon. Um, yeah, but it was definitely like, I think for me, um, I mean, I feel like people often talk about like the physical effects of like coming on or off of testosterone as being the big selling point. But for me, it was really, it's more of like the emotional, the cognitive, just like the way that I feel about myself, the way I feel about the people around me. Like when I'm low T, I am not a pleasant person to be around. My mood is sour. Like people, I create a lot of friction, unnecessary friction. Right. Which is like, sounds like somebody who's taking too much tea. Right. But for me, it was like when I'm a, when I'm low, I'm just kind of a miserable person to be around. Um, and so it puts stress on your relationships. Um, and then it's like a night and day difference, man. Once you get into that, at least normative range, um, it's like, oh, it's like a huge weight was lifted off your shoulders. I know like when I went on testosterone for the first time, it felt like somebody had like flipped a circuit breaker that had been off in my body. You know, like when your power goes out and you flip the circuit breaker back on, it felt like, like that. Like I was like, wow, this is the vitality of like energy that I've been, uh, missing for a while. So yeah, uh, it's, it's kind of a weird, weird journey with that whole thing of like being, you know, low T hypogonadal TRT coming off, going back into low T going back into normal, but with fertility medication, blah, blah, blah. It's, it's a wild cycle. I would encourage people to not do that. Don't do what I did. Plan it out better. Yeah. From my understanding, just exaggerating it, when people go on like performance enhancing drugs, they, they go on steroids or what have you, even if they kind of quote unquote come off, they don't come off and just don't take. And I think they're typically just coming down to like TRT levels. I, I, I thought there were people that just were like, Hey, I'm done competing, whatever. I'm just fully coming off. But I asked Joe Jeffries, like, is there anyone who's done that who I can like interview to talk about kind of the effect today? It was like, um, most people don't just fully come off. Like very rarely do they do that because of what you've just described. Yes. And so like whenever you're taking exogenous, either testosterone or androgens or whatever, your natural production goes down. Right. And that's why you can experience things like testicular atrophy. That's something I experienced. Your testes shrink just because they don't have to do as much work. So they're not going to make as much testosterone, as much sperm. And the reason why that's relevant is it takes time for your natural production to kind of restore itself. And it might not come back necessarily to the full potency that you were before, but it can. But it takes like months and months and months and months and months. And that's why most people choose a more of a tapered style when they're either reducing or hopefully maybe long-term coming off of other androgens, because you don't just, it doesn't just come back right away. Your natural production is to say, it doesn't just come back. So if you just go cold Turkey, you're going to be pretty miserable for like a half a year, maybe a year. Usually it's kind of related to the length of time and the intensity of the drug use that you were using. So the longer and more rigorous drug regimen that you were using, probably the longer recovery time. And that's why most people tend to like taper down to like kind of TRT levels to kind of just start getting that natural production back. I know some people also in the bodybuilding world, this is maybe more of like an aesthetic choice, but a lot of people who were using androgens will also take drugs like clomiphene, clomid, just to maintain their testicular size and function long-term. So if they want to have kids or if they just don't want to have small nuts, because it is on display when you're on stage, right? It does look maybe a little bit more noticeable. Um, so some people choose to go that route. I actually found that to be a positive side effect. As you get into approaching your forties, you know, things start happening down there with the balls. That is not great. So when they atrophied, it was like, oh, it's like, I'm high and tight again. I'm young. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's very interesting, but I think it's particularly useful for, I guess, maybe some of the audience are coming in around like our sort of age and TRT is becoming something that there may be seeing more and considering maybe in some circumstances. Uh, so that article I think will be helpful. Were there any kind of big take homes from the article that come to mind? Yeah. The, the two, the kind of the big take home, right. Is TRT is not for everybody. Right. And so when you're thinking about it, there's a lot of, there's a lot of, um, side effects and risk factors that you need to weigh. Not everyone's going to have the same experience that I had or other people had. Most people have varying degrees of physical and psychological benefits. It's not a consistent thing. It's not a guaranteed. You're going to lose fat and gain muscle and feel amazing. You might, your body composition might stay the same and you might feel a lot better or vice versa. You might see humongous body composition changes and no real change in your mood. So what we are generally recommending for people is that if you are considering TRT, you should probably meet two major criteria, which is you are one, either hypogonadal or low T. So you've, you've gone to a laboratory, you've measured your testosterone. You've done it hopefully in the morning in a consistent fashion, not when you were like super hungover or anything, right? Like just under relatively normal conditions, measure it a couple of times. They both show that you're either below the normative range, which for total testosterone is usually 300 to a thousand, depending on who you ask. So you've got a confirmed low reading. You know, we start to get into the hypogonadal territory when you start seeing measurements that are like less than a hundred, because now you're basically not really producing much at all for whatever reason. So we want to see a confirmed lab result of either low T or hypogonadism. And then we also want to see, you know, one or more common signs and symptoms of low T, right? Now the problem that people run into is that a lot of the signs and symptoms of low T are also associated with things like shitty lifestyle. Like if you're over fat, you don't, you actually, you have exercise not enough or too much, poor nutrition, poor hydration, poor sleep, right? Poor stress management, alcohol use. Hi guys, Steve here. Just wanted to take a moment of your time to remind you of our online coaching service. At Revive Stronger, we pride ourselves on providing personalized service that will take your physique and knowledge to the next level. If you're interested, check the description and sign up. So there's a variety of like confounding factors. So very often, if you reach out to your clinician and your clinician can be a variety of people, could be your primary care doctor, could be a urologist, could be an endocrinologist. In my case, it was a nurse practitioner who was comfortable with this. They'll kind of be, they'll probe you for like, kind of like, what are you going through? Do we have a confirmation here on the low T or the hypogonadism? And then you kind of are weighing your options and risk factors, right? And this is where I think people just need to be aware. There's not like a one size fits all approach on the TRT. There's a lot of different methods that you can use. There's gels, there's creams, there's injections, there's pills, there's pellets. There's all sorts of things that you can use. All of them have distinct benefits and risks. Some are more titratable than others. Like the injections, you can really adjust the dosage very easily. Whereas sometimes the gels and creams and patches kind of come in predetermined doses, blah, blah, blah. Right? So the next thing that we want people to be aware of is like, whatever, if you end up going this route, you have to do regular monitoring with your doctor in terms of your blood work and in terms of what signs and symptoms you are presenting. Right? Somebody who goes from like 200 testosterone to 500 might see like pretty significant body comp changes, maybe pretty significant mood changes. And that's great. And they're not presenting a ton of signs and symptoms or risk factors. You take that same person, you go from 500 to 700. Right? And they might feel a little bit better than they did before. But now they have like acne and hair loss and their hematocrit's going up. Right? Are their estrogens going up? Right? So you kind of have to do a little bit of this guess and check work. That's why we encourage people to work with a clinician to try and figure out kind of like where you land in terms of where the treatment is giving you the best net benefits to risk ratio. Right? Like are you – if you want to feel your best, are you willing to sacrifice like acne or some hair loss? Like if the answer is yes, then that's okay. Right? If no, if you want to keep a nice full luxurious head of hair, then you might choose a different method or lower dosage, blah, blah, blah. Right? So we want the confirmation, we want the repeated follow-ups in labs with your clinician to guess and check, get that dialed in. It's going to take probably a few iterations. It took a few iterations with me. It takes a few iterations with my clients. I actually have a client right now who is what I call redlining where they're taking too much and their blood pressure is through the roof. They're getting irritability, sleep disturbances. Like they're – and I said like you're going to die. We got to get that – you got to talk to your doctor and get that dose down. Like if your blood pressure is already going high and your person was like turning red at times, like not good. Not good. So more is not better. Right? So with TRT, we're not looking for performance enhancement dosages. Right? We're looking to restore the deficiency that you are presenting, not give yourself super physiological levels. Now, people do that. But that's just a different context. Right now, it's a performance enhancing drug context. And that's fine. That's a different can of worms for TRT. We just say we want you to be in the normative range somewhere where the benefits are outweighing the costs. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's so well described. And I really like the two points there where you have the confirmatory test, but then also symptoms. Because I know there's people who they might have low test according to the test, but they actually feel completely fine. They have no symptoms of it. It's kind of like, well, why would you then try and correct that? Like what we care about is the outcome. Like what's happening in real life? Yes. And some people also think that like age is just like a factor. Right? And there's plenty of people who are into their 40s and 50s who have no signs and symptoms. And their T is still in the normative range. So it's just a non-issue for them at that point. Or even if, like you said, their T might drop in the lower end of the range, like maybe 300, 400. But they still feel as good. Right? They have the same like virality, sexual performance that they have. I'm going to start getting gross. Pardon me in advance. You start getting the same like spontaneous or morning erections that you would otherwise normally have. Right? You feel energy in the gym. You feel motivated. You feel good about yourself. Like those are all indications that you are good. You're normative. Like you're not really having low T issues at the moment. So age is not necessarily a factor. Now, as men get older, our testosterone does tend to drop off, but it's highly variable between people. And so some people might not see a significant drop off into like their 40s or 50s. Myself, I saw a drop off pretty early in my like mid 30s. Right? It's everybody's different. It's not right or wrong. So, yeah. There's a lot of factors that are at play here. And I think you might agree with me on this one, Steve, too. It's like I usually people ask me about the TRT stuff a lot, which is great because I have a lot to say about it. But my thing is usually first, like, have you tried the lifestyle stuff yet? Right? Have you worked on your training, worked on your nutrition? Are you hydrated? Are you not getting wasted all the time? Are you getting enough sleep? Like those are all things that are good for your health, but also good for your testosterone levels and often can take people who are on the borderline into more in the middle. Yeah, I was going to touch on that. And exactly as you said, I think thankfully a lot of the listeners here are natural bodybuilders or just people that are really kind of infused by the bodybuilding lifestyle and stuff. And all of that is like incredibly health promoting, apart from when you take it to stage and then, yes, you are in the very low T range. Yeah. And thankfully men are pretty resilient in terms of bringing those levels back. And we have research to also confirm that. But some people might be trying to, I've certainly seen in individuals trying to stay too lean and that knocks on to everything. Like their sleep isn't as good. They're in a calorie deficit potentially quite often. And they're still experiencing those kind of reduced energy deficit types of symptoms. Can I ask you about that? I'm actually curious for your take on this. So I don't work with, I mostly just work with people who are either sporting or like just want to do body composition, but not to the point of stepping on stage where I know you have worked with a lot more people who step on stage. And one of the reasons I'm reluctant to do that, I have worked with people before. And in my, this is an opinion, this isn't a fact. This is just an observation on my end. So don't, don't bite my head off everyone. But I find that when you take a normie person, very often they, they have like a goal in mind for their fitness journey, right? Sometimes it's running a marathon. Sometimes it's stepping on stage doing a physique show. And I kind of try to nudge people away from that unless they have a burning desire to compete in physique because, and I'm curious to see if you agree or disagree or have another take. I find that it tends to kind of promote like body dysmorphia and disordered eating for people who are not prepared to deal with that. Whereas like sometimes if you have thought about like being a physique athlete as like either a recreational thing or like more of a career, you are probably more prepared to deal with some of those issues. I think a lot of normal people who do like a physique show walk away with it with just a huge misunderstanding of like what they are supposed to do for the rest of their life from that point on. They think like, oh, I can just be like this kind of most of the time. It's like, no, you were like this for a couple hours, right? And that was it. And then you're going to go back to normal. How do you feel about that with most people that you work with? Yeah, I, I think my, most people I work with come, they're not norm, normal, essentially. They're abnormal because they've, they've listened to the podcast. They watch the content. They have such a great understanding of what's involved through the contest prep and how they're going to experience it. They're already aware of kind of the recovery post show. And they're, again, they're expecting those kind of red S type symptoms. So they're already coming into it with like accepting that to some degree. And I already have that conversation with them to like confirm, like you're ready to know that life is going to suck quite a lot for a period of time. But it's like a short term cost and trade off to kind of present this package on stage. But if I was talking to just some guy in the gym, yeah, I kind of talk about us as if we're aliens, extreme, like, and I have clients where they're like, I'm like, do you want to step on stage? Like, I'm not too interested. I'm like, cool. It's the thing that sucks the most. Like for some of us, it's highly rewarding. And like, it's the thing that gets us out of bed. But like you said, a lot of people go into it without that kind of understanding and then they can get burnt by it. And you see it. I see it regularly on social media where people, again, then hate against bodybuilding. It's like, well, it wasn't necessarily like the sport in for itself is more like your experience and the way you went about it that maybe led to you being in not such an ideal state afterwards. Yeah, and I think some people just have like a better personality or just position towards that. And maybe others have a worse, right, where some people naturally can manage those stressors and expectations a little bit better in this context. It's not maybe not in all contexts, but in this particular context, like they can deal with it and other people can't. And so, yeah, I've kind of like really tried to push people away from doing a physique show just kind of flippantly, casually, right, where they're just like, oh, yeah, I want to do that. I want to do men's physique. It's like, do you do you really want to do that or do you just want like the cool selfie that you can post on Instagram? And usually the answer is the latter. Like we just want the the the cool picture or like to look good for a little bit and that and no judgment either way. It's fine. But, yeah, the amount that goes into I mean, it's the same thing. It'd be like if I was so arrogant just to be like, you know what? I think I'm going to run an ultra marathon. Yeah, we'll be like, James, are you stupid? Like, you know how much train you can't even stand on your feet the amount of time that you would have to be running. Right. It's there's there's like a hubris to it, right, where it's like I'm going to do this ridiculous feat of physical fitness. You know, I'm being playful. But, yeah, I kind of like try to say, hey, let's let's let's maybe just think about like getting to your happy place of leanness and staying there more often than not. That's a good goal. Yeah. So well said. Yeah. I always frame it as bodybuilding is an extreme sport. So you can't go into it lightly. And if you don't have a strong reason why, you probably won't get into shape for it anyway. And that's going to ruin your whole kind of enjoyment of the process because you're not going to do well. You're not going to feel like you actually were competitive. I tend to think people like that are better off doing like a photo shoot that can have all the upsides without the downsides. You don't have to get as lean, doesn't have to suck as much, and you actually get amazing photos where like you have a professional photographer that's going to get you under great lighting, get you with the pump. You're going to look sick. Man, I totally agree. The photo shoot is such an easy thing to organize for yourself, right? Like even if you have a friend who's like a recreational photographer, like can probably do a pretty good job. You don't necessarily have to have like professional level stuff. Yeah. I don't know. I've always felt a little weird about that. But at the same time, I also just recognize that it's not for everybody. Yeah. And I think just to further your comments there, the only I in some ways I don't like to say this on air because I have female clients and I take them to stage. And I love the women I work with. I love taking them to stage. But there are some I don't encourage it strongly. I like a man in the same way, just because of the kind of hormonal impact it can have. And women just don't seem to deal with it as well as men, just from a biological standpoint. Some women are amazing at it and can like, I don't know, they're like genetically just made to be able to lose body fat. It's not a problem for them. The world didn't need them for survival, have you? But women are made to survive and reproduce. And so the body really fights everything when they get down there. And so I find it harder to take women to stage and to like put them on. And what they have to go through is harder. Like they have to do more output. They have to eat less. They're smaller individuals. So it can really suck. And the conditioning requirements now are just wild as well for some categories. The women's categories are confusing for me. Like with the men's categories, I can usually pick out the top three of whatever. But the women's, I have no idea. It's always, it's tough for me. Let me ask you this too. When you have athletes who are doing it more than recreationally, like they're maybe trying to seek out a pro card or just do it like as a professional. I'm curious as to your take. And I know there's not a one size fits all answer here. But how often do you, would you encourage your physique athletes to compete like step on stage, let's say per year? How many events per year would you want them to do? And I'm largely asking from the perspective, not from like the readiness perspective of like keeping a certain body fat percentage, more of the practice and becoming familiar and comfortable with the show prep process. What's your kind of thought on that? Yeah, for sure. It's because there's definitely too many. I've had clients do that and they get burnt out because it's a lot to get turned up and do the peak week and travel and all that kind of general stuff. And the stress of standing on stage and however long they have you up there under the bright lights. And even just putting a posing routine together for a lot of people. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And especially you don't want to do that too late because you don't have the bandwidth to think about it. A lot of people wing it on stage for that reason. And it's not judged. So that tends to come into it. But I don't like people to do one because I'm always like the first one. It's just so unlikely to go really well because unless you've been to a lot of shows and you have a good amount of experience, like you're just kind of learning. Like how does backstage run? Like what does it feel like to present yourself on stage? And you're going to have feedback from the judges that's going to maybe help you to be better next time. And so I always encourage a minimum of two, especially for the investment they've made, the time, the effort, like what they put themselves through in terms of like it's a sacrifice. You're sacrificing some things in life for a short period of time. And then a maximum maybe for someone who's experienced six, but that would be really tough. Yeah. Yeah. And really trying to get that done. If I can get it done in an eight week window. Amazing. I was going to ask you that. Up to 10 weeks, but knowing that you're not going to be your best for all of those. So you might come in for the earlier shows with a bit more fat loss to go, be a bit fuller and kind of present that package and then be ready to be more so on it for the last shows. And hopefully you've been able to like eat up and just maintain that look, kind of try and maintain it as best you can. It's not really a maintainable look. I kind of look at it as when you're down at that level of leanness, you're kind of burning slowly. You can kind of put it out a little bit with some water and refeeds and that, but it doesn't undo the damage. Yeah. Yeah. I was curious about that too, because there's so much that goes into like, it's one thing to do like, you know, what I do, which is like take people through like two cut blocks and then they're like pretty shredded and they feel good about it. Right. So another thing to go from that to the stage prep, which just requires a whole new set of skills, both on the training, the hydration, the nutrition, all of it. And then, like you said, even just like the logistical parts of it, like getting used to the backstage stuff, getting used to the, doing the posing routines. To me, those are all like skills that need to be refined because you're going to make mistakes along the way and you're going to refine them as you go. But if you're only competing like zero to one times per year, you're just not getting the repetitions. It's kind of the same thing of like, you can put it in another context of like, how well is somebody going to do on the rugby pitch if they only play rugby once a year? Probably not great because they're not used to like that game pacing and intensity that they get from competing somewhat regularly. So I kind of feel, I've always wondered what other coaches feel about that because sometimes, because to me, the answer of like doing multiple competitions to maintain a reasonable off-season body weight feels intuitive and obvious to most people. It means like if you do three competitions a year, it means you can't get too fat throughout the year at that point. Right. Like that's obvious. But to me, it's more about the reps and just saying like, okay, I'm getting better. I'm practicing. I'm making mistakes. I did this much carbs in my peak weekend. I got soft and doughy looking. I did this much carbs and I looked really like, you know, leaned out, et cetera. Do you, do you tend to agree? That makes so much sense. Cause often I find, look, as naturals, we grow so slowly. So you end up taking often, and I recommend it at least a year between seasons. I've often taken like three years, but by that point, your physiology has changed so much. And also you've kind of forgotten what it's like to be on stage. So you kind of do warmup shows to kind of get the cobwebs off. But it's, yeah, the practice is something I haven't thought a lot about, but it makes a ton of sense. And I think it's why, especially at this stage of my career now, I've been able to earn my pro card. I want to compete more regularly. Like my offseason, it's important, but I'm not going to grow as much. So it's not going to have as big a payoff. But competing more regularly actually now, as you've mentioned, I've not thought about it, but getting those reps of experience on stage, it does make a big difference. You can see the people who are like, I've seen and judged people who they've turned pro their first season and then they're in a pro lineup and they're not prepared to like compete up against pros, like to stand poised, hold those poses that long, get into positions. They're not facing the judges. They're like facing straightforward when they're on the outside sort of thing. There's something to the game of, and the skill of being on stage. So yeah, I think that's a great point. I've not really ever thought about it. Even, I know this is going to sound silly and I know some people might eye roll me a little bit here. Bear with me. Right. But all sports, I think, have like a fitness, a skill and a tactical component, right? You have kind of like whatever your fitness requirements are, you have certain movement things that you have to do and there's certain strategies to win or not lose. Right. And I think even something like a pose down, if you're on that, that latter portion of the judging, right? Like just knowing like, what are my, what are the things I should be flaunting off? And what are the things that like are maybe my weak points? And if somebody else is scoring really high on like that front double buy, and that's my worst position, maybe I'm going to switch and pivot to. One of my better positions, right? Just stuff like that. Putting the posing routine together, part skill, part tactic, like being able to execute the movement and flex and have the best aesthetic look while also being, you know, like somewhat enjoyable. It is a bit of a performance to a degree. Those are things that like you can't take lightly. You have to practice them. They're skills. They're, they're things you have to learn how to do. And people joke that bodybuilding competitively is like a beauty pageant, basically, which in many ways is. Kind of isn't weird. And part of that is the like makeup component or the tanning. Like a good and a bad tan can make a big difference. Now people are going to reference that Mike talked about his tan. I don't know if you saw that. But anyway, Mike wasn't happy with his tan. It can make a big difference. I'm not saying that's why I didn't like place higher, what have you. But if you're not dark enough under a certain amount of lighting and other people are, you're just going to look washed out and you're not going to look as lean. So even like the skin prep leading into the tan, the number of people I've seen who like their tan gets on and it looks all green because they've got, I don't know, moisturizer that they put on that they shouldn't have. Like little details like that start just, or even to the posing trunks you wear. Some you can get different cuts that like suit your physique, like your like hip structure better versus others. So yeah, there is tactics and like skills that I don't think go completely appreciated sometimes. Yeah. And I think people should, should treat it kind of like you would treat any other sport, right? Like it's, it's like you, if you're doing, I always go back to rugby, but it's like, if you're doing rugby, you got a strength component, you got a cardiovascular component, you have like your actual like ball handling, defensive tackling, you know, scrum like skills. And then you have like your strategies that you're working on. It's the same thing. Uh, even a sillier one is like weightlifting, powerlifting, like sometimes just knowing when to put your attempt on will change the rest time in between attempts, right? That gives you maybe a competitive advantage, or you might go faster, try and get your other opponent to go faster, et cetera, right? Those are, they're silly, but it's strategy and it's things that you have to learn how to do. We're going to flip the script a little bit here for you, James. You mentioned TRT and another one that's kind of, uh, not another one that's in vogue. This is in vogue. TRT is just constantly kind of, uh, ever present in a sense. Uh, GLP ones. Have you had much experience exposure with those? Not personally in terms of myself, but I work with a lot of people who use them. And I know a lot of people like just people close to me who use them. And yeah, it's an interesting thing. So I just want to say, first off, all drugs, right? Are not a one size fits all approach. All medications, drugs have trade-offs. There's something that you gain. There's a cost that you're going to pay. And everybody's going to experience those things to varying degrees. So again, it's not a one size fits all thing. So what you will find is that, um, for a lot of the GLP one products where the dosage can't really be titrated all that well, where it's just kind of a standard dose. You get a really mixed bag of responses. Some people tolerate it really, really well. And it's a godsend to them. I have a person, I'm going to keep them anonymous right now, who has had a really hard time just getting any diet and fitness stuff going. And they started taking, um, I don't know which, which version of the GLP one. I don't remember off the top of my head, but all of a sudden, like everything just clicked for them. They started training more, eating less, taking care of their health. Like their, um, their, uh, I don't want to say addictions, but like their, their cravings for like their vices went down significantly. Right. For them, it was a godsend. It was amazing. Other people, they start with like the minimum dose that you can do. And it's like nausea, hypoglycemia, hard time going to the bathroom, like bad performances as a result, muscle loss because they can't put down enough protein, blah, blah, blah. Right. So, um, here's kind of like my hot take on that. I generally like when people can, can use the variations where you can titrate the dose, hopefully with your doctor or clinician. Right. And what I have been encouraging people to do is we don't really have a ton of long-term data on these things, but what we have observed is that kind of like with the, we were talking about with TRT. If you just go cold turkey and stop using them, there's a delay effect, right? Where you still feel like you did maybe 25 kilos ago in terms of your behaviors, your hunger, your kind of eating habits and stuff. So what tends to happen is if you come off the drugs, even if you have made a big change to your lifestyle, you tend to rebound the weight back up just because your natural like hunger responses and things tend to ramp back up to where they were. Right. Right. So because of that, I usually recommend people once they get to their happy place, whatever that is, like it might be, you know, for some people might be 15% body fat for some people might be more like 10, whatever it is. It doesn't matter. It pick whatever, wherever they feel like this is, I'm happy in terms of like how, how much effort it took to get there and how I look, wherever that is. Once you get there, stay on the drug for upwards of like another year before coming off or tapering off just to give your body some time to adjust. That might be like overly conservative. I fully recognize that that is probably like overkill, but the alternative is to come off too early and rebound a lot of the weight back, which doesn't seem to be great either. I know Mike's been really big on, there's one that's in clinical trials right now called retatratide, which seems to have some promising effects. Again, like we, we don't know enough about these things for me to make like a really strong opinion on those. I know Mike has a strong opinion and that's fine. For me, I'm not quite ready to give one, but they do seem promising, at least in some of the early, early data. I, man, I struggle with this a lot because on the one hand, like if you grow up in the fitness world, like myself and you have, right? We naturally try to nudge people towards like the hard work, the discipline, like do the things, do it, do it. It sucks. But yes, there's pride and satisfaction in doing it, right? And you'll feel the reward later. At the same time, at least particularly in the United States, we've been pushing that message for a long time and it's not working. Right. And there's plenty of people who are just way, way, way, way overweight. Even when I was in Australia, you know, historically Australians are very, very fit, but there was kind of a noticeable upward tick in the body weight, body composition the last couple of times I've been there. And I've asked people about that and they said, yeah, they are kind of like a more sporting fitness culture, but the body weights have been creeping up a little bit. And so out there, it's also become an issue. So, yeah, I think it's one of those things where I would love to say, lean into the hard work, lean into the discipline because they're so rewarding in doing them themselves. However, if it's something that's going to massively or even just notably improve your quality of life and the tradeoffs are very acceptable to you as a person, like who am I to say not to do that? I don't know. Go for it. I'm not, I'm not, um, uh, what's the word? I'm not a prude on like using drugs to further your health and fitness goals. I obviously just wish people would work harder and do, do that. But I don't know, at the same time, like asking people to work harder is an uphill battle. Yeah, that's so well said. I view it very similarly, especially a lot of naturals are holier than thou, no drugs, so on and so forth. Right. The GPL ones are banned for natural athletes, so if there's anyone considering competing naturally, like, at least with the WMVF. I'm sorry. Oh, yeah. Like, I'm curious because, right, because, uh, regardless of what, regardless of the rules and regs, like, just throw, it's banned, you can't do it, right? Regardless of that, does it not feel like it's not in the spirit of physique? Like, I don't know, I could just be an outsider, I'm not, I don't, I don't live in that world, but like, it feels like the whole thing is like, I live this lifestyle. I make the sacrifices and I look this way for a reason, right? Do you feel this similar or do you not care? No, exactly. I absolutely feel that. And I think that's maybe part of some of the kind of regulations that the federations have is like, the spirit, is it in the spirit of natural bodybuilding? For example, for me, anything that needs to be injected, I'm like, this kind of doesn't feel in the spirit of natural bodybuilding. Some people use like, injectable L-carnitine or anything like that. And essentially, I think as soon as anything becomes, if anything's really potent for body composition change, it's going to get banned. Like, it's just going to get banned. So, yeah, I definitely feel like it's not in the spirit of competing naturally on stage. I totally get it in the enhanced side by, and again, no kind of shade on anyone that wants to go down that route, but just know what you're kind of getting into. And, yeah, I think I agree with you, even with like TRT, and we talked about kind of getting your kind of training in place, your lifestyle in place. Otherwise, try and be as fit and healthy as possible. But for some people, if they've got really demanding lifestyles for whatever reason, it's like maybe the tradeoffs for them are just worth it just to go on it, even though if in a perfect world, they probably wouldn't need to kind of view it the same there, too. So definitely with the GLP ones, the same way. I think if you're someone in – this is my opinion, and this isn't meant to sound judgmental. Like, I think do whatever you think is in your own best interest, first of all. Like, and it's none of my business what you do, right? My opinion is, like, if you are someone kind of in the fitness world or in the fitness bubble, like, man, I feel like the hard work, the discipline is like what really is satisfying and pays off. If you are outside of the fitness world bubble and you're just like an obese normie, man, the GLP ones are probably going to have a huge impact on your overall health and well-being. Yeah. You know, so again, again, I'm not trying to discourage people from using it. Again, make the choice that's right for you. Whether you're enhanced or not enhanced in any capacity, I don't care. It makes no difference to me. I don't judge. It's fine. I'm not prude on it. But I feel – I don't know. I just kind of feel like if you're so close, you already – if you're listening to this podcast, you're so close already. Why do you need it? I don't know. But if you need it, that's fine. I don't know. I'm being wishy-washy. But at the same time, I do feel like I want people to get after it. Yeah. I think at least, especially if they're listening to this, that should be the first port of call. And then if that's not worked successfully for you, like you have clients – I have had some clients who have gone down that route who just have always struggled with their weight. And despite everything and their best efforts, it just makes the process so much smoother. They can actually get to a healthier body weight. It's kind of a net positive for sure. But that isn't the norm, right? That's like a very small subset of individual. Yeah, I agree. And again, so I think there is definitely people where the benefits outweigh the risks for sure. And then there's probably like kind of like the fitness people where it's more of a – I want to say cosmetic, but it's more of like a tool in the toolkit you could look at as like, okay, this helps me. Do the show preps and everything. And I think that's fine too. Just like develop a good relationship with what you're doing. Feel good about whatever choices that you make. Because what you don't want to do is rely too heavily on the drugs and then feel unaccomplished when you're done, right? That would be an icky outcome where you stepped on stage and then you kind of have this like lingering imposter syndrome of like, I couldn't have done it without like all this enhancement. And if you don't feel that way, great. That's fine too, I think. But just like kind of weigh those pros and cons, see where you land and make a good informed decision from there. Very well said. James, final question for you. All right. You're the recovery guy as far as I'm concerned. I'm just going to call you the recovery guy. Has there been anything in the last years that's kind of sprung out to you in terms of being particularly efficacious or particularly not within that kind of recovery world? Yeah. You know, it's funny. I kind of get like the recovery guy title because really the issue is that I have severe ADHD. And some topics just because my eye of Sauron like focuses on it for a little bit, right? Which is a blessing and a curse because everything else goes to the wayside. And so recovery strategies has been that thing for a bit. Oftentimes it's stupid things like anime or like what roof rack do I need for my car? And I just waste tons of my life looking up stupid things. Anyways, on the recovery side of things, I haven't seen much that has really changed my opinion. A lot of it is kind of just like validated or confirmed some of the suspicions that I've been talking about for years where, you know, things like sauna, heat, cold exposure. Like they do have a role in promoting recovery, but you do pay a little bit of a price for using them. And I think just understanding that it's not good or bad, it's just contextual. For example, you got soccer players or footy players or whatever, and they got a couple matches per week and their joints are hurting and they're really beat up. Like put them in the ice bath. They'll bounce back faster than they otherwise would. That's a good use of it. You have athletes who are developing and trying to gain muscle and strength. Probably not the right time to use it more often than not. I think like what's really stood out to me in the recovery world is not necessarily the recovery stuff specifically, but the interplay between the recovery and the training. And what I really have landed on is most people's training, and I mean this respectfully, is underwhelming relative to their own abilities. Right? And so I kind of feel bad saying this, but like recovery ability is not a limiting factor for most people. Right? Now, for some of your podcast listeners, that's different because they're probably training pretty hard already at this point. And then dialing everything in is useful. But for, you know, I'm not trying to put anyone down, but I feel like if you're training like two to three times a week, like you don't have to think about recovery strategies outside of like health promoting things like getting sleep and eating well and all that stuff is good. But like, should you be thinking about like getting a massage or putting the normal tech pants on or going to the infrared like or the hyperbaric chain? Like, no, you need to get in the gym more. That's like, so that's kind of been like what I've been really focusing on the messaging lately is kind of like, don't look at the recovery strategies as something that's going to infuse like health and fitness into your body. Think of it as like a tool in the toolkit to support your already really rigorous training program that you you have everything else pretty much dialed in. And now you have lifestyle choices that you need to make right like make sleeping more doing a better job of having planned relaxation time throughout the day stress management tools. Of course, nutrition is integral in all aspects. And then even entertaining some of the more, you know, fun, sexy topics like the hot, the cold, the hyperbaric, the infrared. But what we find is that although these things do tend to have an effect, the effect is relatively small compared to the big health promoting lifestyle factors anyway. So it's like you should be eating well, hydrating, getting enough sleep, managing stress like that's good for your testosterone. It's good for your recovery. It's good for your performance. It's good for health. Do it. Do the basic things. Quit looking for the fun, sexy things. Get out of here with that. Spend more time in the gym. Do some cardio. All of those things go such a long way. I don't know. So I try not to poo poo those things too much just because I do think they do have a place, but I think they're. They're overvalued currently because they're fun. They're sexy that sometimes they feel good or they feel interesting. And yeah, so nothing has really stood out to me. Anything, nothing really new outside that I find that I used to think that athletes in particular were chronically overtrained. And my opinion has kind of pivoted to most people and athletes are chronically undertrained. Yeah, I, from personal experience, I would say the same thing. I think I got so kind of fatigue worried that I was like, oh, if I push too hard or if I do too much, like I'm going to have to pull back and deload or whatever. It's like, actually, the more I lent into just pushing my body harder. And like you said early in the podcast, like really, truly push yourself to your limits. You kind of don't know your limits until you've pushed to them. And the body is very resilient with these sort of things, especially if you're careful about kind of your technique and joining connective tissue and you're not doing anything silly with that in mind. So I think, again, it comes similar to supplements, to the overall diet, like calories, macros. Like most people still can refine like nutritional composition and this sort of thing versus jumping to any supplement that might do something very, very small for them. So like getting another 20 minutes in bed a night is going to accumulate through the week and that's going to be more beneficial than using a foam roller for 30 minutes at some point. Yeah, one, I know you're probably wrapping up soon, but one of the things that like I think goes a long way, it's underappreciated is something that got a lot of like lip service during COVID. But even stuff like mindfulness training is massive in terms of like your stress management skills. Like if you are somebody who's chronically stressed out all the time, that's a big problem in terms of your fitness and recovery goals. Right. And just learning how to kind of notice and I want to say cope, but like notice and observe dispassionately your mood states and how they kind of ebb and flow and how they change and how you don't you don't necessarily have to do anything. You don't have to act on them is such a massive benefit to not being chronically wigged out all the time. And I know there's kind of like a commercialization of like the mindfulness training because it became popular whenever it was stuck inside for a few years. But that's another tool like it's it's it falls in that stress management bucket. And it's like doing something like that versus like spending hours researching which L-carnitine that you should take is like that's going to be such a massive impact comparatively. Yeah. And I also I think you probably agree with this is sometimes adding isn't what you need. You just need to be happy with you already doing everything you need to be doing. I find that for myself where I was like interested in getting like a whoop and like all these fitness tracking devices. And thankfully I had Greg Potter in my ear who's a he has a PhD in sleep and he's like big into these things. It was like Steve don't I think it will be more of a like cost you more than it will benefit you in any sense because you're already doing kind of the things that are going to promote the best things. People get decision paralysis from the wearables. I've noticed they'll they'll they'll go oh my HRV is like not great today. I'm like OK how do you feel and they're like oh I feel fine. Like OK you want to you want to lift you want to train like yeah OK. You know you get those kind of situations all the time. So I think I think that that those the tech can be helpful especially for looking at like long term trends but for making like really short term decisions probably maybe not ideal. For sure James thank you so much for your time. I'll have to not leave it two years to bring you back on because this was a really fun chat and I have many more things that we could talk about no doubt. And I think the listeners will really have enjoyed this if people want to keep up to date with you. Are you working on anything or where should they be heading. I'm kind of just I'm doing coaching right now through RP. I'm working on just a few basic things. I got that TRT made simple guide hopefully coming out soon. I'm thinking about doing some sport training video series. We'll see. But yeah mostly I'm just like if on Instagram at RP Dr. James or you can just find me through the RP website. If you're looking for coaching or anything about me but like I said before mostly it's just like stupid stuff like I posted like a silly anime and chill real today. Like it's dumb stuff. So I'm working on it. Hopefully we'll hopefully we'll do more. Exactly. Hopefully we'll do more content related stuff in the future. Amazing. I'll make sure your Instagram is linked and also the link to the RP site as well. And thank you guys for listening. We'll catch you soon.