 recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper recuper science research, right, that we have relatively untrained samples. I think over the last few years especially, there's been some improvements. Think of someone like Martin Raffalo. He's done some work with really well-trained samples. Our lab has got even better trained samples than we've had in the past and in some recent studies as well. And some other labs have definitely made some improvements on that front. But at the same time, I think there is just always going to be that limitation that the folks that we have access to for hypertrophy training studies specifically compared to the folks interested in applying, there might be a little bit of mismatch there in terms of training status. And that begs the question of like, okay, are there limitations therefore in terms of the principles that we get from these studies and applying it to a better trained sample? And the reason I think this question that you posed is so important is that I think it's highly unlikely that there is like a very clear cap that untrained or kind of recreationally trained individuals can grow. So in other words, there's a ton of muscle that they can grow in a 10-week period. And that's actually one of the benefits of training untrained or more recreationally trained folks is you can compare 5% versus 10% muscle growth. Whereas Steve, I hate to break it to you, but you're not going to increase your muscle thickness by 10% over the next 10 weeks because you're very, very well trained. So the question becomes in my mind with advanced trainees, is there a cap, right? Over a 12-week period, over a 48-week period, over a year and a half, whatever the case may be, is there a cap to muscle growth? Because if there is for advanced folks, that would fundamentally change the dose-response relationship between a given variable, whether that's reps and reserve, volume, frequency, et cetera, and the results that they get. In the research, we don't really see these like super clear plateau effects. To some degree, that's up for debate, but I feel relatively confident saying that, you know, more workload is better, training harder is better. I think that's a pretty high-level principle we can extract from the research right now. But if there's a cap to muscle growth for very well-trained folks, that relationship just looks different because you just reach that cap and then additional work just keeps you at that cap, right? So that would be a pretty important limitation to figure out if it is a limitation, but we just don't know. And I think there's some downstream questions from that. Like if there is a cap, is that cap modifiable based on things like the size of the calorie surplus that could lead to some interesting study designs and some interesting discussions. But I do think there is a kind of like fundamental question underlying your question, Steve, and that is to what degree can we extrapolate exercise science research findings on less trained folks to more trained folks? And if there are fundamental differences, what does that mean in terms of practical application? Really interesting. Yeah, I guess I don't know if when I'm asking this question, at least when I wrote it down, I was thinking like a genetic ceiling type of cap, like we've maxed out all our gains. But from hearing your answer there, it might be that you're looking at it also from an angle of like, is there a certain amount of muscle that we can grow over a certain time? Is that right? Yeah, I think those are two related, but also kind of independent questions regarding the genetic ceiling question. I'm generally in the camp that it's a pretty irrelevant question for most people. Now for lifers like you, Steve, it does become a relevant question, but just you know, looking objectively at fitness in the broader population, that's not a very relevant question for most folks. I think there's a ton of examples of folks progressing really deep into their training careers that even for lifers, I question the practical utility of like determining whether there's a genetic ceiling or not. So that's why I kind of like condense it down to a shorter time period. Because I think that actually influences what you do in terms of your training program in the next month or the next year, because that might influence whether you spend 10 hours in the gym or six hours in the gym, and that will have a serious impact on your, you know, your behaviors and your training choices. So I think the genetic ceiling question is very interesting. But I question its relevance and its utility, you're never going to know whether you're there. And pondering that and overthinking that might be a waste of time. Because you're just probably not going to have the answer. But I, I don't know, I'd be curious if you guys disagree with that, or if you have counterpoints. I'd say I'd probably have a view somewhere in the middle. With respect to the genetic ceiling thing, I think it really depends on the definition of a couple things. Number one thing is what are we calling a plateau? I think that's easy to just say, and easy to, okay, we all kind of know what we're talking about. But I don't think it's nearly that simple. You have a couple kind of buckets of things you're considering. You have in this kind of cloud of unknowable facts, do I have more muscle mass? That's like one category you could consider things. Another category of considering things is, is the difference perceptible? Like, am I able to actually perceive the difference in which I'm looking at my physique? Let's say I had very similar to the experiment you did with Dave McConey, Steve, essentially randomizing photos for really advanced folks. If we were able to do that after a, you know, a given period of time, but we think it's reasonable to make progress for the advancement of that individual, how, what's the probability we'd be able to detect the photo in which they should have in theory progressed. That's another example of kind of putting it in a perceptible bucket. As far as I'm concerned, I, I think Josh's comment is mostly in the first bucket. And that's, I think most people that are kind of lifers and just enjoy the sport for what it is and kind of this arbitrary goal seeking that it becomes kind of more than just the, you know, the, the, the number on the scale or whatever kind of metaphor you want to use. I think that's probably something that for all intents and purposes, there isn't necessarily a true cap. It's logarithmic in the true sense of where it's asymptotic, meaning we never actually get to that eclipse. Definitely not. If you kind of consider practical constraints of how, how many hours do I have to train when I'm 50 years old, those kinds of things, like obviously not in that case, but even in our peak training years, I think it's something that we can't really ever touch the ceiling, but we're getting ever closer. Then when you move to kind of the perceptible angle, that's where I think it's very much up for debate. I was having a conversation with James Steele this morning about this, and he's kind of was going to post like kind of his own case study of his kind of lean bulk journey he's done over the last couple of years. And basically has four photos over the last 10 years and his kind of whole ethos, if you know him, he's a pretty pessimistic, it's not the right word, but maybe sobering person. And he really likes to kind of, you know, have people gripple with epistemology and what can we really know and those kinds of things. He would very much make the, makes a claim that it's not really a perceptible difference after a certain amount of time. But then I can appreciate, at least for me, I can very much appreciate, you know, really advanced bodybuilders such as yourself, Steve, who feel very confidently you can detect differences visually on stage photos compared to this year, the previous season, things like that. So I think all of those universes can exist. And so anytime we talk about a plateau or genetic ceiling, I think a lot of that discussion is lost. And it really comes down to what people mean. And I think the population of the type of person that you are is going to influence which of those bucket buckets is a bigger deal to you. Like Josh said, for like the average person, I think it could be potentially, potentially useful information to know that the perceptible bucket maybe is something that does taper off pretty quickly. And I can get the vast majority of my gains, at least from a visual perspective, pretty early on, and that I don't have to stress about it nearly as much. Like the average person, maybe that's really helpful information to know. Whereas for somebody I know, Josh, for example, is an extremely motivated person. He's talking about the first bucket for sure. And the idea of having room to gain, no matter if it's necessarily quantifiable, that journey is something that's interesting nonetheless. And so I think that kind of muddies those waters substantially in terms of that conversation. But hopefully, hopefully that helps color my perspective on that a little bit. And then in terms of the first question, in terms of the rate of growth within a given period, I agree that's something that we don't have a ton of real insight on. But it is an interesting concept that has a lot of downstream implications. Like Josh was kind of painting the example that maybe I'll try to rearticulate just to really hammer it home, is let's say, you know, in a normal case, you're able to grow at a rate of 10%. That's kind of the cap. I can train harder, I can do these things to try to get to my rate of growth to reach that cap of 10%. So I'm modifying my behavior to allow me to reach that. But let's say for an advanced individual, for whatever reason, that rate of growth that I'm able to achieve is cut in half, let's say it's 5%. The question is, are these modifiable factors in terms of training harder in terms of the behavioral things, my sleep, my nutrition, is that going to help me reach that 5% as if that's my ceiling? Or are some of those things now redundant, because my rate of growth is now smaller, and I could be changing my behaviors in other ways and still meeting the cap? That's where we don't know. And it's hard to speculate, I guess, if I'm putting my purely just gut opinion out there, I would tend to be in the camp that the rate of growth declines over time. But it still requires the similar behaviors to reach that maximal rate of growth for wherever you are. It's just that the rate of growth declines. But it'd be interesting to think about the idea that maybe there are, you know, redundant behaviors that would describe some of the anecdotes of people kind of lowering their volumes throughout their training career, or what have you. There's a lot of arrows pointing in both directions there that I don't want to get off on a tangent. But yeah, I think the one area that Josh kind of hinted at that, to me, is interesting in this conversation is thinking about the productive surplus throughout your kind of career. If we agree that the rate of gain that you can actually achieve employing all these quote-unquote optimal behaviors is declining, that kind of tends to support, at least in theory, the idea that the surplus you need to maximize that rate of growth probably also declines as you get more advanced as well, which kind of, I think, mirrors practice quite a bit. But yeah, I blabbered for a while there. What do you guys think? I think you guys, on both ends of this kind of question, like, thought it through really nicely. And I think align with my thoughts too, in terms of, again, actually, that's something I remember thinking about was if a surplus is in for itself somewhat anabolic and you're trying to stack every card in your favor as someone who's more advanced, having more of a surplus is going to be helping you there. But I put that into practice. And I think answering this question, at least like an N equals one and with clients, being in a smaller surplus because you've got less muscle growth potential leads to less fat gain, at least. And then you can mass for longer. And so it tends to be practically a better outcome, even if like, hey, you could do some mini cuts in the more extreme bulking scenario and be in the same outcome. I think most people prefer not having to need to do that. And also leads to a lot of people having better appetites and all of that sort of thing. But that's kind of a bit of a side tangent, as it were. And I also think, like you said, Zach, kind of gut feeling. It doesn't make sense to me to work less hard to gain muscle. Although that would kind of be nice in some circumstances, but I just think. And it definitely doesn't get easier. Yeah, it's exactly like hard just seems to work quite well. And then in terms of a cap, yeah, plateau adjacent is kind of a word for it, I think. It's like watching paint dry at some point. And then even to the point of for advanced bodybuilders stepping on stage and comparing photos, it's like, well, is that because they gain muscle? Was their diet better? They retained more on the way down? There's so many ifs, buts and unsures. And I think I agree in regards to the fact that for most people listening, it's no problem. They're never going to reach that ceiling. For those that are trying to reach that ceiling, if there even is one, it's like, well, are they going to pull back because they think they're there and they don't know? Maybe, maybe some people do that. But I think most people who are lifers are just really trying to push the upper bounds of that. And I think there are enough anecdotal people. I think of an Eric Helms as an example. I think he gained, he certainly gained kilos of muscle from a one year offseason, basically, where he competed in, what was it, 2023? And then he's competed now 2025. So he didn't have that much of an offseason, but he's gained kilos of muscle as an advanced lifter. And he just lent into all the things that should lead to more muscle growth. And it seemed to work for him. So I think in cases where we don't have the scientific literature to support arguments like that, you have to lean on anecdote in those scenarios, which is why I think probably the bros often do like going that way, right? They don't quite often like the research for that reason. But that's not to say you should leave it all together. I also think for the one final point on like a true cap, I think a lot of people reach a lifestyle cap. So it's whether or not their work or their family or other priorities become more of a priority where they can't prioritize the things that lead to muscle growth. So they kind of just like, hey, I'm holding on to what I've got, because I can only train twice a week and my sleep shoddy, so on and so forth. And then I don't know about you guys, but age, this is like, I know sarcopenia, where like that settles in like 40s. But for people who are lifting, we're not losing muscle. I think you could probably be at your peak mass from like, I don't know, 35 to 50, maybe, where you're maybe seeing muscle loss in your late 40s to 50s plus. I don't know if there's any good literature on that, or if you guys have any thoughts on like, what age we can expect to be at our peak muscularity as lifers. Neither of you have any immediate thoughts. Yeah, honestly, this is to clarify, totally speaking out of my depth here. This is researcher head off. This is just me talking. So you know, we're in for a ride. So one thing I've been interested in is like, totally just anecdotally, I would have to imagine that weight training participation population wide is substantially higher than historical averages would suggest. And the reason I think that's interesting is because I kind of feel like a lot of the historical, you know, sarcopenia data is just categorically not applying to people who have been raised and kind of participate in the iron game for like, lifelong. As I would assume most of us are kind of that's our plan until proven otherwise in terms of just our behaviors. So I genuinely have no idea what proportion of the sarcopenic muscle and muscle function loss is associated with the lack of activity and removing those kinds of things out of your life as opposed to a direct causal effect of aging itself. I'm sure they're the contribution of both, obviously, to some degree. But I would just have to imagine that it is just categorically not the same. If you're somebody who engages in, you know, resistance training kind of in a lifelong endeavor. So with that in mind, I genuinely don't know. I would have to imagine for people like us for the most part, again, there's definitely some sort of a direct arrow with aging. But I think the propensity for injuries and things like that, that kind of come along potentially with those additional lifestyle constraints, I think that might be the bigger thing that eventually kind of takes you off the wagon and then it kind of snowballs would be my guess. But honestly, that's just totally eventually the, you know, the, the, uh, I can't think of the word now, the Grim Reaper's, yeah, Father Time Grim Reaper is going to get you. Like I'm sure there, like I said, there's some sort of direct effect of aging, but I, I do wonder once we get a solid set of data, if we, you know, if we all participate in some sort of like 40 year long clinical trial, I would imagine it's substantially different for people who are consistently participating in resistance training. And I think that's probably a good thing, right? So. Yeah. The, the only thing I'd add to that regarding this question about, uh, different decades of life and, uh, what muscularity can and can't look like. And then also the, the Natty Max or the genetic ceiling conversation. I think it's easy when you think of these things conceptually to imagine like pretty curves in your mind about muscularity increasing robustly upon initiation of training in your twenties or in your thirties, whenever someone starts lifting weights consistently, and then that kind of tapers off. And then like Zach said, eventually father time kind of catches up with you, but you can fight it off quite a bit and stay at or near your max muscularity for, um, for a good amount of time and maybe deeper into your lifespan than the textbooks would otherwise tell you because the populations studied that inform those, uh, those timelines aren't all that relevant to a lifelong lifter. I think those things are like really interesting, but I don't know how, and this kind of circles back to one of my initial comments is like, I don't know how practical those curves are because that's not what it looks like even for lifers. Um, like, and Steve, I'm sure you've seen this in your coaching practice, but I think just improving the quality of your training can like completely change the way that those curves look right. We've, we have examples of natural bodybuilders deep into their competitive careers, adding kilos to their stage weight. And presumably a good amount of that is, is muscle mass when that would kind of go against the natural pattern of the curve. Um, I have a client that just turned 50 this last month and he is hitting all time power lifting PRs that he used to hit in wraps in his thirties. Right. And he's like completely, he's lifted his entire adult life and he plans to lift as long as he can beyond age 50. Um, but the curve, he's deviated from the theoretical curve. So I think thinking through the theoretical curves is definitely helpful, but it's just that it's just theoretical. And I think that, um, at least coming at it from an optimistic perspective, I think you can, um, turn over stones to try to deviate from that curve in your favor as much as possible. And I think that's what makes it fun. And I think we see enough examples of that to at least be inspired and to at least try. And that's how I think of it. Um, while also completely agreeing with everything that, you know, you guys have said about what we kind of expect on paper, I'm just pointing out that, you know, there's a reason this stuff, uh, isn't, you know, they say you play the football games on the field. You don't play the football games on paper. I think it's the same thing here. Yeah. Yeah. Well said guys, I think the point of, I hadn't really thought about that, but the data on sarcopenia is not in the type of population that cares a lot of the time. And the people listening here kind of similar to the question of a lot of the people that care about the literature on muscle growth aren't the ones being studied, unfortunately. So it's a question of how applicable is it? And in this case, really not applicable. It's a very different game. Something I think about is masters competitors. So at least there's a lot of over 40s, over 50 competitors. And at least from what I see, the over 40s masters, they're pretty much like holding their peak. They're as good as they ever were when they get into their fifties, 50 plus. That's when I see when I'm looking at the kind of stage and competitors, I'm like, you can see there's that you don't think they're looking their best at this point. Again, injuries a lot of the time. So I think about legs, that's often the muscle group that dwindles. Cause it's like knees, like just tend to go hips. Yeah. It's also like how many, how many years are you trying to load up that hack squat? You know what I mean? Like there's like the practical things, uh, start to come. And that's where I think the lifestyle kind of cap that you, that you mentioned, Steve, I think that's, to me, that's probably the thing that gets you before anything is just priorities change and you aren't able to dedicate as many resources to the activity, but that doesn't mean that there isn't still things to be gained from it, obviously. So, yeah. One final point for this first question is I have heard people say, maybe a James still feels this way to some extent, uh, other than, uh, so people have said not to worry about maximizing muscle growth because kind of you might grow more now, but you'll just hit your kind of ceiling sooner. How do you guys feel about that? Is that, do you feel like from my, yeah, I'm just going to throw that out there. Zach, you can come at it first. Unless Josh wants to. Oh man, it's a good one. Um, I love the question. I can't wait to hear what it's access to be honest. Yeah. I was gonna say this, this one's tough for me. Um, I think I, I tend to think that basically you need to, to, to reach your true peak, uh, you know, maximize your rate of gain. Essentially you have to be maximizing the signal. And so what is going to maximize the signal? There's a little bit of hand, hand, uh, hands up for me. I can't see them in my screen, but I'm putting my hands up. Um, because I think it's at least reasonable that there's a range of stimuli or combination of stimuli that would allow for it. But I also think there's a window of stimuli that would not allow for it. So I think that is kind of where I would basically, basically what that means is that the rate of gain that you're getting at some point, there's going to be a rate of loss associated with that, um, after you've advanced a certain amount. And so that those need to offset one another enough for you to continue to stay at your peak or continue to gain or whatever. So I think to me, the thing that makes the most sense is there's probably a range of training variables that would allow you to get there. Eventually, some would maybe maximize that rate a little bit faster, but then there's also a range of solutions that at some point would be insufficient for you to continue to reach your peak and eventually would have you fall back down and settle at a point slightly below wherever you're eventually trying to get. I don't know if that makes sense. Um, yeah, that's, that's kind of how I tend to think about it. Yeah. I think, I think kind of what's underlying that question, Steve is like, if you were to gain muscle faster now, that means you would have to gain muscle slower in the future if this concept were to be true. So in other words, you have like, you have a hundred units of muscle that you can reasonably expect to gain over a certain period of time. Let's say it's just throughout a training career. If you improve your training and you go from, uh, 30 units of muscle over the next two years to 45 units of muscle, so A-50% improvement in your rate of progress, you are therefore just taking those units of muscle growth earlier in the process. I, my answer to this is quite similar to the, my thoughts and my perspective on like the genetic potential or the Natty Max conversation is like, I, I think that's probably directionally true. Um, because of like that asymptotic relationship or that asymptotic like, uh, phenomenon that, that Zach explained. I do think that's true, but I think just most people are unlikely to get there and therefore I just wouldn't think of it that way. And I think, again, we see enough examples of like someone thinks they're approaching that asymptote, but really they're not. And it's these practical constraints more than anything, right? Maybe they need a new perspective on their training. Maybe they need, um, you know, uh, a shift in their priorities, such that training becomes a little bit higher in the priority list to start to actually approach that true asymptote. So again, on paper, my answer is yeah, probably. I think like that perspective is probably true. Like if you gain quicker now, you're kind of taking away from what you could gain in the future because I do think that asymptote exists, but practically I would not encourage people to think of it that way because I just think that's so unlikely that you follow that curve perfectly throughout your training career, such that, you know, you're one of training, you have great training skill, great control of lifestyle variables. It's at a sustainable, but high enough spot in your priority list that it's, you know, things are chugging along nicely. Whereas in reality, these things go up and down for a lot of folks. Um, and these skills need to be developed, right? You, you know, become a much better lifter at year 15 than you do at year one. And that has effects on what that, this theoretical curve looks like. So again, on paper, yes, is my answer. Practically, no, is my answer. Yeah. I'd say the thing that comes to mind for me, just to say that in a different way, that maybe makes sense to me is that calculus really only is practically relevant, assuming you do hit the practical cap in both scenarios. If that's not the case, which we've already all said that that typically is not the case, then the approach that's letting you have a faster rate of progress is also getting you to a higher absolute level or, or, um, a practical peak of your physique. So that sounds like you're saying two things. Um, but really they're the same concept is essentially those rates of different differences in the rate of progress. Like Josh said, you're having a faster rate now to have a slower rate later that only ends up being practically relevant in terms of them netting the same thing. If in both cases, you're actually reaching the practical cap, which again is, is questionable and all of our kinds of experiences. So in that case, the faster rates of progress end up also leading to the most absolute progress in that sense. So I tend to agree. Yeah. I love your discussion there. Everything made complete sense. And I think along the same lines, my concern with this line of thinking is it's kind of this minimalist line of thinking. And again, it is kind of this, uh, pessimistic line of thinking. And I find that the people that start thinking that way, it's kind of like the results follow. Like if you think they're going to be slow, they're going to be slow. But if you think optimistically and you have that kind of, uh, you, you guys into anime much, uh, Naruto? No, that's exactly, you know, you've watched it. Yeah. So, uh, for the, the anime list is, uh, the, the saying I really liked that at least Naruto says is date boyo or believe it. So he's just like, he's going to become that Hokage, even though it's like a goal that seems completely, uh, like out of his reach, he just believes it. And so this is kind of this, it's not like a ignorant mindset that I like to have. It's just a very optimistic mindset. I like to have with my own training. And I like to encourage that with my clients, like believe that this is all you are doing your best. All professional athletes are delusional. Like I, I think about that all the time, like literally all professional athletes have a delusional level of confidence that leads to higher levels of performance than you could achieve otherwise. Um, and yeah, it's the, the stereotypical protagonist mindset, whatever you want to relate that to all of those things go hand in hand. The person, Kobe Bryant, who thinks he's going to make the game winning shot, even though he's went over 45 throughout the game, like it just, it's delusional level of confidence that all aspects of life, that, that kind of mentality, I think, although clearly like from a rationalistic perspective is illogical, it doesn't matter because practically it tends to pan out. So yeah, I think for a lot of reasons, whatever that be practical or, or whatnot, I think that type of an attitude is purely from an outcomes-based perspective is the way to go for sure. I agree. It's a do your best sort of, because why would you do less than that? I just think it's a good winning attitude for life and in the gym as well. I think, um, I, Zach, I could not agree more with what you guys are saying. Like, uh, one of my clients who, Zach, you also know his name is, uh, Josh Joaquin. He got, um, second at, uh, junior nationals and he got second at junior nationals. And then I think it was like seven weeks later or like eight weeks later, uh, he added like over 50 pounds to his total. Like, the point I'm making is he got second at junior nationals after training seriously for powerlifting for like a year. And it just like, just insane response to training. And when you, when I, when you ask him to do something in the realm of athletics, it's just like, okay, I'll do it. Right. Or like, of course that's going to happen. Of course I'm going to squat 800 pounds. Of course, I'm going to eventually squat 800 for five pounds. That's not a question. It's almost just like, it's just, yeah, it's really interesting how, um, how some folks have that attitude and some don't. I agree completely. The other part of me, and I think, uh, the listener at this point will realize Zach and I are often of two minds on many things, which I would like to think is healthy, but can sometimes be difficult to listen to. So I appreciate you bearing with me, but I also at the same time, think it's reasonable for a more general population type of individual or just someone saying, Hey, this is important to me. My health is important to me. My physique is important to me. My strength levels are important to me, but I'm also cognizant of the return on my investment, whether that be on a session time scale where you're thinking about how much time do I want to spend in the gym before I deal with other life responsibilities, or to what degree do I want to, or for how long do I want to prioritize training such that I'm spending, you know, more than five or six hours in the gym every single week. And if I continue to do that for another decade, realistically, what kind of results can I expect to get? Again, I think if, if you really want to take this as far as you can, you should think optimistically about it. And there's always a stone to uncover. There's always something more to learn. There's always something to try, et cetera. And I think you should have that optimistic perspective, but at the same time, it's like there are going to be diminishing returns. You're going to get, you're going to get less net results from the second half of your training volume than from the first half of your training volume. You're going to get less net results from year 10 to 20 of your training career compared to year zero to 10. So I do think it's worth thinking about that perspective, just based on your values and your priorities. I think once you get to the point where you are, like, if you get to the point where you're happy with your physique or you're happy with your strength levels, I think it's totally reasonable to say, Hey, I'm going to train less because I'm just interested in maintaining this or moving forward slowly or switch training endeavors to something that maybe allows me to maintain the muscle mass I've built, but I get to go be a noob at something else. And I can go be a noob and improve rapidly training three hours a week at that, as opposed to 10 hours a week here. Um, I don't really like verbalizing that because I'm often like encouraging people to think of that first example, right? Like Zach articulated, but again, I'm of two minds of that. And I think it just depends on values and priorities. And I think that's something that that, um, is worth chewing on, um, for a lot of people. Really, really good additional point, because at least the people I coach, like a lot of them are those maximizes and they, they really do focus on trying to get everything they can from a muscle growth perspective. But then there are people who I coach who are of the mind that they think they have to do that, but actually they don't because they don't have the goal of stepping on stage and being this like maximized muscle growth machine. And it's a case of, well, actually just as you said there, Josh, you can pull back substantially and still see good progress. And I think that's a two kind of thought process people need to have is yeah. What's maximizing things in the short term, but then what's the long term and what's actually sustainable. And I think the people who pose this question of like, Hey, don't rush, like enjoy the ride. Like you're just going to reach this limit anyway. I understand at least one of the things that I take from that is like that sustainability aspect, which I think even if you're trying to maximize yours after that in mind, because there's no point if you have to deload next week, because you did everything this week, you just kind of blew your load for lack of a better term. So no, I think that's a good perspective. Definitely tab Josh, because there's going to be a vast majority of sorry, a lot of the listeners probably close to half who don't need to worry about and actually for them maximizing muscle growth is like, Oh, completely overrated. Yeah, totally. I mean, I'm sure you guys see it all the time. Um, and like, I feel bad saying this because it's, it doesn't come from a bad place. Um, but like, you can like cringe a little bit when you get a question about optimality, when that should just be like the 10th thing that that individual should be thinking about. Um, like just show up to the gym, you know, at least three times a week for, for a year. Like that's, that's the first step, right. Um, as opposed to even worrying about like what your set volume is or what your range of motion is like, sure. Those things are worth thinking about, but like, yeah, just having, um, the, the, the lowest hanging fruit is, uh, is not the details. And I think that's worth, uh, it's worth a reminder for all of us every now and again. Yeah. Don't put that horse before the car. That's not a good move. Um, yeah, very well said. Hi guys, Steve here. Just wanted to take a moment of your time to remind you of our online coaching service at Revive Stronger. We pride ourselves on providing personalized service that will take your physique and knowledge to the next level. If you're interested, check the description and sign up. Next question though. Now we're jumping elsewhere for you, Zach. So I think everyone's aware of the benefits of creatine generally for our training. Uh, as an atti, this is one of our only kind of tools that we've got. Uh, but the question becomes, are the benefits accumulated over time or are they something that just brings you to a new level? Do you have, what are your thoughts there? What can the science tell us? Yeah. That's just something I think about, particularly in the supplementation realm and in a lot of areas. Um, I tend to think about these types of things. So the place this came from is to my knowledge, there are one, maybe a handful of studies on creatine that have a early to midpoint measurement. And the reason that's relevant is because when people typically are talking about creatine, at least this is the way that I have interpreted the marketing or the proposed benefits of it personally. I could be wrong about that, but this is how I interpret it. It kind of sets the stage that if I put myself into two possible worlds, possible world one is Zach who doesn't take creatine and possible world two is Zach who does take creatine. We both train for 12 weeks. The implication is the world that I take creatine, my gains are going to outpace the other version of myself. That, that to me is the implication of when we take creatine, whether it be for strength or whether it be for muscle growth, et cetera. However, we all know that, you know, the, the, the marketing around the loading phase with creatine, there can be a substantial increase in muscle size because of the creatine and its osmolatic, uh, properties initially. And so there was a paper that came out that essentially did a measurement time point immediately after that loading phase. And effectively what it seems to suggest is that creatine is going to give you that bump in your muscle size essentially immediately. But the actual training effect was essentially the same. One study probably needs to be replicated creatines outside of that is the most well studied supplement there is, but it's an interesting idea that I do think warrants more credence and more thought about it. Um, and, and the idea would be there is that essentially if creatine is just giving me this kind of, I think about it as like a, like an injectable pump, like if you're going to pump up like a beach balloon is essentially that kind of an effect. Like right before I go on stage for competition, you know, I get my little beach balloon pump up with the creatine. I go on stage, I get the additional benefits of the fact that creatine is literally making you bigger, but at least in this one study, it's didn't seem to actually modify the training effect that you're actually getting from it. Um, so at least to me, that's an interesting idea to think about creatine and isolation, but also supplementation at large in terms of those longitudinal benefits that you're getting from it. Um, and creatine was just the example that was used in this paper that kind of got me thinking about it. Um, and so I don't know what your guys' experience has been with creatine, um, in particular, but that kind of matches my experience personally. Like, um, you know, when I take it, I might notice, oh man, you know, a couple more reps on the lay extension or whatever, kind of out the gate. But after that, I kind of forget that I'm taking it, which it's a small effect anyway, it's going to be impossible to notice, but I don't know. I guess to me, that's not a implausible world to buy. And if you're essentially only measuring the pre and the post time points in a lot of these studies, creatine is going to make you bigger. But the fact is that that, that size was potentially gained right away. And it, then it didn't actually modify your training in any meaningful way. So again, I am not a creatine expert by any means. I do not know that literature in and out, but I saw that individual paper and it was like, Ooh, that's interesting. And I don't think people think about it this way. Um, and, and so I'm, I'm sure somebody who's, who studies creatine better would be able to get a little more context there. But to my knowledge, that's one of the only studies that has had a similar design to that. Um, so yeah, I don't know. This might be something I have to ask. I believe it's, I'm going to say his name wrong here, because I'm interviewing him not too long, but we set it up a long time ago. No, I've got the name right. I just had to make sure I had the name right. So it's Darren Kando. I believe he was on the paper. I believe he was on the paper. Very cool. So yeah, he's coming on the podcast. So I might literally have to ask him this, this question because my thoughts on it were similar to like the way you interpret it, uh, there, Zach is I kind of thought, Hey, you get saturated and now you can sustain high intensities for longer. You may be getting extra rep or so, but that kind of stays. And so you just have that elevated performance. And so cumulatively you kind of get more and more from it. So like it's, if I was to analogize it, it's like you earn more and then you can invest more and then you get the kind of cumulative benefits of that investment. But it's very interesting to think that you could just take it and you've kind of, once you're saturated, you've just, you've got the benefit from just the, I guess the saturation. Trying to find the papers so I can be 100% sure, but go ahead, Josh. I'll, uh, I'll fill the air while you find that. I, um, there's a, some questions that I like to ask when I'm at like an academic conference or just when I, you know, have a conversation with like, um, other researchers. And one of them is how they conceptualize the performance enhancing and body composition benefits of creatine. And basically what Zach is getting at is like, is it kind of this one time stepwise effect or is it more of this prolonged benefit, almost like compound interest with like investments such that like, okay, over the next six months, you're going to get 5% better improvements compared to the alternative universe where you don't. And then where you don't take creatine and then you get, you continue to get 5% faster rate of growth, which like almost certainly isn't the case because if you were to just take a step back, that would basically look like an exponential curve over a long enough time period. Um, and typically when I pose that question, I get like some sort of blank stare back because I just don't think most people think of it that way. Um, I think most people just think of what did the 8, 12, 24 week study seem to indicate in terms of the between group effect of placebo versus creatine. Um, and I think Zach is not definitely not telling you not to take creatine. I think it's the all signs point to continue to take creatine and it's such a small effect that you kind of have to lean on the research because your personal experience is going to be so clouded by so many other confounding factors that you're probably never going to be able to tell for sure exactly like what's going on with you in terms of your response to creatine. So you should probably still take it, but um, it is, I think it's an interesting like thought experiment in terms of how we take research and apply it and the assumptions that underlie it. Um, and creatine just happens to also be one of the most well-researched supplements, but there's kind of this fundamental concept that I think a lot of folks overlook. Yeah, very well said. I didn't actually answer your question, Zach, on my own personal experience because it's kind of what Josh mentioned there is like imperceptible. Like, I, I don't know. I like it. Some people like to say like they know when they're on or off creating. I'm like, I have literally no idea. Just, I don't know, actually, you know, the last time I didn't take it for an extended time to become properly desaturated. But yeah, it's just something that I've taken because I'm like, Hey, there's upside to it probably, and it's cheap. And obviously there seems to be benefits outside of just like our, um, like muscle growth potential. And I know nothing about that to be clear that I, I, that very well could be. Are we talking to Darren all about that? Other benefits. Yeah. Yep. That's definitely on the table for sure. But yeah, I did kind of think of it like, it's like to me, the way I did perceive creatine was like having a better night's sleep, you're going to see that immediate benefit. But then if you continue to have better nights of sleep, you're just going to continue to see that extra benefit of that. And if you remove the better sleep, now you're back to where you were previously and you're going to be gaining less from it. But it's very interesting to think, yeah, it's people kind of take it as like a presumption, something that comes to mind for me within like even the exercise science research is the fact that you can grow just as well from like high reps and low reps. It's like, but how long has the research been done on that? Or even a blood flow restriction training. That's something I'm doing at the moment, but research has only been done for months at a time to say that it can be used to grow muscle. Like do you adapt to it? And it suddenly becomes not useful. It's, it's like questions we don't have hard answers to at least. Okay, Steve, I'm going to throw another thing out there at you and we can go down this rabbit hole. I'm not necessarily suggesting we go down this rabbit hole, but I'm just going to throw it. Sorry, he is indeed on it. Okay, nice. Again, we do not have to go down this rabbit hole, but Steve, to your point, I think there's another limitation, like to piggyback off what you said of like, okay, in the short term, sure, we can see similar growth between high and low reps. We can see similar growth between X and Y, but like, what does that look like over a training career? Another thing that I think is worth considering is that a lot of times when you take someone's muscle thickness at baseline, or you take muscle cross-sectional area, or whatever your measurement is at baseline for the individual in your study, oftentimes they are not at their all-time, their all-time peak muscularity. Okay. And we know from research that looks at training periods, followed by detraining periods. So taking time off of training and then retraining periods, we know that, or we think we know that that rate of growth upon retraining is faster. So in other words, muscle is relatively eager to regrow previously held muscle. And again, I think it's totally normal to not be at your peak muscularity at a given time, right? Especially for the average study participant. So that is like, I don't have super well-formulated thoughts on this, but I think that's just worth thinking about is that if there are fundamentally different things that are optimal for growing new muscle that you've never held before compared to just regrowing muscle that you used to have, that could just add another layer of limitations to hypertrophy research. So I don't know, like, I hope that makes some sense. Definitely let me know if it doesn't, but to me, that just, that could be a thing. I'm not necessarily like, you know, putting my name behind that as like something we need to completely reconsider, but just another layer of limitation that comes to mind for me. When you mentioned there, Josh, peak muscularity, do you mean they are getting measured at a point where they are, I don't know, 90 or 80% of where they've been before? Yeah. So basic example, let's say you have someone in your study that is 23 years old, but they actually were their most jacked and strongest when they were 20, right? So they were benching 300 pounds and they were holding 10 more pounds of muscle at the age of 20. Now, over the last three years they've lifted, but maybe they've lost some weight. Maybe they haven't lifted as hard and they're now benching, you know, 225 and they're holding a little bit less muscle mass, right? And then you take their pre-testing muscle mass and strength, and then you're basically now testing regrowth of tissue as opposed to growth of new tissue, which is like what you're trying to do, Steve, you are trying to reach new peaks of muscularity. Whereas I think, I don't think this is always the case, but at least enough of the time for this to be worth consideration, research participants are regrowing previously held muscle. Does that make sense? It makes complete sense. It's the reason I wanted to confirm it was because it's nothing I've ever even contemplated. Like as someone who's not in the research, I always just think, hey, the research participants, unless otherwise disclosed, they're at their best. Like, and then we're seeing them above their best in terms of muscle growth. But if they're regaining lost tissue, that throws a complete spanner in the work. So I do think that's, that's very, it's kind of been set on a similar line. Any training intervention, if it's like higher volume or lower volume, it's like, well, if you didn't have like a washout period, which a lot of researchers are now doing, it's like, well, you might've increased or decreased their volume from where they, they were. And that muddies the waters completely. That's another one of the big unanswered questions is like, whether that matters. I could, I could create a great, a great rationale, or at least I think it would be great for why it does matter. I could, I also think I could create a pretty good rationale for why it doesn't matter. And that kind of gets to a podcast, me and you did a while back, Steve, on resensitization. I think that's kind of the underlying concept there of whether that's actually a thing, because if it is, if resensitization is a thing, and I'm not going to go down the rabbit hole of defining that, perhaps you could, you could look up that old podcast. If that is a thing, then yeah, washout periods and controlling the relative change in dosage is important. Not to mention, that's hard to do. If resensitization isn't a thing, then it probably wouldn't matter quite as much. And then you get into this whole discussion of randomization and potentially some of this could be washed out with like within subjects, training designs, things like that. So I don't know if this is like, should be top of mind in terms of limitations for researchers, but yeah, there's just so many layers of, of considerations such that, uh, I think I speak for both Zach and I and saying we are well past the point of like viewing research with rose colored glasses where it's like, oh, okay. It's the end of 2025 that we're recording this. There were these six really relevant papers. And now the way that I program going into 2026 is going to be like quite a bit different based on this study, based on this study, based on this study. Um, it's definitely not how we view it anymore because of just when you, when you really think through all these things and then, you know, again, going back to that, um, discussion of like what growth patterns would look like on paper versus in practice, it's just, it's really the culmination of principles over time, um, is what we're looking for as opposed to anything, uh, overly specific. I think that's where a lot of science communication can go wrong is getting like super, super specific about things. Yeah. I, I love that. And I'm very appreciative for you guys as science communicators, because I think you do a great job of making sure people are aware of the limitations. And also it just goes back to, I don't know, I almost call him the goat of evidence-based practice, Brad Schoenfeld. I just know he's been criticized for his language of, Oh, you sound so uncertain. Oh, you're giving such wide ranges. Like, can't you be more specific, more black and white? And he's always giving his ifs, buts, maybes, like wider ranges to things. And I just appreciate him for that. Whereas I think maybe there has become a time, at least it was a trend for some people to communicate science in a bit more black and white language. Like we know from this study, these, the outcomes, it's like, there's a limitation section for a reason. Like don't speak beyond the science and actually people being critical of that, like D'Souza and people along those lines who have then kind of, hey, guys, we need to chill on how aggressive we're being in our like marketing almost of science that way. I don't know if you have any thoughts, Zach. Yeah, I was going to say, I do think to maybe balance it out a little bit. I do think we try to do our best to balance out the extreme claims and relying on science with the hashtag team science and all that stuff and like appropriately contextualized limitations. But something I've read recently that I really, I think is healthy to grapple with. And also, I think it's just reality is that like scientific inquiry is ultimately the balance of assumptions as essentially what you're trying to do. And so I'll give a super basic example of how this influences your everyday life. Technically speaking, it is a logical fallacy to assume that the sun is going to rise tomorrow based on the fact that it rose today. So every single day, we go about our daily lives with the fact that we are basing our behaviors and our understanding of the world upon assumptions. And so when people say, oh, well, studies are limited because you use untrained individuals or studies that are limited because you use trained individuals in this case, and we have to account, all those things are all valid. But at the same time, all information that we draw into our eyeballs, and as I often like to say, ingest in our meat computers, all of those are riddled with assumptions. And it's ultimately the balance of those assumptions to help us make generalizable principles and make decisions. So that's just my slight pro research. It's still good. It's limited, but it's good. And it's the best tool that we have to come to knowledge. Because there's no way to prove that the sun's going to come up tomorrow, right? The laws of physics could change in an instant. And so we're always baking in these assumptions to everything that we make. And I was going to say this too, is that like, a lot of the things you guys are bringing up is there's a ton of hate on using untrained individuals. But for a lot of reasons, I've kind of made it my personal. Yeah, I guess it's my personal stance at this point is like, you have to show me a reason why that's not generalizable. If there is a sufficient sample size, and the question is something that isn't entirely flawed, for example, there may be like a skill issue with a certain research question and untrained individuals, for the most part, I still think that that pattern would emerge with enough people. And it gets rid of a lot of the issues you guys are mentioning in terms of the pollution of the individuals entering the study. So I don't know, there's for every gimme, there's a gotcha, you know, there's, there's, there's always, always things you got to balance. And that's why replication and seeing multiple studies that are saying the same thing from, from different angles in different areas is obviously extremely important. But, but yeah, that's, that's my little pro research rant. Hopefully that was somewhat helpful. Yeah, for sure. I think we're talking about the limitations of research, but there's far more limitations within anecdote and like day to day living where people are drawing like success leaves clues. So yeah, research isn't perfect, but it's one of the best tools we've got to know where we're going. We can actually jump to a new question here, I think, after discussing that one. And I'm going to put this one towards you, Josh. And I think it's a really interesting question. It makes me uncomfortable. So that's how I know it's interesting is the question of can performance be impaired and still produce hypertrophy? Ooh, I'm glad you want, you put this one towards the end, Steve, because this is where you start to get into this ongoing debate about like hypertrophy outcomes versus strength outcomes. And I don't even know if I'm going to go down this road of like edema and swelling, which is, has been a relatively big thing over the last, uh, I don't know, year, year and a half. But I think this is a really, really interesting question. Um, and I think probably the best way that like I, I can conceptualize this and hopefully this makes sense to the listeners. People often say like, Hey, more is better. So we see a dose response relationship in terms of various training variables, most notably would be, um, training volume and proximity to failure. So if you train harder and you do more, it seems from a principle-based perspective, you're going to get more muscle growth. That seems to be the case. Okay. But almost across the board, what that is followed with is so long as you can recover from it. And I think that is great general advice. Don't necessarily take this as me like pushing back against that advice because you obviously need to recover, generally speaking, over a long enough time period, such that, you know, going back to sustainability that you're not like completely, uh, always have like mood disruptions or sleep disruptions, or you struggle to get out of your chair because there's so much aches and pains. Like again, generally speaking, I think that's accurate, but when I like put my analytical hat on the way that I think about that is like, what does that actually mean? What does that actually mean? Recover from the workload? Um, because I think some people take it to mean that you can always, that you're basically maximizing your strength gains because that is kind of one of the best ways we can actually measure your recovery is like, if you are overreached. So if you are not recovered, then your performance will be down. Um, obviously like any given set or any given session here or there is not that big of a deal, but on average, if that's the case, then okay, you're probably overreached and you're maybe not recovering from it. Um, but we also know that peaking is a thing such that if you were to cut your volume in half or maybe even like skip a session or two, you might come back even stronger. So like now you have like maximized your recovery. So I think a question that's worth thinking about is like, okay, yes, you need to recover from the workload, but like to what degree do you need to recover from the workload? Um, I've even seen the case for like, if you are getting stronger week to week, then you could be doing more. I think that's a definitely like too extreme. I would not take that stance, but I think maximizing your progressions in the gym or your, your, uh, how, how much stronger you're getting week to week on a short timescale is probably not what's best for long-term adaptations, right? Again, there's a reason why in the short term power lifters will do a taper. Um, they'll take a light session or two. They'll take a light week or two to enhance their performance. So there's a lot of ways to go from here, but I'll, I'll pause there and see what you guys have to think before I go too off the rails here. Again, my, there's a long way of saying, I think we should consider that phrase. We should reconsider that phrase if you can recover from it and, and be a little bit more specific about what exactly that means. Yeah, I've definitely said that phrase before and my, if recovered or my objective way of assessing if someone's recovered would always be, I may have heard this is the exercise science definition of recovery. You guys might be able to confirm for me because I actually know I've heard this and not read it somewhere where it's in like published research or something, but basically you can repeat your performance, at least repeat your performance. So if you did max lift of a hundred times 10, six, four, then next week you could do that again. That's kind of like, Hey, that's you've recovered anything less than that. You're under recovered. Anything beating that you're also recovered. Just, is that right? How do you feel about that definition? Zach, you want to go for it? Definitions are tricky to me. Cause like, I think that can be common nomenclature or common things that people abide by. But I think saying that something's the right definition is that kind of a hard thing to, to prove or anything to me, what you're trying to do when you're saying this is the definition of something is we have a subjective experience of something and objective indicators of that we're trying to link with the subjective experience. And I think that's a decent way of doing it. But in the case of hypertrophy training, I think it just comes down to Josh's question is that we don't have a really good gauge on what matters in terms of fatigue. Can I go into a session and let's say my typical leg press, like you were saying, Steve, for whatever reason is a hundred kilos for 10 on a given leg press. Is it true that if I go in there and all I can muster on that given session is 90 kilos for 10 reps at the same RAR, are we saying that the hypertrophy stimulus that's allowing me to continue to build session upon session is less? Some people would say, absolutely, yes. Some people would say not necessarily. And that's, that's kind of my point is that we have a subjective experience of knowing what it means in a subjective qualitative sense of I am fatigued or I am not recovered, but there's this objective indicator that we can't measure in terms of the ability to achieve a maximal hypertrophy stimulus that we're trying to do a process of linking those two things together. That's really, really hard because we don't have the data that makes that process extremely clear. And I think acknowledging that I think makes people uncomfortable because it, it obviously gives less clear directives when we set up workflows, thought processes, kind of diagrams on, okay, how do I know if I'm recovered so that I can make changes in my training program, have like these formulaic ways of thinking about these things, which are obviously helpful from a practical perspective, but I do think that degree of uncertainty is there. And to me, that is, that's one of the questions I'm just personally interested in the most to get more clarity on in the coming years in terms of intuitively to me, purely looking at historical trends. And some people could say these are confounded by drug use or you're just doing too much. And it's not often a hundred different things you could say in terms of looking at historical trends. But I think it's pretty clear to say most people and in most sports, there's kind of like digging phases where you're objectively not at peak performance or peak readiness for whatever activity you're training for. And then there's kind of expression, you know, phases where you're looking to maximize your performance. Now, hypertrophy is a unique example because the adaptation that we're training for and peaking for kind of the same thing. So it's, it's a unique case, but I still tend to think that there's probably training that is going to be productive and still lead to a net better result that inherently doesn't allow you to maximize your performance on a given session at the same time. That seems right to me subjectively. Now, the process of kind of getting there is where you have to make some speculation and kind of take some, some leaps and bounds in terms of your sources of evidence that you're relying on to support that. But that's kind of just my gut reaction as a coach athlete, those kinds of things. That's kind of where I'm starting from. And then trying to piece those, those pieces together to see if that is a reasonable case to hold, given the outcome data, given some of the mechanistic speculation, et cetera. Yeah. I, I'll just, I agree with your practical take on it, Steve. Like, I think across the board, everyone would agree that like, if you're regularly seeing a decrease in performance and like, you're not recovering. Um, so I think there's, uh, I think that's clear. And I think that's a very good, useful tool. I think we don't, would all be on the same page that like, you shouldn't overthink any one set, any one exercise, any one session, any one week, maybe even any one two week period, but you're looking at generally over time. Um, but yeah, like to Zach's point, you, I think there are things you could do to increase the rate of strength gain or the rate of performance gain that would take away from the hypertrophy stimulus. Does that make sense? Like, for example, you could, like, if you're training a muscle group three times per week and the, the time you train it before the session in question, you like change the muscle length bias or you adjust, um, the RIR downwards or sorry, RIR upwards. So you train further from failure, like you could improve performance for that session. So I think probably the simplest way to put this is that like hypertrophy outcomes are really like hard in practice to measure on a short timescale. And therefore we should focus on the inputs and worry a little bit less about the outputs. I think that's probably like the, the simplest practical take home that I know that I like to, uh, like put into practice for my own coaching practices. Like we have these principles that are like, well, these well-earned principles that the community has from a combination of research and practice. Let's nail those the best we can. And then let's of course zoom out at times, make sure things are moving in the right direction, but let's like not overly worry about whether going from three to six sets for this muscle in this session caused me to only add one rep. Whereas before I was able to add two reps, I just think that those are different questions. Um, and we see strength and hypertrophy diverge all the time in the research. So hopefully that clarifies my position a bit and gives some practical take homes as well. Yeah. One thing I'd say that comes to mind to me and, uh, first time I've been conceptualized this way. So it may not come across as, as I'm seeing it in my head for, for strength. For the most part, the thing that we care substantially about is like our absolute level of performance and obviously the progression thereof, but that's like kind of the hallmark of what we're trying to do. So like in modern powerlifting, for example, there is an absolute fixation on making sure that we come into the most high priority session of the week as primed and able to perform as humanly possible. That absolute performance is a paramount. That's kind of strength. And for hypertrophy, the way that I view it personally is the thing that we care the most about is the relative performance. So the inputs that we are establishing from a hypertrophy training program are necessarily going to decrease our absolute performance. And that's fine. At least from my perspective, of course, it's speculative. So let's just say for, for example, if I set up my leg press program, like a powerlifter, maybe I could do 120 kilos for 10, let's just say that. But when I'm in, in the trenches and I'm establishing all the inputs for hypertrophy that we seem to believe are the most productive, that might decline my absolute performance a little bit, maybe even a decent bit, but a productive hypertrophy program over the long run is still going to have a relative increase in performance, assuming it's over a long enough time scale to measure all those fluctuations of readiness and whatnot are all kind of taken out of the equation. But as Josh said, to me, I worry much less outside of absolute extreme scenarios within the realm of reasonable, practical, et cetera, of the decline in absolute performance that I might get initially, and much more about what is the relative performance looking like as my main indicator of signal, whereas strength would be almost the exact opposite. You still care about gaining strength in our first strength program, obviously, but hopefully that kind of helps. But I think the other thing I'd say from a practical point of view, and Josh, let me know if you still agree with this, is I, for the most part, for hypertrophy training, to me, you're kind of going to know when you're not recovered. And I think that has probably been the mindset shift for me in the past, you know, five years or so is like, I used to kind of think about it as like this insidious, that's what Helms always kind of talks about it as like this insidious downward slope of the curve that you wouldn't know is happening. I tend not to think that's going to be the case very much and more. If anything, it's probably just going to plateau and you're going to not really get any additional ROI. But you're, you're not getting worse gains for training more and training harder necessarily. The thing that you'll, you will pretty quickly pick up on are nagging joint injuries, lack of motivation to train, all of these subjective indicators. And I kind of think about those as the primary indicators and then performance is kind of a leading indicator that can potentially let you know that those things are potentially coming. Like if your performance is tanking relative to where it normally is, and you're not seeing that normal relative increase that we're looking for, it's probably sign that those lagging indicators, the ones that are really, the ones we want to worry about are potentially on the horizon that we probably want to make some adjustments is kind of how I view it. But I don't know if that, that analogy made sense. The, the great Broderick Chavez, who hasn't been on the podcast, hasn't graced our ears for a long time on the Revive Stronger podcast, at least he's ventured elsewhere, said something along the lines of, at least this lines up a bit with what you're saying. It says like deloading is like shitting, like you'll know when you need to. And the kind of, just as you're talking me through those things, that, that kind of quote and analogy came to mind. And just to confirm there, Zach, were you saying that a performance drop is, you see that comes before the subjective drops, or do you see it the other way around where the subjective drops tend to kick in and then you might see the kind of objective point? It definitely could be kind of in both cases, I guess. To me, typically speaking, those, those more, oh boy, we got to really make a change in terms of serious injury, what have you, those things tend to come after some accumulation of, you know, overtraining, if you want to call it that. Whereas a performance decrease in theory, if you knew that was kind of the true signal, and it wasn't just like a normal blip on the radar, that might come before a lot of those things start to accumulate. But I also could very much be, you could have a performance decline because my elbow hurts, for example, that could kind of go in both directions, but it was just a, just an example there. Yeah. I was just thinking, I find it quite rare, at least for myself and with clients to see like across the board performance drops happen before they feel like complete garbage. Yeah. And I think that's, that's largely going to be the experience as long as your training isn't with reasonable bounds to begin with. That's, I think that's the, that's the, the, the case. Like if you're doing absurd, you know, workouts you get from Instagram or whatever, and you're doing 50 sets of quads in a session, maybe it might start to be a little bit different, but yeah, no, I'm with you. I think, yeah. It's like 48, isn't it? True. True. But I think what Josh was also mentioning that makes complete sense in terms of, in the short term, you could do things that might increase your rate of progress in terms of the objective strength numbers, but actually decrease the hypertrophic stimulus. Whereas in the longterm, that wouldn't pay off for hypertrophy. And I think at least the way I position it is the ultimate arbiter of, for a lot of naturals in terms of how they're growing is in the long run, how are your like PRs in the hypertrophic rep range? Because yeah, in the short term, who can give a toss really? Cause you should be training hard enough that not so much that you're masking all the progress you're seeing, as you said, Josh, but you should be masking some of it. You shouldn't be like fully fresh all the time when you're training for hypertrophy. That's probably not the best route to go down if we want to maximize things at least. Yeah. And, and that brings up actually a question I'm really, really interested in that, uh, hopefully I can articulate pretty well. So this is actually really related to what we're, we're talking about right now. Um, so basically I guess where we converged, you guys can correct me if I'm wrong that like, yes, you need to recover to some degree. You obviously shouldn't be getting weaker, um, on a regular basis. That's definitely not good. You should be, uh, seeing improvements in performance or in strength over time. Um, but you don't necessarily need to maximize your improvements in strength or performance over a short time timeframe, which I think is that concept right there can be overlooked. So I'm glad that we like, we worked through that, um, kind of a related concept that I'm really, really interested in is whether like the fatigue state of a muscle. So I guess if you just think of it as like how close you are to that muscle being at like peak performance levels, whether that has an influence on the hypertrophy stimulus that you can get. And this is, again, this kind of like is all interrelated to this question of like, to what degree do you need to recover from training when you're like, or to what degree does your training need to be recoverable? And like, to what degree should you optimize for that? Because there are definitely some camps, which I think like the reasoning is relatively logical that like, you should avoid things like, um, long muscle length bias training, maybe even higher rep ranges, um, certain exercises, certain rest periods that are going to, um, like make the training less fatiguing, right? So that you can go into the next session, stronger, fresher. And if you look at like the, the RAR research, if you look at the volume research, that would kind of push back on that position because we do see, or I should say, we don't see this inverted U phenomenon. So in other words, we don't see this clear point within practical bounds that more volume is actually going to lead to less muscle growth. So basically if, if you did have to come into a session really fresh to maximize the hypertrophy stimulus, you would eventually see that downward curve of the inverted U because you did so much volume in the preceding session, such that it's taken away from your ability to elicit hypertrophy in the next session. Um, so that's kind of where we're at research wise is like, again, you could come up with a logical argument for why you want to be as fresh as possible. You could also come up with, I think a pretty evidence-based, uh, explanation for why that isn't something to like prioritize in your program design. We seem to be able to still elicit a hypertrophy stimulus, even if you're pretty dang fatigued, presumably from the preceding session. The way that I think about research these days, and this is very, very different from when I first got into it, is I think in a lot of ways we should do experiments that test the extremes. Which I think to some people they might initially disagree with. And of course, you know, even after thinking about it, people might disagree with me and that's, I totally respect that. But I think it's surprisingly hard to detect differences between conditions and research. I think a lot of people, um, overlook that because training works, especially progressive training, especially in folks that haven't been training for a decade plus. So it can be hard with small samples to pick up on, you know, slightly better results from a certain condition just because of all the noise that goes into that. So that leads me, at least as of when we're recording this, I, I reserve the right to change my mind that we should test extremes. So something that our lab is starting to go down the path of in terms of like a research question, and shout out to Seth Hinson, who is spearheading this in our lab, is basically again, testing the extreme of that. And specifically the extreme is like whether fatigue harms your ability to elicit a hypertrophy stimulus. Okay. So basically what this can look like is let's say, and this isn't like the exact study design, there's still a lot of work that needs to be done in order to inform this eventual study design. But just as an example, let's say you have like a pretty standard, let's call it a 10 week training program with three sessions per week. Right. Um, so that would be 24 total sessions over the course, or sorry, there'll be 30 total training sessions. I was thinking eight weeks, 10 week study, three sessions per week, 30 total training sessions. So that could be like your control group, if you will, or like your traditional training group. What you could also do with another group is you could say, okay, we're going to do those 30 sessions, but we're going to get them done like almost every single day. So you're basically volume matching, but you're doing it in a shorter timeline. And therefore you're coming into each session, presumably quite fatigued. And the question becomes, does that take away from your ability to, uh, elicit a hyperspace stimulus? Now, what does that do for us? That informs higher level principles because I don't like, you know, we've, we've done research and, and meta regressions on volume. We've done them on RAR, we've done them on frequency. And those are, those are helpful, I think. But I, I even think like what's more important than that is like one level higher of principle-based thinking, right? Like if you were to combine the RAR meta regression and the volume meta regression that we've done, I think what's more important than the specifics of either of those is that you got to train hard and you should do more of it. And there isn't this clear point where you get worse results. Like to me, that's the takeaway. Um, this line of research almost tests the extreme of that to see if we can get to a point where you do, where you do, uh, take away from your ability to elicit a hypertrophy stimulus due to really hard training that preceded it. Um, so that is, that's something that really excites me is these study designs that almost test extremes to see if we can get to a point in laboratory settings where we kind of like test the counterfactual. Um, and if we don't see that it attenuates your ability to elicit a hypertrophy stimulus, in a lot of ways, it's like, man, we just nailed home that principle. If it does, then it's like, okay, now we can get more specific. At what point does that occur? And that can lead to a whole line of research. So hopefully I did an okay job of like explaining that. Um, and also pointing out along the way, how I've come to think about the role of research, which might be worth consideration for some of the folks listening. Am I right in saying, Josh, that study is almost trying to answer the question if junk volume really exists in that the way I kind of think about junk volume is that the fatigue that that extra set produces, it outweighs any extra stimulus you get. So you're actually getting worse results by adding it. Is that kind of what you're testing? I would say more generally, it, it could be junk training as opposed to just volume itself. Um, because there's more than just volume that could factor in here, right? There's muscle length, there's rest period, there's, um, proximity to failure. There is the amount of time you have between training that same muscle again. Um, so I think my answer is yes, but it's not necessarily specific to volume. Um, it's more just this, yeah, this higher level principle of like, Hey, can we, can we find a way in a laboratory setting to do too much or not? So, so yeah, can you, can you do junk work? Can you do work that's just taking away from your ability to have a good workout the next time, the next time around? Hopefully that makes some sense. The way that I think about it is essential. Let's just say for an arbitrary units, we can elicit 10 stimuli for hypertrophy with a set to failure. If we do that set to failure at 50% of our performance capacity, how many units of hypertrophy stimuli do we get out of it? Um, a lot of people would say substantially less. You could make a compelling argument that the research would suggest otherwise. And that's kind of the idea is we basically take a hypertrophy training program, we squish it down so that your performance capacity for that same amount of total training is substantially less in theory. If, if you think that the hypertrophy stimulus elicited by a set to failure is linked to your performance capacity, it should be substantially less in terms of the amount of growth that we achieve. If that's not the case, then basically the training principle of train as hard as you can for as long as you can that you, that you've eloquently kind of put together. The options that you have for that are essentially boundless because I think, as Josh said, some of the details are still getting scratched out, but we'll probably try to test it within practical bounds of like, as extreme as you possibly could go. And it's, it's, if there's not compelling evidence in that kind of scenario, it's like, in all practical cases, maybe this is probably not something I have to worry about a ton. Now, obviously maybe it's an isolated muscle group, all the, all the caveats go along with that. But as Josh said, the interesting thing for us, for the most part at this point is like, okay, what is the, what are the types of studies and designs that are necessary to inform these super high level principles? Let's robustly go after those questions because those are the things that are the most helpful when we actually design training programs and make decisions instead of tweaking super minute details that really from a practical perspective are kind of irrelevant. And it's like, you know, testing three versus three and a half minute rest intervals. It's like, that's not really the point. The point is, do I need to be recovered by the time I get into the next set? Right? Like those kinds of things. Yeah. I think a good example that comes to mind was there was that recent research that looked at like 20 second rest versus like, I think it was like two minutes or it was extremes basically. And that's to help answer actually give an answer to like, is there too little rest to cause like a hypertrophic stimulus or what have you? It actually gives us really good practical take home. So at the moment I'm on the side of agreeing with Josh that these extremes are quite useful, although people argue obviously they're not going to be ecologically valid always, but hey, it's, it, that doesn't mean it's better because it's ecologically valid, right? Yeah, I know. In a lot of ways, like the extreme is the right, like first step. Um, and then depending on what you find when testing that extreme, then you get into the details. So like shout out to the mass research review, cause they've been on this, like from the jump with the, uh, pre-training stretching literature. The initial research on that was quite extreme in terms of intensity and duration. And if you jumped to the gun and said, therefore all pre-resistance training stretching is bad, then that would be, that would not be the right way to go about it. That would be okay. On the extreme that like, just don't, don't be extreme for now. And then once we get a little bit more detail, maybe we test different forms of stretching, maybe we test different intensities, durations, we can get a better idea of like the dose response, if you will. Um, so it wouldn't be like, Hey, if we find that in an extreme scenario, we can elicit so much fatigue that it takes away from your ability to elicit hyper-resistance. That doesn't mean everyone should cut their volume in half and train at five RIR. Instead, it means, Hey, we can, um, we can dig deeper. We can see maybe where that point is. On the other hand, if we test that extreme and we don't find that fatigue can, uh, can take away from your ability to elicit a hypertrophy stimulus, then it's like, okay, there's really no need to like pull back from there. Maybe you just replicate that in different muscles and just kind of confirm that's the case and take feedback from peer reviewers in the community for future studies. Um, so yeah, I couldn't agree more with what you guys were saying. Yeah. I kind of do it as like a two-step process is like arguably the most useful thing initially that research is well-equipped to do is establish the directionality or the bounds of what is possible is kind of the way that I think about it. And then you come in after that has been relatively well-established. Like we're pretty sure this is kind of how it seems to be working. And here are the bounds of what's possible with this. Then you put it into let's manipulate some of these variables to make it as ecologically valid as possible to the population that I want to generalize it to. And that's going to give you a much more realistic expectation on the magnitude of the effect. And so an easy example for this that we've talked about before is the classic Mayo, uh, hamstrings, uh, uh, study. So that study was essentially isolating the decision between prone leg curls versus seated leg curls. And that's great. That helps us understand the directionality of this effect in this specific exercise, these specific muscles, et cetera. But if people take that and say, one, I should only be doing seated hamstring curls or two, this is the magnitude of a difference I would expect in a fully fleshed out program with RDLs, uh, leg curls, other sorts of hip extension movements that would all train those sorts of movements versus this binary decision between a seated and a prone hamstring curl. The magnitude of effect there. Wow. That's, I didn't expect that. Uh, the magnitude of effect there in that scenario is going to be substantially different than testing those things in isolation. And arguably you could, you could even make, um, in that kind of specific scenario because of the prone leg curl is going to train some things, um, that the RDL or, or things might not, maybe it's not a good idea in that case to completely throw the baby out of the bathwater. And so like that to me is the process. That's the most practical useful because we get an idea on directionality wise, what does this do? What are the bounds in terms of what is the largest possible difference this could possibly make in theory? And then we move towards, okay, what is the actual magnitude of effect I would expect in a situation much more closely to the one that I would apply it. And that kind of a way of contextualizing things that I also think is helpful. We often talk about the, the research ticker that people kind of use social media as at this point, in terms of new study drops, Instagram posts come out, new preprints out there. People already got the full length YouTube videos ready to rock. Like that kind of pace of things, I think eliminates the distinction between those two things where we're mostly dealing in the first or mostly dealing in the second. And it kind of eliminates that nice flow of, okay, we understand what this is doing. Broadly speaking here are the bounds we might expect, but then when I actually look to apply this, what's the kind of magnitude of effect that I'm looking at? And I think that helps to elucidate things practically probably the best. Yeah, very well said, Zach. And also Josh, I really appreciate your guys's perspective and your voice within this space, because I think it's very much needed. And I'm excited for more of this to come into this next year. And I think this is going to be coming out early 2026. And I think it's a great episode for people to start kind of thinking about some of these things when they are consuming this podcast, when they are consuming kind of evidence-based or scientific information, some of the limitations, what we can take from that, what we can't take from that. And I just, again, appreciate your guys's perspective. I will make sure to link your own podcast, which you guys said you're doing one episode a month. So hopefully that's continuing throughout 2026. I'll make sure that's linked in the description along with your Instagrams. But I do want to give you an opportunity if there's anything you guys are working on, anything you want to announce, or if it's just those things so that people can head to learn more about what you guys are doing. I would just, yeah, check out the, our YouTube channel is probably the best place to find the podcast, Data Driven Strength, or just go to datadrivenstrength.com, sign up for the newsletter. That's a great place to keep up with what we're doing. Yeah, thanks for having us on, man. Since this is going to go out in early 2026, something that folks can look out for is a preprint of kind of this novel drop set protocol that we investigated. So it actually, Steve, I think we talked about this on a, on a previous podcast using a tonal, which is a wall mounted device that uses electromagnetic resistance. Yeah. So they have burnout mode and then they also have a new mode called drop set mode, which they're similar, but they are slightly different. And our lab was fortunate enough to do some research comparing like traditional straight sets to this, their new drop set mode. And I think it's a really cool study because it's cool technology, but it's also an opportunity to test a concept in a really, really cool way. So that will definitely be preprinted by the time this podcast. It's out already now. Okay. It's definitely out. And yeah, shout out to Seth Hinson, who I also mentioned before with some of that fatigue research, um, cause he spearheaded that and he did a great job. And yeah, I'm just really excited about that area of research too. Cause I think the, uh, I think it's university of Tampa has a paper on my reps coming out relatively soon. Um, which I know that they've had that data like presented at conferences before. So I've kind of heard through the grapevine a little bit about it, but, um, excited to see that manuscript. And I think that's a really interesting area of research kind of around like advanced training strategies, time-saving strategies, and like what we're looking for, what we're looking to achieve conceptually there. Um, so I'm really excited about that area of research as well. And we'll, we'll, that work will be out as of, uh, the time this is out. So anyway, yeah, Steve, I think that's he's Josh Bradshaw. I'll probably have him on the podcast soon to talk more about that. And yeah, anyway, go for it. Looking forward to it, but yeah, appreciate, uh, you having us on Steve. Of course. Yeah. Not too much to have. I appreciate it always. Steve always learning something, talking to you. So appreciate it as always. And hopefully, uh, hopefully, uh, 2026 is a good year. Thank you so much guys. And thank you for listening. We'll catch you next time.