 narsin,scem contag contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin,scem contagion, naringin, nine years weekly episodes which has led us here. Started the podcast in 2016. I still had my hair, way less muscle than I currently have, didn't have a pro card to my name and just basically was getting started within the fitness industry as a whole and now I've been here working as a full-time online coach for over a decade which is amazing and yeah time flies. It truly truly does and this podcast started as just a kind of passion project to get more information out there. Kind of to talk about the origins just for a little bit here. I started this podcast off to go into some seminars from people who were evidence-based practitioners sharing amazing information and I had further questions after this period of time and I wanted to ask those questions and thankfully these amazing people and I'm thankful of all my amazing guests who have continued to come on the show, allow me to ask them questions, to share this information and selfishly get answers for myself and so that has always been kind of the roots of the podcast and I hope you guys agree that we've kept to those roots. I always like to play the role of student and let my guests do the talking. So three of my favorite guests are returning for this special episode, episode 500 and of those who have been listening to podcasts for quite a while, you will be very fond as I am too of some of the roundtables I've done and three amazing guests who have done multiple roundtables together include Eric Helms, Mene Henselmans and Mike Isretel. Those who remember episode 100, 105, 110, 115, 120, 125, 130 where we did some of the first roundtables that were kind of available and these guys came together and really just dug into tons of nuance surrounding hypertrophy training. I think if you go back and listen to those episodes, so many of those take-homes and pearls of wisdom still hold up today. They're great episodes. This one however, a little bit different. I try and open some quite open-ended questions and dive into some kind of new discussions hopefully and some things that you maybe haven't heard these individuals talk about before. So guys, thank you again for being here. Let this be my gift to you and as a thanks maybe to me and to the guys on the show. Please do share this with anyone you think that might benefit from it. Tag myself and the other guys on social media. Let us know that you're enjoying it. Leave us a comment, a review, a like, a subscribe. Appreciate you guys as always enjoy. So guys, it's amazing to have you here and I thought I'd throw you or someone, whoever wants to take this question first, in the deep end. The question is, what's something you believe about training or nutrition or coaching or it could be something really out there but hopefully specific to those, bodybuilding, that most people don't? So what's something you believe that most people don't believe and you're still okay with that? So something, I don't know, that you do in your practice or you keep to yourself that maybe you don't tell others but is there anything you currently do or think that others don't? Does anything spring to mind for any of you? It might not. I've got fucking a lot of those but most people have probably heard my bullshit before. Yeah, let's start with Mike. Go on, Mike. Damn it. I think soreness is an incredibly useful indicator about growth and I think that ways it should be nuanced but I think soreness has a very, very tight relationship to growth, delayed onset muscular soreness and I think I'm maybe one of the only people in the evidence-based community saying dumb shit like that and I think it's defensible. So that's my thing. I have tons of other ones. I think the drug revolution coming in the next 10 years is going to functionally end fitness because everyone will be fit just by taking drugs but you know that's a typical shit that gets Captain America over here shaking in his seat. That's not the America I grew up in, quote Eric Helms. So Mike believes about soreness being a pretty useful indicator and to guide training practice for hypertrophy. Menno, Eric, do you agree, disagree? How do you, I mean hopefully you're disagreeing because otherwise that didn't go down too well. Menno, do you want to take it or actually Eric? Sure. Do you want me to just go into that or do my own weird belief? I want to hear Menno's weird shit, man. Okay, go for your weird stuff. I would say that most people's recovery capacity is not limited by any neuromuscular sense in practice. I think most people's recovery is limited first and foremost by motivation slash their mental state, secondarily by injury tolerance, and only in a tertiary sense by actual neuromuscular capacity to recover from the training stimulus. Eric, let's go on to your belief and then we can see if there's any riff on you guys' between them, if you feel the same way or also it's just weird to one of you. You can tell Eric wasn't thinking about how to say his own shit. He was thinking about how to red team what Menno and I were saying. Yeah, I'm just here to win and that's it. No, no, the, I was thinking about, because the thing is that I communicate, I do a podcast twice a week basically where I talk about my thoughts on stuff. I don't know that there's much that I believe that I haven't shared. So I kind of had to think a little bit outside the box. So I think, yeah, the, something that I haven't maybe completely articulated that I believe that I think a lot of people would be resistant to in the evidence-based community is that the specific programming and the specific style of periodization and the approach you take to hypertrophy training matters tremendously less than I think we want to believe with the level of structure that we typically have if you check certain boxes. I think when we look at the collective aggregate data and the experiences and, and the anecdotes of who can succeed, even when you kind of think about people at similar levels of genetic talent, time, et cetera, um, if you get kind of just almost the area under the curve, right, it sort of doesn't matter. Um, and that's not to be totally nihilistic, but I think it gives people a lot more flexibility in their training. Um, I think you could do things that would be technically not periodized and you could do just as well as something that technically was quote unquote periodized. And I think a lot of that's because periodization as it originally was conceptualized, those were performance outcomes. And the more and more I read data on hypertrophy, the more and more I see it as agriculture rather than I see it as a sport performance training, if you will. And it's creating the environment and putting all the things and watching it bake. And I think you could come in every day and change exercises within certain bounds for certain muscle groups, especially the single joint, and you could change rep ranges. And if you train sufficiently hard and you got everything else in order, it probably wouldn't matter. And that's something that me of five years ago, eh, six, seven years ago would have just been like, you can't do that. So not that's, I think there's, there, there are ways to do that wrong to where that statement is, is sufficiently incorrect to, to not be really helpful, but there's also ways to do it right where it is correct. To summarize periodization for bodybuilders doesn't matter a great deal, as long as you're not doing any of the core fundamentals very wrong. Yeah. And this is going to be something that does actually get almost codified and systematized in the third edition of my books. So I got to talk about, what, what, what can we, yeah, yeah. Yeah. I turned that into a sales pitch, which is great. Yeah. I, I, I, I think you can defensively state certain things, certain principles of a degree of variation for certain variables, um, might be helpful in certain ways, indirect ways, but I think, um, that is about it. Uh, so, but that doesn't mean it shouldn't be focused on or included. Um, but yeah, so. Nice. Is there anything there that any, each one of you have said that you put any of you particularly feel that you don't agree with that person? Does that make sense? I think it's all about perspective. I think if I wanted to disagree with that, both of those, I could, I have acutely overtrained locally to three muscles in my body on separate occasions, contravailing Menos point. I did on sheer volume. Um, I think that if they're, uh, for advanced athletes trying to eke out the very best, best results that they can by placings, I think periodization matters an enormous amount, but that's just me trying to be disagreeable because if I take the other approach for 99, more than 99% of all people, you're highly unlikely to overtrain and your motivation will stop you way before any physiological parameters will because the, you know, 16th session of two hours of the gym for seven days a week is just going to be like, fuck that. I'm just going to smoke a cigarette. I'm not going. And then for, uh, Eric's point, if you attend to the major fundamental factors like intensity, volume, relative effort, and fatigue management, then how exactly you do that? Do you add two and a half pounds every week? Do you add a rep every week? Is there a huge difference between those two? We're talking about the kinds of things that aren't just very small in effect, but also insanely individualized so that what your periodization looks like and what my periodization looks like is going to be a little bit different on those details. And so on the aggregate, the details don't matter. And that's a true statement on individual differences. They could matter, but how you explain that to someone is to say, well, for me, this is the thing that I've found works the best over time. Please don't copy it. I think the big thing here is the real world use of Menno and Eric's insights is brilliant to most people listening because a lot of people would never have come up with those ideas and would have treated the ideas as nonsense. And then it would have gotten them into kind of a smaller frame of mind and, and over worrying about some principles and under applying others. Like for Menno's thing, people look at a program that's five days a week in an hour each time and they go, well, I don't want to overtrain. Um, you know, you've, you, we've all seen the kind of recalcitrance and kind of recoiling away from the 30, 40 plus set studies. Uh, and there's many, many people on the internet, even quite authoritative people. They're like, well, this isn't how you'd really train. Like what's going to happen? You're going to die. You're not going to die. No one died in the study. No one ever overtrained. No one even got weaker. And so like, yeah, no, it's totally true. You can do your program. You'll probably be fine. When you get tired, take a week off or take a week deal. You'll be back. No problem. Um, almost every single time. And to Eric's point, I mean, fuck man, people would be like, so IFBB pro super jacked guy raises his pinkies when he does curls. And that's why he has 27 inch biceps. And that's like the road to insanity. And if you think those are going to pay dividends, but you don't know what your weekly volume is, then you're working it with all the wrong variables. And so I think it's super important that Menno and Eric have voiced these. Actually, from that perspective, I agree wholeheartedly with what they're saying, with what they're saying. And thus I really did just win the debate because they submitted falsities. The claim is no one else believes this and I believe it. So fuck you both. Boom. Mic drop. Menno, Eric, any words of, I want to see if either of you agree with the importance or unimportance of muscle soreness in informing your training. Now, I'll take Mike's lead here and say that there are probably ways I could construct a, they're important, but I don't, I don't think Mike is saying what I would be debating against. It would be a, maybe not a full straw man, but there'd be some straw in that dude, you know? Um, cause I think Mike and I both could construct scenarios where soreness would not be indicative of, of hypertrophy. Um, and we even have data on this. There's a pretty good study that was done in 2019 by Gomez. I want to say where they took what would I would describe as like true intermediates and same volume, eight week study, not novel exercises to them. Uh, similar hypertrophy, both on the numbers and in terms of actual statistical assessment. Um, and one group split, split, split it up like a bro split and the other one split it up into basically full body. And they stayed, uh, significantly sore throughout and they had some repeated bout effect when it came down, but they were sitting at a, basically starting at a six or seven out of 10 soreness scaled down to three or four the whole time. And the other group got down to like one or two when they were doing high frequency training. And it was around zero to one the entire time after that first or second week. I'm probably not perfectly representing this study, but it's just an example where manipulating frequency, but not volume produced as we've seen an aggregate from the large scale metaregressions now, um, didn't produce a difference in hypertrophy and produced a market difference in at least soreness, which is not a perfect proxy for damage. But I think if you were to say soreness is really useful because it tells you which exercise was trained, uh, I'm sorry, which muscle group was trained by the exercise. It does scale with the amount of, uh, you know, work that you did or total, total area under the curve, at least initially before we start developing a robust repeated bout effect. Um, and that we have plenty of observations of people who are not getting very sore, but are still growing. And that doesn't mean they're not getting sore at all, but it's just on a very low perceptible level. Um, and that there are differences between individuals. And if you were to kind of do some type of logarithmic or scaling so that we could look at the smallest amount and actually quantify it, that there wouldn't be some relationship. It just depends upon what Mike is actually saying, but I think, um, the, the full other kind of full dumb way of approaching it is saying, um, it has nothing to do with anything, you know, soreness is completely unrelated. And in reality, like we are, we are almost always creating muscle damage when we overload a tissue. Um, and it does get greatly reduced by the repeated bout effect to the point where I think it's not useful in people who don't have a very strong response, which seems pretty individual because it's just not a strong enough signal to really notice. Um, but I think in people who do regularly experience a degree of soreness, even after they have a robust repeated bout effect, which is some people, um, then it could be, you know, it might tell you something, but there's just a lot of people out there who just don't get that sore, even when you push them a lot harder. Like it is, it's really hard for me to make myself sore. Like if, and you, I, I know some people who are like on the other end of the spectrum, like, okay, are you telling me if you did six sets of RDLs to failure, hanging out in the length and position, you wouldn't be brutally sore the next two days. And I'm like legitimately, I would be sore for one day and I'd be like, oh man, I can feel that. And that's it. And that's just, that, that's the reality for me now. Cause I, I, I, I could probably do RDLs three times a week and I would, before I got significant doms that lasted more than a day in my hamstrings, I would probably injure my back. To be honest. So, so I mean, I'm sure that colors my experience and I'm sure Mike's experience colors his to some degree. Um, but I think, uh, yeah, there, there's a lot of correlation between soreness and muscle growth that may be useful in certain circumstances. Um, but there are times when it is, it's, it's not going to tell you who's going to grow more. Cool. Mano, do you have any additional thoughts on soreness? Do you get sore hamstrings from RDLs? That's one of the ones where I'm like, there's a lot of people get like very sore hamstrings from RDLs. So I was interested to hear that you don't Eric. I'm also one of those people that I like, it's very rare that I actually get sore hamstrings from them, but I've clients who get sore from very little hip hinging. It makes me more sore than anything else, but that's about it for me. Like I have to do something. I'll tell you, I got sore for two days this week because the gym was closed on Madariki, which is a holiday here in New Zealand. I forgot. And I had to go to a different gym and they had the adductor and abductor machine. And I love those, but I don't have access to them. So I did adduction and it was like heavy, hard to failure. And it was one that stretched me to my, my physiological limit, not the machine limit. And my, my inner thought was like, oh shit, I'm sore for two days. But it was an exercise I hadn't done in months to get sore for two days, you know? So yeah. Yeah. That's also the same for me. A novel stimulus is the only thing that gets me sore pretty much. Uh, and hip adduction is a pretty good one. Split squats, uh, will also do it maybe like stiff legged deadlifts if I haven't done those. And in particular when I do them with say triple the volume that I'm used to, that might get me sore. But other than that, it's extremely difficult to get me any, any kind of sore pretty much. Um, and now that I do adduction actually in my program for, to stretch for kickboxing, uh, I also don't get sore from that anymore. So even with length and partials, uh, so yeah, it's sort of for me is just novel stimulus. And in general, I think, um, I have kind of the opposite reaction to Mike's and Eric's use in that sense that I think Mike's views work in his training context, but it's not what most people need to hear. Like most people have, they think that soreness is way more important than it is. So there's like, uh, you know, one of those curves where you have the, the, what is it? At first you think you know everything and then it's completely false. And then in the middle, you realize that it all seems nonsense, but then in the end it actually appears like, yeah, there are some niche cases, some applications where it is useful. I think that's the case with soreness where most people first need to hear, no, soreness does not mean you're not recovered. It does not mean you have to stop training. It does not mean you cannot go to the gym until you're no longer sore. Uh, soreness does not necessarily mean you're growing, that you had a good workout, uh, a workout that makes you more sore. It's not necessarily better than a workout that makes you less sore. So people, I think, overestimate soreness as an intuition. So the first thing people need to hear is that it's not as important as they think. And then we can get to like niche applications where it can be useful. And what exactly does it mean, uh, if someone gets sore, um, with the, uh, with Eric's point, I think that most people in the, I actually agree with the point by, by and large, but I think in practice it doesn't work because if you're basically randomly constructing your program, you don't have a good structure, you don't know if you are progressing and there's a distinction to be made between the stimulus that makes you grow and the ability to detect that you are progressing. And periodization is usually something that tries to accomplish both, but Eric's points essentially, uh, to me seems that the stimulus is what makes you grow. And even if you don't know what the stimulus is and you're kind of randomly alternating it all the time, if you are getting the hard work in and your volume is adequate, then you are probably growing, but you cannot track your progress very well. You don't know if you're growing, you cannot track your strength progression because it's, you know, your programs all over the place. But theoretically, if you just keep doing that, then indeed you can get to your 90 max all the way there. Uh, but in practice it's hard because if you are just randomly imposing stimuli on the body, then you will never know when it is time to increase volume, decrease volume. And also long-term, you don't know if your program is even working. So you don't know if that random stimulus is in the right ballpark or not. I actually do agree with Meno on that. Totally. I, I, I, you know, like my thing, I was like, fuck, I don't have like a clear thing. Like, oh, I actually think four grams of protein is better than two. I was like, people are being too specific of periodization. And I'm going to give you no details about that specificity that I disagree with. And then you guys figure out what I'm saying. So no, I, I didn't make it very easy to understand what I was saying, but I think, um, yeah, so you, I, I totally agree with Meno and I think there are, there are ways logistically and pragmatically where you could be like, ah, periodization doesn't matter and come in and almost randomly train and you would, you would create this problem. So you need some constraints from a practical perspective. I think the issue is that sometimes people set up constraints around things that actually don't matter, don't necessarily help you track better and then actually limit your auto regulatory options when you were in the gym. So they have, this is a really common thing in bodybuilding, whether nutrition or training, they don't actually know which levers matter and which ones don't because people talk about a lot of levers, they get 80% of them, right. And they're fine. But those 20% of levers that they think they must pull, um, are potentially, uh, just getting in the way a little bit. So, yeah. Give an example of hopefully what Eric's talking about. Otherwise it's the wrong example. Um, you're like really crushing high bar squats as your, one of your primary quad exercises on a given day of your program. And you're like in the third week of six weeks of your program and you have to travel and you're at a gym in which they have like an excellent hack squat, just don't have a free barbell. And like, you end up like rigging like the dip stand with an easy bar. So you can still have our squat and you're not competing in high bar squats. You're not a weightlifter, you're not a strong man. And someone's like, why don't you just do hack squats? Like, well, it's not the program. Like it may need like progression, like next week. And it's like, you're delusional and you're losing touch with reality. So like any quad exercise when you're traveling is going to just be a totally fine to interpolate. And the next week you even benefit from the variation of having not accumulated as much high bar squat, specific fatigue, and it'll feel kind of new and fresh and you might get an even a bigger bump. So I think that kind of like dogmatic sticking to a certain progression is the kind of example of Eric. Would you agree that that's kind of example that would get you in some just needlessly like I've, I've been around people. I've traveled with people, you know, you guys remember we used to do like the conference tour together and stuff and people, you know, like they're quite, I'm doing like, you know, like straight bar rows. Like, okay, well there's a two bar row machine here. They're like, well, I can't do that. Like I had to go to another gym. Like what the fuck is wrong with you? And the reality is like, nothing's wrong with that person. They're just under the illusion that like exercise specificity matters. And all those repetition range, like, Hey, like, do you want to come in, like hop in and do sets of five to eight? Like, no, man, I'm doing sets of like 15, this whole mess cycle. Like, okay. Like it's still a good stimulus, man. It's still a good stimulus. There are very niche cases in which you need to continue the progression. Almost all of them are relegated to like, I am a competitive weightlifter. I'm a competitive powerlifter. That's why when you're like training for like, you know, uh, IPF worlds, yeah, you do need an EO rack in a fucking low bar setup for sure. But like, if you're doing hypertrophy training, especially if you're doing it like for, you know, even for competition purposes, but especially just for like, just trying to be jacked, like exercise specificity, rep range specificity. Um, even like how many days you train that week. Like I know people that will travel and there's like, you know, I train Monday, uh, Monday, Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, and like Monday will be like caught up in flights. And it'd be like, do you want to train Tuesday? They're like, no, I'll screw up my whole week. So I got to just do my Tuesday workout. Like, you're going to skip one workout of the week. Cause it's on the wrong day. They're like, yeah, I'm like, oh my God, like just totally losing the stimulus side of the equation and the fatigue management side for the initial stimulus and fatigue calculations constructed this plan. And you're like, this is the plan. And then you're like, okay, what about the actual adjustment of stimulus and fatigue? I can't do that. This is the plan. That's the kind of shit that takes periodization and just makes it really gnarly. Eric, uh, what do you think? That's perfect. And, and I'll, I'll even compliment that example with an example of what you could do to show people like, okay, that stuff doesn't matter. But what, what, what, what could you get away with every, you have two days, you have an upper and a lower and you have your exercise slots and each one, you have three options and your rep range is six to 15. And you take an auto-regulated double progression. Every day you have free, you do an upper or lower when you are much sore than you expected you were, uh, or you are really down in force production and you feel under recovered. You take an auto-regulated deload and you take an extra day off. And if you really need it, you take two and then you repeat upper, lower alternating every time you want to train. Uh, you have the fixed number of sets and you, that's the one thing you adjust based upon how things are going over time and, uh, and checking your progress, making sure that you can actually progress from the six to the 15 rep range. And, uh, you can even have more exercise variation on your single joint and machine-based exercises that really have a very low skill component, but you just kind of rotate based upon what's available in the gym, what you're feeling ready, and you keep good notes of all of your prior PRs. So that's, I think that's another important thing for Menno's point is, you know, your five through 15 RM on each one of these movements and you are not rotating them out. You're not haphazardly rotating them, but you have the option of choosing what you're doing on a day-to-day basis. And they have similar resistance profiles. Um, and you could do that. And I, and, and what I'm actually describing is an auto-regulated, arguably maybe periodized system. Maybe at least it's some elements of it, like fatigue management, deloads, et cetera. Um, the progression system, not just training to failure, but I think many people would also feel that it's not periodized. So that's an example of something that there's no reason I couldn't justifiably say, and that would be worse than X or Y. I think you guys have been far too easy with this question. Cause I find myself agreeing with a lot of what you're saying, and it's meant to be something that most people don't agree with. And you've all agreed to some extent with one another. Well, if you get some other people on this podcast, they'll a hundred percent fucking disagree with that. Yeah, true. And maybe that's very true. I will say with soreness, I'm similar to Menno and Eric, I don't get regularly sore and it does tend to be driven by novelty, but it's absolutely not something I would ignore within feedback from someone or with myself, like with lunges or with like an ab rollout, something that has that really like stretched eccentric, which is just going to screw you up. Like you're not going to be able to do three, four sets of that close to failure without getting ludicrously sore and screwing up your program. Similar with the periodization element from you, Eric, I think it reminds me of kind of following a strict meal plan versus flexible dieting and being like, Hey, flexible dieting actually allows you to hit macros and live life and actually get better results than this strict plan and kind of can produce fine results kind of similar there. And then similarly with Menno, I think you actually talked about it somewhere, Menno, where there was some research on people being told the calorie deficit they were in versus not. And if the people don't know the calorie deficit, they actually do better and just how it's all in the mind in some sense. And just, it made me think of that when you talked about kind of how the mind obviously often is a limiter. And I often see that with like myself, when needing a deload, like my motivation is down and things like that. It's more like my mind just won't keep going, but the body probably could. So I definitely see lots of, lots of the points you're making. I fundamentally see either. I agree with, but like you said, Mike, a lot of people would disagree with those. I don't know if you guys have anything more on that question or I can lead into the next one. Go for it. Cool. So the next one is what do you think is the most misunderstood or misapplied or miscommunicated concept in hypertrophy training? If there's something there that comes to mind, let me know. I'm going to go with Mike because Mike, you seem to be on it. Is there, what's the most misunderstood, misapplied or miscommunicated? Do you think? I'll just share one. I don't keep rank ordered lists of the dumbest shit. I keep rank ordered lists of the smartest shit. And like, there's too much dumb shit to keep rank ordered lists of. I get these questions all the time on podcasts and like, what's the stupidest thing? And I'm like, man, I had to like assemble this list right now in my head. But I'll say that in hypertrophy training, being ultra concerned with figuring out how to produce maximum external or internal force is really doing people a lot of disservice, like weight on the bar, weight in the hands and really thinking like, okay, well, it looks like this study found that a slightly wider grip produced more force in this part of the pecs than a slightly narrower grip. And so I'm only ever benching like this ever again. Or if I do a weight in one session that a week ago, I did the same weight. I'm not progressing. I'm not going to grow. And further, this has by some people in the fitness industry been caricatured into like anything north of really just about five to eight reps is like a waste of time for training because it's just not making, it's not hitting them fast fibers or whatever, like it's supposed to. And a lot of those same folks, this is like, it would be tragic if it wasn't funny or maybe the other way it would be funny if it wasn't tragic, miss like really big picture from an empirical perspective, not so debatable things like the, the, the total supremacy of relative effort multiplied by training volume. So like if you're getting close to failure, training volume is your big fucking thing that you change and people will get ready for this huge attempt at a squat or a bench or a row. That's like a set of three and then a down set of five. And they're like, that's fucking it brother cashed out. Just do some biceps and leave. Like you did two sets, you dumb motherfucker. Like you caused a maintenance level of hypertrophy and sure, like made you feel nice. And the girl at the other end of the gym got wet because she saw the big feel real strong then for the first time in her life. But, um, outside of getting dates for powerlifting groupies, even though the bent row is not a powerlift, this kid gets worse and worse. The more I tell the story, like you're actually accomplishing nothing. And so the, you know, the reason people think that intensity matters in the, in the realm of how much weight you're lifting is I think just mostly down to two things. One ego, which is totally understandable. Like I got a fucking, I got a whole black belt in jujitsu out of pure ego so I can feel like strong and feel like I can beat people up. It's fucking ridiculous. Menno's doing kickboxing for that exact same fucking reason to be able to like feel confident in his own body. It's dumb, but it's a thing. So we're not, I'm not saying I'm better than everyone. And the other reason I think is a little bit more of, I don't know so much dark side, but I legitimately believe most people who look at the, the kind of agglomeration of data on training volume, by the way, uh, shout out to Greg Knuckles and the stronger by science team. They have an excellent article on their website right now about training volume. Um, is that I don't want to do that many sets, man. Fuck that. Like, I don't want to believe that I, that really 25 sets is going to grow me more than 20 per week. I don't want to fucking believe it. And so I'm just going to side with Mike Menser and doing sets of six and feeling all like a lot of gusto and those, those practices work, but you're, you're missing, you're focusing on something that's just probably going to get you hurt sooner than later, which is really focusing on external load at the expense of just cranking the fucking volume. I've recently been able to bring my shoulders up in the past month. You guys, I don't like training my shoulders. I train my shoulders. I have six, uh, six day micro cycle that takes me like eight days to complete four out of those days. I trained fucking shoulders. I hate it. And I do three, four, and then five through a progression of a mesocycle my rep match sets of fucking shoulders. I'm doing functionally 25 sets of shoulders per week. I hate it. Guess what? My shoulders fucking grew for the first time in a year. Eric, you and I had a discussion like this when we were chilling out. You're like, I don't want to admit the training volume is the thing. I fucking hate the training this much. It's real though. It's real. And I've been hurt too many times trying to lift ultra heavy weights for almost no upside whatsoever. And so I think that's one of the big myths that continuously and will continue to rear its ugly head is a really push how much weight you're lifting for a few sets at the expense of just fucking cranking and whatever rep range you find appropriate for set after set after set after set. Really well said. Yeah. I think far too many people here mechanical attention is the king for hypertrophy and equate mechanical tension to weight on the bar. And it's like, uh, that's not really what mechanical tension is. It's airy under the curve mechanical tension, which you can summate by lots of reps and sets. It's just not complicated, but you know, again, they don't, Steve, it's not the intellectual struggle. It's an ego struggle. I have all those in my head as well. It's just like, I want to lift fucking heavy so I can feel swaggy about myself. It's as far as it ever goes. I see something real quick and then I'll be quiet. I just realized I do have something that the data doesn't show that I do believe and it is very specific. I think if your goal is maximal hypertrophy, sometimes you do need to lift heavy and the data doesn't bear that out. Mechanical tension does occur at the sarcomere level, but I think there is, there's crosstalk between bone and muscle and the absolute load that is transferred from the tendon to the bone and also the axial loading for certain exercises is probably one of the things that is going to affect bone the most. And I just don't think we're seeing that over short term time scales and we don't know why people stop growing or what limits their growth. And I do think that every once in a while, putting heavy loads through your body and training and low rep ranges so that you actually just have high, high forces going through your, your bones at some point, I don't know how much you need or how often or how important it is. I think it's important sometimes and I can't prove it with data. How heavy are you talking? What reps are you looking at, Eric? Eric? Exactly. I don't know. One rep max, five rep max. You gotta go, you gotta go heavy enough sometimes, Steve. And if you're heavy, Steve. I'll say this. If you're a bodybuilder who trains almost exclusively in the 12 to 30 rep range and largely does not do any axial loading, I would actually bet if we could take alternate universe version of you who just sprinkled in some, some fives every two to three months and did some axial loading in, in addition to that, um, and was, you know, failing in the four to six rep range or getting close to it, like one RIR, that person might be able to get a little bit bigger because I think they would be able to stimulate more bone growth. Yeah. Because the biggest thing that actually is stimulating bone is the muscle pulling on it. And, you know, even if you train to failure, you are reaching a high degree of mechanical tension in the muscle, but the highest forces you're ever getting is, you know, whatever the highest force you produce during that 20 arm set, you know? So on that point, Eric, just very quickly, is there anything, do you think to using kind of like a rebound, like squatting and actually like traditionally it's talked about as a bad thing, using the stretch reflex and kind of dumping it. But I guess that's similar in some ways to using this heavy loading, like you are purposely dumping onto the joints. So you're using some, uh, some, some velocity, some, some passive, uh, momentum. Yeah. I think, um, we're still uncovering what are the actual mechanosensors that stimulate growth and to what degree. And, uh, there is, the data would indicate that various eccentric speeds, uh, can all lead to growth. So I, I think, I don't know if there's something extra to it, but I think they're all on the table. Um, and I think, um, I, I don't know, I, I'm not familiar enough with things like plyometrics and high velocity training and ballistic to work to, to kind of have an idea of modeling what types of relative degrees of forces are going through the whole muscle tendon unit, which would then of course get transferred to the bone relative to just lifting heavy. Um, but that may be another way to get there. Just, yeah, maybe the bikini chicks have it right. We need to be doing plyometrics on top of our 15 to 20 rep training. And that is how you get as big as a bikini chick. So I'll challenge Meadow on that will fuck you up if you try to do for an extended period of time. Drop jumps, drop jumps would probably make us sore. That would be both novel and yeah. And overtrain you in short order. So to answer your question, Steve, not sure, but anything that'll get you some high forces through bone over time, I think might be, and I don't have data to show it, useful for bodybuilders. Mike, are you finished with your, uh, yep, I was done. Okay. Uh, cause I can actually steel man that argument a little bit with some data. We know there is data that frame size dictates maximum muscular potential and conceivably bigger tendons, higher bone density constitute some measure of increased frame size. So that could, you know, increase your long-term growth potential. Uh, there are data that you have to go heavy beyond like above 70% of one RM or so to make tendons appreciably grow. Whereas muscle has a much lower threshold as long as you go to failure. So there's, you know, some data to indicate that the need going heavier is good for, for bone density and tendon growth and the like, and maybe long-term that could constrain growth. And there is one shady Brazilian study in which a strength phase before hypertrophy phase did lead to more growth, but that could not be replicated in a subsequent study. And I don't think in these time periods, that would really be the thing that we're looking at, but you know, you could, uh, you could make some case. There's also one study by Mungin et al. That's found that at night advanced trainees training at 90% of 1RM made more gains, more muscle growth, not just strength than at 70 or something. Uh, that's clearly an outlying study because the vast majority of these studies don't find significant differences in growth, but you know, um, we could, we could cherry pick some data to support, uh, to support that narrative. Eric, what are you currently doing out of interest to pursue that idea? Um, I do train heavy sometimes. I, I, I think you can practically make this work by thinking about which exercises are not well suited to high reps. And, um, so I typically do lower body compound work in the four to eight or five to 10 range. And I'm probably starting around a two to three RIR. And so there's axial loading. It's a compound multi-joint movement. The absolute forces are pretty high. And, you know, a lot of the times, you know, I think I, I would be surprised is as much as I believe this, I'd be really surprised if you needed to actually be doing two to three RRM like, like doubles and triples as heavy as you possibly can versus, you know, and on a low bar squat, you know, just because I said fives earlier, versus I'm doing six to eight on, on a hack squat, even, you know, cause it's still somewhat axial loaded, even if it's a little bit offset and you're still lifting, like you're producing high forces, which I think is the main thing that matters less so than the axial loading. So I think if you are occasionally training in the four to eight rep range, you're probably good. Nice. Yeah. I think probably there's a lot of the listeners are doing that with their big compound lifts as advised by all of you, I think saying like you should probably lift in that rep range now and then with particularly the big compound lifts. That's nice. Menno, have you got anything that comes to mind when you think of something that's miscommunicated or misapplied for hypertrophy training in particular? Training to failure definitely comes to mind for me because I wholeheartedly agree with Mike's points that a lot of people just don't want to believe the literature that training to failure isn't that important. And they think that training to failure and intensity are just much more important than volume. And the research very clearly shows that it's not. Volume is absolutely king and training to failure matters because it influences volume. So I think in the best data we see that training closer to failure or else equal does stimulate more growth than training further away from failure. And that difference is entirely explained by the increased repetition volume that you're doing. So it's not the fact necessarily that you're training closer to failure, it's just that you're doing extra repetitions, which you could also get by resting longer, increasing your training frequency, probably splitting up the volume into different sessions so that you could do those extra reps on a different day or pretty much any other way. And in research indeed we see that if you just add a set and you get up in the same total number of reps as with fewer sets but closer to failure, then you also get the same growth in most studies. And then on the other hand, we see the people that accept these findings that training to failure is not all that important. And you know, if you leave a few reps in reserve, you can still make good gains as long as you do enough sets. But they often take it to the other extreme and they're like, those are the same people that also look at the volume research and they're like, it's all a D-mower or whatever, or you don't need to do that high volume. So they train not so hard and also with not that much volume. So I think people kind of take the wrong lesson from it often where the people either go full in hit or they just don't train as hard and they reduce their total training efforts, not just their reps in reserve, but their total effort for the whole session. And like really big picture, Mike already alluded to it earlier, the real drivers of growth, like really big picture is how many sets per week per muscle group are you doing at what level of effort. And by and large, if we just do a really rough cross-sectional analysis of all lifters and we just see who gets jacked and who doesn't, then you see that the people that just train harder, regardless of how they do it exactly, if it's periodized, not periodized, high reps, low reps, some people just train harder than others and they get better results. Because there was a meta-analysis from one or three years ago that looked at how hard the average gym-goer trains. And they found that most gym-goers leave like six to seven reps in reserve in their average set. And if that is you, that completely negates any level of detail or analysis about your training program because you're just not training very hard, right? So if for a lot of individuals that look the same year after year, really effort is a big part of it. And probably no one listening to this podcast really falls into that category because most people listening to this are the people that actually train hard and the details do start to matter. But there is a whole lot of people that you do deal with as a coach in particular, where effort is really the main thing. And then what the kind of the third level of training to failure that you have to understand is those people do not have to be told that training to failure has a poor stimulus to fatigue ratio and yada yada. Those people just have to be told, train to failure. Take every set to absolute failure. Because they won't do so anyway. They will never reach true momentary muscle failure. It will come, their level of volitional failure will be just a little bit closer. And that's better because it puts them at a higher level of overall effort. And in general, as long as they provide more effort, then they're going to get better gains. That's like the really big picture of it. Yeah, I definitely agree with that. I think you can definitely see people misapplying it in both directions. And it just makes me think of why bodybuilders who don't know any of this have been successful because they're just like, yeah, I mean, clearly I need to train myself hard. And when I'm recovered, I train myself really hard again. And obviously for a lot of people that won't work particularly effectively for very long, but for the genetically elite, it will work really well for a long time and better than kind of paralysis by analysis as you described them. So I think that's pretty well said. You even see that with CrossFitters, right? We all get the question tons of times, like, how are these CrossFitters so jacked? It's like, well, genetics, drugs, and they train really hard and they're also pretty consistent with their diet. So, you know, they get the really big picture stuff, right? And then all these details, they just don't matter as much as these really big critters. Out of interest, Mike, I'm going to ask first, how often do you train to momentary muscular failure? And I go around to everyone, obviously. Yeah. In my leg training, almost never, because that injury probability there of something going wrong, like the way a belt squad is designed is if I fail, there's no one coming to help me. I have no idea how to get out of the machine. Bad news. On pressing, like, uh, especially skull crushers, Smith machine inclines, which I've been doing a lot of recently, a ton. I mean, um, sometimes I'll even do it in week one really, because I do my rep match. And like my, like my lockout, even last week was week one for me, my lockout on my second set of bench was like, uh, rack one of those, um, for pulling like on pull-ups and stuff. I hit momentary muscular failure all the time. Um, for like biceps and stuff. Yeah. I mean, towards the end of a motorcycle for sure. But, uh, for things like high bar squats, things like stiff leg of deadlifts, um, rarely because I just think there's a safety concern there and for very high rep movements, like barbell lunges and stuff. Like again, the stimulus to fatigue ratio starts to be a question. Like men have said earlier, my question, mine and mine and Jared's question to the entire bodybuilding community has been, if you take every set to failure and we show you that you could have just taken every set to two IR and grown the same by just doing one extra set of five at the end of all of those four sets, do you, do you really think you're going to make it through the same length mesocycle training to failure versus two IR? And the answer is, no, you're not. And so for consistency, which is the real unlock in growth, training volume applied consistently, that's how you grow. So, uh, to me, it's like, yeah, I mean, I train, you know, close to failure, even maybe more than I should on technical grounds, just because I got one another fucking rep. God damn it. I don't know. Make, put the cherry on top, make sure I had a good set. Is that a good idea? Yeah. To test every now and again, especially last week. Yeah. It's great. Is it like super important for someone of my training, uh, age that knows when they're close to failure and when they're not, not a ton, I would like to believe it is, but in reality, there's just not, not a ton there. So yeah. Um, yeah, I tried trying to, uh, close to failure pretty consistently, but, uh, um, you know, most of my sets are not to failure. And also, um, so this video will be out in a little while, maybe before, maybe after, but I got a chance to train Jason Kelsey, who is like a pro, uh, former pro offensive lineman. Um, and he's incredibly fast, which as you would expect a fucking all pro offensive lineman to be. And it looks like he's not trying, not trying, not trying into the bar just falls. And you're like, what the fuck? Like, so when you're big and strong failure sneaks up on you. And the idea that you can like grind 18 of the last 32 reps, and that's true failure is true for people that are some combination of unbelievably tough or unbelievably weak. And which one you are, depends on who you are listening to this. But I think that patting yourself on the back for doing lots of grinder reps can be a baller thing. Cause you're really trying, or it can be a thing where it's just like, don't just, don't just believe that everyone who looks like they're training for five RAR really is five RAR. Lots of regular people train five or seven RAR. Lots of people, it looks like they have reps in the tank. They don't have any reps in the tank and they would just crash and burn if they'd trained any, any closer to failure. So that's my perspective on that. Nice. How about you, Eric? How often are you taking it to the house? A lot. So a little bit of training structure. I do full body push, full body pull, alternating six days in a row. And then I have a day where I do a little bit extra, uh, dealt, uh, lat, forearm and calf work. Um, so on those six days, uh, the way an upper body pull or an upper body push looks is I'm starting on a push day with a, uh, Smith machine squat or a leg press. And on one day I'm just doing more leg extensions. And then on both of the other days, I either go to sissy squat or, or leg extension after the leg press or Smith machine squat. And then I do one to two pressing exercise or a press and a fly exercise for the upper body. And then a tricep and a lateral raise. Um, so on all of those movements, except for Smith machine squats and leg press, I am going to momentary failure on probably the, uh, everything except the initial set and the initial set on the isolation movements. I'm going to momentary failure. Uh, and some of them I, I will do drop sets. So it's every single set to failure. Um, and then on the pull days, I start with either an RDL, a weighted back extension, uh, or a good morning. Um, or just a straight up deadlift and, uh, the deadlifts and RDLs. I am not going to failure typically. Sometimes when I travel and I do RDLs with lightweights or dumbbells, I will do failure on those any length and partials because I just don't feel it's as dangerous, but similar to Mike, I'm, I'm not going to fail on a good morning. So, uh, or that's a good evening, good night and good day to you, sir. So, um, yeah, I don't fail on good mornings or RDLs typically, unless I'm doing very high reps, but I do fail on the leg curls that follow in the same way the leg extensions follow. I fail on all sets of calf raises. I fail on all sets of isolation arm work. I fail on all sets of lateral raises. Um, and I fail on all sets of rows, even going into length and partials to where the range of motion decays into almost nothing. Same with lat pull down, vertical rows, uh, pullovers, flies. Yep. What I'm getting from this Eric is that you are a failure. I just have to make a dad joke. I would say it was too opportune. I'd say 70% of all sets are a failure, but you can see if you look at my program, there are specific exercises where it does not occur in specific exercises where it does occur. So heavy, moderate to low rep compound, lower body exercises, typically not. How about you, Meno? What's it looking like? I go very close almost all the time, but true failure, I reserve for lower volume programs and certain exercises. It's very exercise specific for me. So if it's an exercise that has the sticking point in a shortened position, which is most type of pulling exercises and things like lateral raises, I will fail basically every set. I don't believe that the fatigue of a lateral raise taken to failure is much higher than, you know, if you take one less rep, uh, if you take off one rep, um, that's actually not super evidence-based, but it is at a shorter muscle length and the, the force production differential is clearly a lot smaller because after you fail set of rows, the, you know, you could still do like 20 reps often, but they're just going to be a little bit shorter every repetition. So there's not really that hard stop where it's like a bench press or a squat, you fail and it's just, you, you really have to grind through the sticking point and it's a very miserable experience plus the safety issue. So I think the stimulus to fatigue plus safety, uh, issue is a lot bigger for those. And yeah, any type of pulling exercise, I generally go to failure. Pull-ups have a pretty good resistance curve, so maybe not as much, but pull-downs where you fail at the bottom, I do take those to failure. Lateral raise always, and then exercise like biceps curls and the like is kind of in the middle. I will make sure that I don't leave any reps in reserve. And if that means that occasionally I will actually hit momentary muscle failure, like literally fail the rep, then, you know, so be it. Um, and currently I'm not on a super high program volume, so I'm like 15 sets per week per muscle group. So I, I feel quite some sets, but, uh, it's very, very exercise specific for me. Nice. Steve, did we miss Eric on the, oh, sorry. Uh, do we miss Eric on the, what you think people are doing wrong thing? I think we did. I'm going to circle back to that. Oh, sorry. I got Jesus. It's all right. I'm a terrible host. I know. Uh, it's very interesting to hear about everyone's approach to failure. And I think if anything, it's furthers Menno's point about kind of testing yourself now and then, and not being afraid of it and not over indexing on the fact you don't have to go there. Uh, just the fact you don't have to go. Yeah. Saying you don't have to go there is almost wrong because you kind of need to go there to know to not go there sometimes, uh, especially on some lifts. So, uh, yes, we can come back, uh, to you, Eric, in terms of what you think is the most, uh, either misunderstood, misapplied or miscommunicated aspects of hypertrophy training. Well, it's actually a good dovetail. And I want to kind of help out the points that Mike and Menno were making, uh, cause this is hot right now. So I think a lot of people struggle with it, but where most people struggle is when there's a nonlinear relationship and there are second and third order effects. That's where they conceptually have a difficult time understanding concepts. So when it comes to the interaction between proximity to failure and volume, um, that is where people struggle. So proximate to failure, as we best understand it, does have a relatively linear relationship with hypertrophy, um, for the most part in aggregate. Um, and like when you're looking at minute differences between certain RIRs, it may look like there's no difference in a, you know, comparison between a study. But when we take a step back and look at say Robinson's meta regression is a general, like closer you get to failure, better thing, but the effect is, is relatively modest. And especially between minute RIR points like failure versus zero versus one or two even. Um, but the volume relationship is this pretty strong diminishing returns. So what that means is you can have someone experience that, you know, they were taught to do, you know, four to eight sets per muscle group. And that's, that's the, a normal program. And someone else might've come up with, you know, Arnold's Encyclopedia of bodybuilding and 15 to 20 is, is quote unquote normal for them. And I would argue that both, if you're habituated to it and you don't have any kind of ideological belief, then they can, they can feel like normal programs depending upon what exercises you choose, you're training sufficiently hard. If you go from the one where you're doing 15 to 20 sets and you try to go up to, and you add 10 to that, and now you're doing 25 to 30 sets, you're going to get much less out of that volume than if you went to 14 to 18 sets, you're going to see some noticeable changes in that first scenario based upon a typical, uh, you know, like growth you would get out of that based upon model relationships. Additionally, you're much more likely to struggle to go to failure when you're in that first scenario, when you're going up to 25 to 30 sets, you're going to experience what I would describe as pacing. And it's something that you see in, in, in all exercise research, when you are having to do more and more and more, and there's even some indirect data when people are doing multiple sets. There was a recent meta-analysis and looked at the, the number of reps you get when you go to failure, when you do multiple sets, it changes, which means people would think they're going to failure, but they're actually holding back a little bit when they have like five, six sets to do. So you're thinking about that for one is that is meanings that that means that in the real world, when you're exploring these higher volume ranges that we, we, we know are better based upon the data. If you're going up, but getting a small benefit out of that, but, and you're also getting further from failure. It's very plausible that the person trying to go from 15 to 25 sets gets nothing out of it because they're actually dropping from an average RIR of one to three. And that is enough to offset those diminishing returns. While someone who is going from four sets to 14 is making the same absolute increase in volume. But if they're able to maintain the same RIR, they're getting more out of it. And I think people really struggle with that. And I think that happens a lot in the real world. And you make these little concessions when you try to do a high volume program. So one of the reasons that I am very focused on training close to failure now is because I've been exploring higher volumes and I know I do not want to be the guy who went from 15 to 20 sets to 25 to 30 sets and then saw my RIR increase and did, and, and did, and it was basically pointless. So I've been kind of focusing on one, then auditing the other, focusing on one, then auditing the other is my general approach. And one of the critical things I, from a coaching perspective is when I do make a volume increase, I want to make sure that the person understands that we are trying to increase the dose, not modify one component of the dose and decrease another. We're not doing that. We're trying to lift both levers. And I think that is something people struggle with. So it also means that there are better decisions to be made depending upon where your starting point is. If you're playing in a relatively low volume program, you should be close to failure anyway, just to get the most out of it. And when you increase volume, you want to do it to the point where you're not starting to see a big drop in proximity to failure. Likewise, if you are already, already at a high volume, if someone is like, I'm doing 20 sets, I, I saw the meta regression. Hey, let's pairwise comparison. It looks good. It looks good up to 30. Should I go to 30? The first thing I'd say is actually, can you send me videos of all your last sets? Because I think we'll get more out of, since we're already in a relatively poor diminishing returns relationship, seeing where can we push a little bit harder. So you give me someone who's already training high volume, I might say, you know, you training closer to failure is better. You give me somebody who's already training low volume and close to failure. I, I would say, well, and this is the one's obvious. We should probably do more volume because you can't train even past failure. I mean, you could actually, you could do some forced reps or eccentrics or whatever, but, um, and that is even what someone in that camp would generally say is the way to go forward there because volume is not on the table. But I think that is a tough thing for people to understand is that those two things, the relationship changes, interacts, and will be different. What you might decide to do in those two different scenarios. Very well said. Yeah. The, I think I've termed it the volume trap where basically, you just have so much to do, then you do pace. I think about the analogy of, I don't know if you had 10 tasks to do in a day, but normally you only have five and you can do five to a high standard. You're going to rush those 10. You just, you're not going to be able to do them as well. Now I've certainly been there where I've inappropriately added too much volume too soon. And what I come back to with your, your suggesting there, Eric is quality has to be first and foremost, and that encompasses like not modifying your technique to make it easier or not leaving more in the tank. You've got to keep that intact before you add, like you said, so you can actually efficaciously increase the dose. So very well said. The experience of doing a high volume program properly when you're the athlete and you're in there in the moment is that you are in the moment and you have to take each set by set and be present and just divorce yourself from thinking about what you have to do and do what you're currently doing. And I find not being distracted, having music, and almost having a semi meditative state. It's not definitely not meditative is because you are training close to failure, but so that the analogy doesn't hold perfectly. But I guess what I'm saying is being present and focusing on the task at hand and not going off and looking up at Everest every five minutes because you have another 10 sets to do, you know, or whatever. And I actually think there are some indirect benefits of that just coming in and going, I've got 90 minutes of work and I'm doing super sets and I'm doing drop sets and I'm doing rest pause and I am doing nine exercises. That is really scary if you think about it that way, but it can also be very beneficial for you from a mental and emotional perspective of just going set one, here I am and there's nothing else. Love it. Mike, you had a point to make. No, man, that last part hits, man. That's huge. You have to, it also helps to know that many of the studies that show the superiority of training very close to failure are based on all the other studies we have underdosed in volume. And, and so, you know, you have studies where, you know, someone's doing, let's say 10 weekly sets per muscle and you show that, you know, studies were roughly 10 weekly sets per muscle. We're done training close to failure caused more growth than further from failure. Well, we know two things. One, you're going to need all the stimulus you can get because you're like, I don't know, factor of three away from coming close to what you would be limiting volume, 30 sets. And so every small bit of stimulus is going to make a big change. We also know that you're nowhere near your fatigue thresholds for sustainability. So you're good to go on two grounds. Whereas if you have a program where you're really trying to get into the kinds of volumes that literature has shown have been superior, so that's, you know, 25, 30, 35 sets weekly for targeted muscle. Surviving that by going to failure for every single set may not be an option for you psychologically getting through a program five weeks of that accumulation with 30 sets and every single one of them is to failure might for many people just be untenable. And if you crank down to two RIR, you still get almost all the benefits, but the volume so high it makes up for it. And then you're having a net higher amount of growth. So that trade-off that Eric is talking about when people crank the RIR down, or sorry, crank the RIR up, the RIR is a confusing statement, failure proximity, they crank the failure proximity down in order to justify more volume. There are many situations in which that can lead to roughly the same growth, but there are also situations in which the nuance has to consider, like, am I going to survive this and how do I go about surviving it? And is one more rep close to failure? What is the stimulus to fatigue ratio trade off of that one rep? And oftentimes it's like, it's a lot more fatigue for not a whole lot more. So it is more stimulus, which is why the smaller volume studies will pick it up, but it's a lot more fatigue. And in a smaller training environment, you can survive and you can benefit and you should, which is why when you're doing low volume, fuck yeah, go real close to failure. But when you're doing higher volumes, I'm not saying go five RIR, six RIR, that would be exactly the kind of trade-off Eric is talking about where it's like, okay, now you're getting through quote unquote the work, but the quality of the work has degraded substantially. But maybe consider starting your mesocycle at two or three reps in reserve and not starting everything at failure. There's another thing too, where, you know, I've trained with Eric a bunch, I've trained with Meadow a bunch. Um, the way they're getting close to failure is obviously the right way of doing it, which is like a meticulous attention to detail and technique focused, really trying hard. And then being like, I'm failing. It's not like this, like drastic, emotional, like cathartic event that they're going through. And a lot of people who are really big fans of failure training think that like eight of your buddies yelling at you on the hack squad. And one of them helping you push up on the concentric is how you go to failure and know that is not a sustainable way of training for most people. And the stimulus to fatigue ratio for that really, really actually does suck. And those guys will be like, yeah, I tried high volumes. Didn't work for me. I'll be like, no shit, motherfucker. You're having a religious experience in the gym every day. Most people can't survive that. I mean, we have really good data to show that the amount of fatigue people get from running marathons, for example, is like a qualitative leap beyond in competitive marathon than in training marathon. And the times, they're not that much different. Like they're different, but like, yeah, you ran this, like, I don't know, like 10 seconds faster each mile. And somehow you got like the flu after this, whereas you've done 10 training runs reading up to marathon and none of them gave you the flu. How? They're perceptively different. That pushing very hard is an incredibly important part of the training process. Pushing psychotically hard, religious experience hard is fun as shit. And I think once every few months, you should be able to do that. Maybe even at the end of her mouth cycle, but every day in the gym, putting in heavy metal and remembering about how your dad touched you all wrong when you were four, that is, oh, that's funny to you, Eric. That kind of thing's funny. You laugh at something like that, Eric. It's a tragedy. Um, and so that kind of training is what very much is valorized, but it's also just not so sustainable. And what I'll say is, you know, if you, if your quad workout is work up to a top set of hack squads, go psychotic, do one down set and leave the alternative of just five sets of real hard one to two RAR training, one of those, those workouts might give you the same fatigue, but one of them will grow you twice as much. And it's the second workout where you're going a little bit shy of failure or two failure, but not in a psychotic way. And this is the thing is like, I've done psychotic failure training. I did it for like the first six or seven years of my training career. What I got from it was like good growth and a lot of really good mental growth. But after I switched to like, just at first one RIR, I realized that I could just sustain way more weeks of sequential training, get stronger and get way bigger with less injury risk and less fatigue because I wasn't doing psychotic shit anymore. And I know that's not popular to hear, but that, that is a, I think a perspective that maybe it will help some people because you know, what kind of sets do you post an Instagram? You post the psychotic sets on Instagram. Of course, all your favorite bodybuilders just assume they train psychotic. And then these guys come to train with Jared and I, no offense, these guys. And, uh, you know, we're like, Oh yeah, like you train really hard. And like, fuck yeah. We're like, we're going to train like that for like five sets. And after two sets, they're like, I I'm throwing up fucking physically. I can't get off the ground. And I'm like, well, we have three more sets to go, man. Like the literature says, you know, at least, at least five sets of leg press. So they're like, this is crazy. And I'm like, Oh, I thought you trained hard. And they're like, I do, but I don't do this much. And it's like, you're training too hard. You need to train a little less hard and put in the fucking quality work. Like guys don't sprint the whole marathon is what I'm trying to say. I don't know. Maybe, maybe some of that is nuanced and wrong, but what do you guys think? You got time, Menno? I know we're, uh, getting close. Yeah. Well, I have an experience that kind of touches on a lot of the things we discussed. So I think it might be good to, uh, to, to, uh, mention at some point after our contest prep, I did an eight month bulk phase doing full body training daily. And for two months each, I did four, six, eight, or 10, um, sets per muscle group. So per day, uh, which is like an extreme volume block. And my experience was that four sets is very doable. It's just a hardcore program for me. 10 sets per day was madness, but I didn't overtrain. Uh, I just, I generally think that I'm, you know, I have pretty high willpower. I'm very motivated, especially this book. I was extremely motivated. I have high traits conscientiousness. So pushing to failure and the like is not that difficult for me, but at 10 sets per day, I just couldn't, I just had a mental block. I felt it. I tried. It just wouldn't work. Like I just knew this is set one out of 10 for just one muscle group. It just couldn't, I just couldn't train hard. And all I could do basically was, and I think it was the self-preservation mechanism too, because my entire day was basically, I had to switch out exercise all the time. Um, because I would, otherwise I would get injured. Everything just started hurting. So 10 sets per day was just, was madness. Uh, and the pacing was really, really real. And then eight sets was kind of the same, just a little bit less. And six sets per day is, is about my threshold, I think, which happens to be like the 42 sets. So it's kind of coincides with the literature where I can actually still train hard. And it's still a real drag on my like joints. And I have to switch out exercise quite a bit and it's really brutal, but it is actually somewhat sustainable or at least maybe for certain periods of time. But, uh, yeah, above that, it's sustainable for certain periods of time. You can plan it, you can plan it in, in over the year, a few times, I think. Um, but yeah, that was, um, I think that kind of ties up many of these concepts like training to failure, pacing, volume, and that interaction between those things. Menno, I had a question for you in that regard, and everyone can kind of answer this as well. Some people will get into a training program and they will take, I don't know, a lot of their exercises to failure and they're thinking they're going to deload the next week. Do you think there's a chance that you can consistently just adapt to that level of training? Like you just get, for example, like Eric, and I'm sure you have some good insights on this, where you're training everything to failure consistently. Do you find you can repeat that and it isn't as, it doesn't, the SFR, the stimulus to fatigue ratio kind of changes once you kind of get used to, like you almost adapt to the level of intensity that you're going at. There is a research by Rastad, Troels Rastad in Norway, that's looked at the effects of doing six sets per day of quad training. And they found that the average time it took them to recover from the workout did decrease. And there's some other research as well, and if you get more advanced, along with things like repeated bout effect, especially from an habitual stimulus, that you can recover faster from that given stimulus as you get used to it. So I think there's a physiological mechanism for that as well. Mentally, there is, there's probably a factor, depends a lot on the individual, I guess, where, how relevant that was. And you need a, you need a different mindset for sure. You need a kind of a dual mindset because as Eric said, you, with such high volume training programs on the one hand, you have to be really strict with yourself to even be able to still train hard every set. But on the other hand, you also need to be able to, to slow it down when necessary. Because on high volume training program, auto regulation and the like become really important. So I think there's, there's both a mental and a physiological component that, that would make sense there. Nice. Have you seen that yourself, Eric, that you've been able to just kind of consistently, and it's, and maybe initially it was quite a big toll on you, but after a while you kind of got used to it. Yeah. And I think it's important to state that you don't just jump in both feet. Like I made probably three or four volume progressions to get from 15 to where I was and I'm not there right. I'm prepping right now. So my sets are closer to 16 to low twenties per muscle group at the moment. And they're not over 20 for my lower body. So they're like 16 to 20 and they're like 20 to 25 for some of my upper body muscle groups. But when I was closer to 25 to 35 at the peak offseason, I got there incrementally from clipping closer to 15. Uh, and I was just kind of auditing at each step. Like I make a volume increase in my pacing, I make a volume increase in my pacing. Um, and similar to minnow, but you know, not, not that high. Um, I did find like I needed the audit to make sure. Um, and I, you know, I have a workout partner in a couple of days, which really helps as well. And I videotape my sets and I know that I'll get called out. So, um, I like their, their system is in place to keep myself honest. So yeah, I think it is important, but the thing I did notice is, um, yeah, I adapted better than I expected to, you know, and, and it really makes sense when you think about it. We brought up CrossFit kind of offhand. Like I think sometimes people get too bubbled into bodybuilding. Um, and like, just look at what athletes are doing in other sports or the extremes of what humans can do. Like the race across the USA, we were talking about marathons. They run a marathon every day for three months, Steve, they run across the entire U S and they live. It's like it's bodybuilding. We're fine. You know, like, and I'm not saying that there aren't some people who, if they train to failure doing 10 sets are going to really be at their, their, their max tolerance. There are, I've seen them, they exist then and they're not that rare. Um, but I think, um, many times when people do play with higher volumes or they do train, play with failure and they have these kind of narratives or prior beliefs about them, they jump in far too quickly. They ramp things up way too fast. Uh, they kind of do all or nothing. They go from not really training to training to failure, or they go from not doing very much volume to a lot of volume. They blow themselves out. And I think if you just incrementally do it, and if you are intelligent about it and you really think about exercise selection, which is such an important interacting factor, um, and you give yourself time to adapt in addition to kind of doing intro weeks and building up to it, it, it fundamentally makes it from something that is impossible to possible or at least tolerable. And that is, uh, where most people get it wrong. Yeah. Yeah. It's like Mike said there, where you could start on mesocycle with a few more in the tank. I kind of, I know Eric use intro week. So I think men, oh, you do something similar there. It's so you can actually have the repeated bout effect take place and help you along the course of a mesocycle. Uh, guys, I've taken an hour of your time here and I really appreciate it. I absolutely love talking to you all and having you on at the same time. It's an absolute pleasure. Uh, you guys bounce off one another really nicely and I know the audience love it too. So thank you so much for spending your time with me for episode 500. I highly appreciate it. I can't quite believe we've got to that number, but we have, and, uh, thank you guys for listening show, uh, Eric Menno and Mike, all the love, uh, guys take care and we'll talk to you soon. Thank you. See you guys.