 Guys, today we're going to be talking about what actually drives muscle growth. In today's day and age, there's a ton of information online. Some of it really overcomplicates this process, others really makes it much more clear, but some of it kind of puts it together. And I do think we have an abundance of information so we can get a bit paralyzed from over-analysis of that. And I want this video to be something that you can visit every time you're feeling confused, concerned, that maybe you're not doing the right thing for your muscle growth goals. And so we're going to be talking about that today. So it's going to be like covering the basics, kind of almost first principle thinking for bodybuilders within their training. If you do this, you do these things, you are by default being productive within your workouts. So I really come to two fundamental things, and that is meeting thresholds for your volume and intensity. And when I'm talking about intensity, I don't mean load on the bar. Load on the bar is becoming more and more clear that it doesn't matter a ton. And we've seen this throughout history of bodybuilders getting jacked on high reps, low reps, so on and so forth. A mix of the two may even be ideal. But what matters more than load on the bar is how hard are you working? So we're talking about proximity to failure. You need to take your muscles very close to failure or to failure, potentially beyond failure. But you have to challenge your body. And therefore, this is kind of that threshold. You need to meet a stress threshold for your body to have to respond, adapt and grow. So you've got to train hard. Sounds really, really basic. But if you meet that fundamental principle of I trained this muscle hard close to failure, tempo, even like technique, rep range, load on the bar, those sort of variables become way less important. So did that muscle get trained close to failure? If it did, then so long as we meet the other threshold, which is a volume threshold, if we did enough of those hard, challenging sets, we could call them. I think hard sets are a great way to think about it. Then we can be damn sure we've created a sufficient stress response for our body have to grow and adapt. So when you look at anything within your program, really, if you aren't achieving reps close to failure, sets close to failure and a good amount of work. Now, how can we tangibly think about, because I think it's very clear that we can think about, hey, probably three or less reps in reserve, we're meeting this threshold for growth. And I would side with pushing a bit harder versus being further away on average. I think that's a great place to be. Then, but when it comes to set volume, there's a lot of things that go into volume. Like what exercise are we talking about? Who's performing it? Because even if we think about, okay, for a quads, if you have a really, really tool lifter and they're squatting, was the quad the limiting factor or was it their lower back or other musculature supporting musculature, you know, or depends how you squat. Was it your glutes or your quads? It becomes a bit messy. We doing squats or leg extensions. Are they a set per set for your quads? Because then there is recommendations that I think are, to some extent, helpful within the evidence base set space of like a 10 to 20 kind of range to work in for most people, for most muscle groups per week. That is. But I think siding with a little bit less is a smart move. Like siding with a bit closer to failure, generally is a smart move. Siding with a little bit less is a smart move because you can always add. More volume, but taking away, you might by doing so much lead to your quality being sacrificed, whether that be your form or how hard you're pushing and your form and how hard you're pushing is so fundamentally the quality of stimulus that you're trying to provide to give your muscles in impetus to grow. So it's so important that you hold on to that with that fundamental principle being quality first, always, then you can always add on top of that. And also knowing that it's diminishing returns past meeting that threshold, right? You kind of meet the growth threshold and then it's like, hey, you add more, but you don't just get exponentially more or even linearly more, you get less and less. So that investment might not even be worth it. But if you don't have the quality there first, you can add all you want, but you may not even grow if you don't meet the threshold for taking a muscle close to failure. So then what is just something inherently you can use within your own physiology to know if you've trained hard enough is do I feel like I could handle more of my feeling quite beat up? Like by the end of that workout where I've trained that muscle group, does it feel pretty tired and fatigued? And I feel like I've like given it a good go. The following day, am I feeling like I trained that muscle? It might be a little bit of nagging soreness. It might just feel like it's a bit tired or fatigued. So I feel like I've given it a good shot. And then am I in a round that 10 sets, like kind of lower threshold? It could be for some lower body muscles, like many of you might know your hamstrings just can't tolerate as much volume. It's very common for people that might be closer to six. So I think as long as you're kind of know you're in around that ballpark, you know, you're kind of meeting these minimum thresholds. And then over time, am I progressing? And if you are progressing, that's the ultimate arbitrary. You growing really in the kind of hypertrophy rep range that is like not your one rep max. But am I adding reps or load to this kind of five to 30 repetition spectrum? If you're able to do that, you know, you're giving your body sufficient stresses to cause it to respond, adapt. And the reason you can lift more is because you've grown muscle tissue to be able to do that. For someone more advanced, it's going to take much more time versus someone more novice. I don't want to get too much into the weeds with this. I already felt like I did a little bit there with some of that discussion. I just wanted that to be like real world, practical. What matters for building muscle when you're going to the gym and you're training where it be like a chest session, a pull session, legs, full body. You need to take the muscles close to failure. So you need to pick exercises that allow you to do that. And you need to make sure you get into repetitions that really challenge you. So you're trying to do a forceful concentric, but it slows down involuntary. You may even take it to the point where you're like, Hey, I couldn't do anymore. You literally hit a concentric repetition and you couldn't do it. That could happen to you need to meet that threshold. You need to train sufficiently hard. And then you need to make sure that you're doing enough. So you need to feel challenged by the end of that workout. That muscle feels like it had a good go and that you have some potential buyer feedback that you've done sufficient work following days afterwards. And then you basically want to train it again once it's feeling fresh and ready to go again. It doesn't have to feel 100% but feel good enough. And so long you're in that ballpark, then you know, Hey, I'm meeting these thresholds for growth. If I want to lean into a bit more from feeling like, Hey, I feel pretty be up. I could handle a bit more, maybe put a bit more in there, but quality first always. So thresholds training hard enough with enough and then quality has to always be there. And if you keep meeting these by default, you're progressively overloading because it won't be hard if you don't increase the load at some point or the repetitions at some point, because it will start moving out of this threshold because your body will adapt. And I think that's really where I want this video to end. I don't again, I want these videos to be kind of a bit shorter, bit snappier, give you the fundamental knowledge that you need to take home to feel like confident in what you're doing. Because I know for so many years I was like, am I doing the right thing? And I think sometimes I missed the forest for the trees. And I got the, I didn't get the heart and the cart and the horse the right way round. And I didn't really advance my physique. So if I had these fundamental principles in place first, I really would have. And whether you're intermediate, novice, advanced, these things have to be in place. And it really helps just uncompliment, uncomplicate your training, these first principles. So guys, I'll leave this here. And yeah, look forward to a bit of a series on these, where I'll be talking about some future. Bodybuilding mistakes, natural bodybuilding mistakes that many make in their first years of lifting. That may be the next video. Look forward to it.