Hi, welcome to the Golf Psychology Podcast. I'm Dr. Patrick Con here with Brock McCormack, one of our mental coaches at Peak Performance Sports. We're continuing our series on pre-roundmental preparation, but however, we're switching up and we're going to talk about postround assessment or having a good postround routine to bring you confidence as well. You're watching the Golf Psychology Podcast. So, the first thing we want to talk about incorporating into your post round routine is to celebrate your successes. Is to review the things you did well out on the golf course that day because, as we know, it's it's very easy to quickly jump to the little things that you felt like you could have done better that day. So, why is it important to review the good shots and the good moments out on the golf course? Yeah, absolutely. I think as humans, we tend to want to only focus on the negative and the stuff that didn't go well during the round. Uh many golfers are self-critical after the round and they'll jump right into, oh, that missed three-footer that I made, I could have had a better score. or that that duffed chip shot or sand shot that I hit. Boy, I could have had, you know, uh a better score in that perspective as well. So, that's the typical uh post round routine I think for golfers is they go right to what did I leave out there? What are the missed opportunities? What I call the would have, should have, and could have. Yeah. I mean, every golfer talks about the shots they leave on the course. Oh, you know, I could have been two shots if I had made those two putts. Let's just let's leave that go because what about those couple putts or clutch up and downs that you made that saved you shots? We don't ever think about those. So, take time to acknowledge your accomplishments as well because that's going to help us build our confidence going into our next practice session and next round based on our strengths in our golf game. Another thing we can do is analyze what we did well in relation to the mental game. So, how did I stay composed under pressure? For example, I double bogeied on four and I came back and par number five. I did a good job at staying in control of my performance and didn't let that snowball into another bad hole after that. Yeah, I think we'll do a separate podcast on that alto together would be a good direction to go with that. Um, as far as your post round routine, I like the idea of asking yourself, how am I going to improve my confidence from round to round rather than how am I going to tear down my confidence from round to round. So that should be your guiding question. Um, and then as Brock said, the first question you want to ask yourself is, what did I do well in the round that I can pat myself on the back? What are two things that went well for me? Maybe it was that great drive that you hit down the middle of a tight fairway. Maybe it was you drained um you know a 30-footer for birdie on hole number three. So focus on two things and ask yourself specifically what are two things or two shots or two holes that I perform well on? For sure. So, another another good strategy we'll want to discuss related to a good post round assessment comes from Bob Rotella, the famous golf psychologist, came up with a couple questions that I wanted to mention here about breaking down your game post round. So, the first one is on which shots am I giving away the most strokes? Second would be which clubs are helping me the most out on the course and lastly which clubs are hurting me the most on the course. three very basic and productive questions that you can ask yourself to form efficient practice based on the strengths and the weaknesses of your golf game moving forward. Well, I'm glad you went there, Brock, because it doesn't help to ask yourself those questions unless you have some specific action plans for your practice, right? I tell golfers, look, if you had three three putts during the round, that's an indication that you need to go and work on your touch the next week, right? Um, if you're flubbing your shots out of the sand and you're losing shots out of the sand, that's a good indication that you need to work on your your sand play. So, um, stats are good from that perspective, I think, is to modify what you need to focus on in your next week or two of practice. Using that to your advantage instead of using it to bring down your confidence is, oh, I'm such a bad putter now because I had 38 putts. Well, one round doesn't define you. How can I use this to guide me and keep me focused on improving my putting instead of letting that create a level of self-doubt? Yeah, great point. There's a difference between saying I'm I'm a terrible putter. I had 36 putts with, you know, three or four three putts versus, okay, let's break this down. Why did I have 36 putts? Am I hitting my line? Is it my speed control? Or is it my green reading? and what specifically do I need to improve um in my next couple weeks of practice? Great tips as always, Brock. Thanks for joining us on the Golf Psychology Podcast. For more information about mental coaching from Brock or myself, visit peakports.com. And you can also jump over to sport psychology for more tips and strategies for your mental game. Thanks for joining us.