Hi, this is Dr. Patrick Cohn with Peak Performance Sports. Today I'm talking with Mike. Mike's a student of mine. I've been working with Mike for about two months with his chipping. Mike, talk to me a little bit about before you contacted me, what were some of the challenges that you're having with the chipping? MIKE: It was almost like kinda Jekyll and Hyde story. I could practice and chip fine, but when I got onto on the course where the chip mattered, it was like couldn't control my own body. It was like the practice swing would be fine. but when I go to pull the trigger it's like some demon would take over and I would yank up and do different things, I'd scull it or hit it short. That's been happening for about three years and kept getting worse and worse to the point where I was kind of very very frustrated because didn't know how to deal with it, you know, just no amount of practice or no amount of lessons that I was taking were having any impact. The situation was getting to where it wasn't so much fun to play anymore. COHN: So, you contacted me and we spent a couple half days here in Orlando, and then we've been doing some follow-up. Where are you today with it? What does it feel like today? What's the level of freedom you have with your chipping or your ability to reproduce that practice stroke you talked about? MIKE: I kinda think of myself right now as a little bit like an AA, a one day at a time. But I feel like I'm in a good remission right now. I can practice well like I was before but I now when I get out there and I'm focusing on just trying to make free swings and the fear is, you know, work through it and now the fears pretty much gonna gone. You know, I'm yet to be in a really challenging and very difficult situation and so that still a test yet to come. But in some rounds were I would have had a lot of trouble, I would not have been able to chip without yips. Now I can! And you know, that I'm kinda keeping track but you know I had around yesterday were my chips were 100 percent yip free. But I feel a lot more confidence and I feel like I control my body now rather than somebody else's controlling it. You know, that fear is manageable now. COHN: That's great that you've been able to make those changes. And I think that's the way you want to look at it too, mike, is it's not an all or none, stick to some other principles that you know you and I've worked on you have to stay on top of some of the drills and the things that we've been working on consistently. MIKE: Yeah, I agree. COHN: Thanks for your story today!