Hi, do you struggle with self-doubt before you go in the competition? I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn and in today's sessions with Doc I'm going to teach you how to deal with self-doubt so it doesn't eat away your confidence. The information you're going to learn today is a preview of my very popular program The Confident Athlete CD and workbook program. You're watching sessions with Doc. So one of the biggest thing that affects confidence is self doubt. Self-doubt is the opposite or the polar opposite of having confidence. In other words, if you're doubting your ability to perform that day can I perform well today? Did I have enough practice this week? Is the competition too strong for me? If you have any of those doubts in the form of question marks you're not feeling very confident. So one of the things that you have to do as an athlete is you have to make sure that you address those self- doubts and everybody has self-doubt you know not athletes or just I'm confident but it's it's the amount of self doubt that you have how much of your thoughts are focused on performing well and doing well in the competition and how much of your thoughts are really about questioning your skills, questioning your ability to play against the opponents, questioning your ability to play in certain conditions those are all forms or hidden forms of self-doubt that you have to be cognizant of and you have to be aware of because like I said if you let it fester it's going to eat away at your confidence like little pac-man that's what I called doubt it's a little pac-man that eats away at your confidence so what you have to do and it's very specific to you, it's very specific to your athletes if your a coach or your a parent on how you handle doubts, and how you deal with specific doubts. For example, everybody has their own specific doubts that are particular to them. One athlete might say well I'm too small for this competition or I'm not quick enough for this competition. They may be doubting based upon an ability that they feel like they don't have that stacks up. So one of the things you want to do and I'll use that one is an example, one of the things you want to do is have yourself list your top doubts specifically your pre-game or pre-competition doubts and maybe some doubts that you have during competition. Have I had enough practice or did I practice effectively those would be examples of doubts that you definitely want to address. How do you address them? Well like I said maybe take your top four or five doubts that you have and what I'd like you to do is list those doubts on the paper and what your job is to do is really role play in this situation. If a positive coach heard you saying those doubts if a positive coach you were talking out loud what would that positive coach say to you to help you turn around so really you're trying to do two things when you're addressing your doubts you're trying to rationalize with yourself and say well why is that wrong in addition you're trying to input a statement of confidence we call this in the mental coaching world we call this reframing your doubts and reframing your doubts really is just looking at them in a different way that gives you more confidence so the plan is turn that statement of doubt into a statement of confidence on paper that's step one and it would go like this oh I'm too small to play against these opponents they're too big for me then the rebuttal or the reframe in this case would be well I can make up for that in other areas I'm super quick and super fast and I can run around them or I can skate around them so I'm going to use my speed and my quickness as an advantage so it turns that doubt, that negative statement into a statement that's really helpful and confidence enhancing for your athlete so once you list the doubts make sure you have a rebuttal statement but secondly the next step is to review and rehearsal those rebuttal statements so you can use them easily in competition so in competition time you can remember it and go to it. If you like the tip today make sure you check out peaksports.com and search for the confident athlete this was just one of many tips that I provide in the confident athlete CD and workbook program, our number one seller at peak sports.com well I hope you've enjoyed this mental game tip and I've got a lot of other tips for you to improve your confidence, focus, and composure what you want to do is subscribe to our YouTube videos if you haven't done so yet and you'll be notified when new videos like this come out. In addition, there's another video over here that we've teed up for you to watch in this particular series again on improving your mental toughness for sports. If you have a question go to peaksports.com click on contact us and send us your mental game question we can't guarantee it'll be in a video blog but we'll certainly respond to everyone who emails us at peaksports.com. Thanks, we'll see you next week.