Are you feeling stuck and helpless with your throwing right now? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Conn. I'm here with Brock McCormack. We're here to give you some tips on how to get beyond the yips. You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. All right. So, what's the first step in really overcoming the yips? You know, many athletes feel overwhelmed and ashamed, you know, unsure of where even to start. Well, the first step is really acceptance. It's accepting that, hey, I have to make an adjustment now. There's something that's a little bit off between my mind and my body. Almost just accepting and leaning into the yips can make the experience a little bit easier because the more you try to run from it, it's going to get harder and harder to overcome. >> And I assume, Brock, when you say run from it, then players are actually denying what's going on with them and thinking that it couldn't be. They don't have the yips. They've seen their teammates have the yips before, but it's impossible for them to have the yips. And then what do they write it off as? Do they write it off as a bad day or do they write it off as a mechanical issue? Ultimately, if they're denying it, then what is it? >> Yeah, there's a lot of denial because people don't want to admit to having the gifts because there's a lot of stigma around how challenging overcoming this can be. And unfortunately, yeah, there are some bad stories about players dealing with the IPS. That doesn't mean it has to be you, right? So, the denial can get written off very easily as I'd say mechanicalbased issues would be the most common one I see with pitchers and catchers is something's off with my throwing motion. Well, the biggest problem is that players try to outwork the yips, which is if I throw more, if I work on my mechanics more, if I film my throwing sessions, if I get advice from a bunch of different coaches and teammates, I can outwork this problem. >> Yeah. And what's interesting, I think it's different for different people in terms of where it shows up. I mean, you and I have worked with ball players that it shows up in their short toss when they're just warming up. Maybe for a pitcher, they don't see it in the bullpen, but then once they get on the mound, they'll see it. So, it's across the board from just that short toss warming up with a teammate all the way to on the mound or on the field, it'll show up. So, what's the relevance behind that? Whether it's showing up in your practice and your short toss versus only when you get on the field. >> Well, yeah, that's an interesting phenomenon because it's not the same for every person. It's not oneizefits-all. So, I think the biggest step would just kind of be uncovering your triggers. Is understanding for you personally, when do these yipped up throws show up the most. Let's say if it is in those shorter warm-up throws, for example, well, you could mix in some specific drills like making athletic throws and throws on the run to start to build up your trust at the beginning of your throwing sessions. Well, let's say it only shows up during game situations. Then we have a little bit of a deeper problem we might have to get into there, which is worrying about fear. Fear of failure and fear of embarrassment that might be showing up in those situations. >> So regardless of where it shows up for ball players, the bottom line is they've got to get to a point where away from fear, away from over control, away from fear of embarrassment and get back to throwing how they're capable of throwing. So what's one or two steps that we can take to help ball players with this process so that they don't feel helpless? >> Yeah, I mean the first step is just kind of accepting it without any shame and realizing that just because you can't make these throws right now doesn't mean that you're not ever going to be able to make those throws again. You still have the muscle memory within you. It's just being covered up by a disconnection between your mind and your body. So, your mind is not allowing your body to move naturally. The first step is well, how do we rebuild confidence in being able to throw? Well, let's let's use baseball as an example. When you go to pick up a baseball, your brain is instantly going to go to, uh-oh, don't yip this. Don't overthrow this. So, a cool little trick you can try out is try to throw something else. You see a lot of MLB pitchers warming up by throwing a football. Well, a football and using a different object can actually re-trigger the brain to trust, hey, I can still throw. I know how to do this. And that can rebuild the belief. >> Yeah. You don't have any experience with that implement. I've seen PGA Tour pros, for example, they'll start chipping or putting with their driver because it's a brand new implement and they don't have any negative experiences with that implement. But beyond, you know, changing up what they're throwing, what else can they do to help them get back on track, feel like they're moving in the right direction? Remember, it's not an all ornone thing. It's not you either have the yips or you don't have the yips. What we find that some players there's some freedom of the throwing in certain situations and then in other situations where they don't have that freedom and we want to increase that over time. >> Yeah. Well, the biggest thing that pops up is over coaching, right? is over coaching yourself through the throw with too many thoughts. So our goal with our athletes from the jump is how can we simplify your thought process? Couple different ways to go about that. The first one is give yourself some couple cues to think about like hey trust and react. Commit to my target. Let it happen. Whatever verbal cues that you need to use to walk yourself through it can allow you to simplify the process so that you're not letting your brain continue to spiral. >> Yeah. and maybe even talking with a teammate while you're throwing to distract you from overthinking that throw. >> Yeah, a lot of a lot of interesting stories in overcoming the yips with distractions could be singing a song in your head, chewing gum, you know, there's a lot of different strategies, but all of those have the intention of shutting off the conscious part of your brain and letting the subconscious, the muscle memory shine through. So, bottom line here to help you see through the forest is to start in low pressure situations. Start to simplify your throwing. Give yourself some cues in order to help you rely more on your muscle memory or what we talk about is really motor memory. Simplicity in situations where you know you can build up that confidence with accurate throws. And then you build upon that. I've been talking with Brock McCormack. Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Conn. You've been watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. If you want more information, jump over to throwing-s.com where we have other articles about the YIPS. In addition, check out peakports.com if you're interested in our one-on-one coaching for the YIPS. Thanks for watching.