 Do you tend to stop shooting at the end of the game when the pressure is on and you don't want to make a mistake? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn with Peak Performance Sports. I'm here with Carolyn Lawley. We're going to break it down and talk about how to make your best shots when you're under pressure at the end of the game and not just pass it. You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. Carolyn, I think for basketball players and all athletes alike, it's about that mindset at crunch time. It's about getting it done when you're under pressure and the game is tied and you've got to make a shot or you've got to make a stop, for example. I think that's what really separates great athletes from, you know, average athletes is, do they want the ball? Yeah, I think you'll notice those clutch players, those players that you trust taking that final shot, they're going after the ball. They're wanting that ball, they're calling for it and they've got a lot of confidence in themselves and their abilities. So I think definitely being able to trust in what you're doing is going to be important in shooting under pressure and performing under pressure in general. So what are some of the mistakes that ball players make when they're under pressure? Do you think it's mostly they're just going to dish it off? They don't want to take that last shot? Do you think it's they start to tighten up and they feel that tension in their legs or their arms? Do you think they worry about the outcome in the aftermath? What ultimately sabotages them that they're not able to perform up to their ability? Yeah, I think all of those things, I think playing it safe. So like you said, passing it up instead of taking an open shot, choosing to pass it to a teammate because you don't want that pressure of whether it's going to go in or it's not. I think a lot of athletes place the outcome, especially in those close games on themselves. And so they'll feel that if they miss the shot and the game is lost, then it's all on them. And that's why maybe they'll avoid taking that shot. So I think understanding going into games, there's always a risk of losing. There's always a risk of making mistakes. In fact, you are going to make mistakes. And so being able to understand and accept that, but still trust in your skills, go after the ball and give yourself the chance, the opportunity to make that shot is important. Yeah, and let's talk about that. What's going to give our athletes the best chance to do that? So there's, I don't know, 30 seconds left, 20 seconds left in the fourth quarter. You got to knock down a shot to tie it up or to go ahead. So what would be some of those skills that you would want athletes to really stay locked in and stay in that flow of the game? So I think just identifying it as it's the end of the game, the finality of it creates some of that anxiety and that worry in and of itself. So how do we get players beyond that? Yeah, I think number one is shifting your focus from the outcome and what could potentially happen to the moment in which whatever you're doing. So if you're on offense, you need to figure out how you're going to execute on offense. If you're going to take a shot, you need to go into that shot with a positive intention rather than being worried about missing or being worried about what's going to happen on the next play. I think the first thing is really staying present focused and focusing on the small things that you need to do to execute in that moment so that your focus isn't on, well, what if we lose? What if I missed this shot? Yeah, we talk a lot about it's just another play, right? Easy for us to say and tell our athletes it's just another play in the game. But can athletes trick themselves into we're still in the middle of the third period and we're just running another play? That normalize it for them or that's just asking for too much? Well, I would say that I think some athletes perform even better under pressure because they almost accept it and embrace the pressure. So for them, pretending like it's just any other part of the game may not be beneficial. But if you're someone who really tightens up and plays back on your heels, really focusing on, again, what you're doing in the moment and that it's no different than the way that you would do that movement or that shot at any other point in the game, I think will be important for athletes who tend to tense up in the pressure moment. So some of the same concepts we talk about a lot in the world of sports psychology. You have to stay in the moment, stay in the flow of the game. You got to want the ball, continue to be aggressive, love the challenge you're in. No, that's why you play the game because you want that challenge. You want the feelings of being able to take that last shot to win the game, for example, or tie up the game and let go of the outcome. I'm hearing a lot of that. Let go of the worry and the outcome. Am I going to disappoint parents, coach, teammates and just really be athletic and in the flow in the moment like it's another play? Absolutely. And I think you're going to give yourself the best chance at succeeding or executing that moment when you are able to stay in the present moment and not focused on what could potentially happen with the outcome. So again, like you mentioned, reframing it in the fact like this is an opportunity that I'm getting. I get to have the ball in my hands in the final seconds of this game rather than I have to or I'm scared of the outcome. Did you have these ideas and skills when you were playing ball? You know, a few of them, but I think being able to work with a mental coach would have been really helpful because I would find myself playing back on my heels, passing up some open shots and really worrying about what happens if I miss this shot and I cause us to lose the game. So being able to shift my mindset as an athlete, I think would have been really beneficial for me. And if you want a mental coach, look us up at Peak Performance Sports, that's peaksports.com, contact us, or check out the one-on-one virtual mental performance coaching programs. Thanks.