 Are you cooked after you make a couple mistakes early in the game? Are you cooked after you make a couple mistakes early in the game? And you just can't get your head back into the game? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Cohen with Jacqueline Ellis. Today we're gonna talk about how to handle mistakes better so you can get your head back in the game. You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. Jacqueline, one of the biggest complaints from sports parents is my young athlete explodes. Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per Per And they build a lot of confidence in those hours of hard work. But then they want to slap on this expectation of, well, I know how to do this skill. I'm very good at executing this skill. So I should never mess up. But that's just not reality. So that sounds like a perfectionist in my mind. You think it's the perfectionists that struggle with mistakes the most? I do. I do think it's a classic perfectionist. What makes it so awful? Well, to them, they feel like they put in so many hours of their time that they should have perfected this skill by now. But again, that's not the case. And they're not allowing room for error. Is that coming from themselves, just being really hard on themselves? Or do you think it's coming from coaches or teammates? Where's that coming from? A lot of times we find that the classic perfectionist has a lot of these characteristics from mom and dad. And while there may be some advantages to perfectionism, a lot of times it's hurting them on the field. So it's coming from parents. And sometimes it is coming from the athlete. They are very self-critical. And all they can think about and focus on are their mistakes. What are the typical reactions that athletes have when they make mistakes? And then how do coaches react? I would think sometimes coaches, when they see the player beside themselves, it's like, well, I got to pull them off the field and sit them down for a little bit. Or I got to give them a talking to. Like, this is unacceptable. Because I think it also hurts the team atmosphere. Yes, unfortunately, a lot of that poor body language, poor facial expressions are contagious to the team. And a lot of times the coaches will pull that player so that the player can have a breather on the sideline and be able to reset if they can't do it on their own. And this is where we come in and do coaching with them on managing composure. But a lot of typical reactions, it could be, again, poor body language, the head goes down, they start slumping, maybe they kick the ground or put their hands in the air. Or for young athletes, it could be crying, even in the middle of the game. Or perhaps it comes out in gameplay and they start distancing themselves from teammates or lashing out at teammates. Yeah, we tell parents, punishing your athletes for that behavior, punish them for getting upset with mistakes, doesn't give them the skills to reset or recover. Same with coaches, right? If you're just going to yank them out of the game because he's angry, that tells them it's wrong or heard that it's wrong. But it doesn't give them any direction or skills for how to be able to pull it back together quickly. So let's talk about what some of those skills are for athletes. What do athletes need to do going into the game? Because I could think the mindset that you take into the game, that you step onto the field with, is going to impact your ability to manage those mistakes as well. Yes, the approach is extremely important. So one thing that I recommend to all my classic perfectionist athletes is making sure that they truly shift into game mode when they do arrive for game time. So that means we're leaving behind the practice mindset and we are not thinking as much about technique. We're not judging every movement, every skill, every feeling. We are simply giving room for mistakes, right? I am human. I make mistakes. I'm going to keep things simple today instead of overthinking it. That can be a game changer for athletes going into game time. Yeah, that word judgment is massive, I think, in this case, because if you weren't judging, then it's really hard to get upset. You're judging based upon your expectations of how you should be doing versus how you are doing. So judgment is absolutely key here. I also like to talk about the triggers, though, for athletes. Let's identify what is your push buttons. Is it getting beat on A-50-50 ball, for example? Is it missing the goal? Is it missing a shot on net? Is it making a really bad pass? Is it someone just beating you one-on-one? Let's define what those triggers are and let's develop some coping responses even before you get on the field. So we call that anticipate and cope in our work, as you know, Jacqueline. What would be a good example of that anticipate and cope strategy? Yes. Okay, so let's say the soccer player really gets frustrated when they lose the ball. It could be as simple as losing the ball anytime. Maybe they try a new skill or maybe it's a 1v1 or whatever. So they lose the ball. We identify that as the trigger. I might even ask them, okay, well, how do you feel when you lose the ball? Is it I'm feeling anxious now or I'm feeling angry or upset or frustrated or sad? Okay, so we try to identify the emotion present as well and then we can try to come up with a coping response. Okay, so when you lose the ball next time, how do we want that situation to progress? What can you do about it? Can we be productive here? Are you going to run back? Are you going to stand there? Or are you going to run back and support your teammate and try to win the ball back quickly? There really isn't time to have an emotional response. So, you know, I encourage my athletes to separate the emotion. You can have passion for the game, but emotion really doesn't belong in that situation. Well, yeah, passion is good, but negative emotions like frustration, anger, and certainly worry aren't going to help. So what I'm understanding is you're really giving the athlete a different way of looking at that mistake. You're giving them some different self-talk that they can go to, a different reaction, right? And I think having the athlete be able to choose something different. And I call it the old script. You know, the old script is I should never mess up on my first touch or I should never give the ball away on a bad first touch, right? Well, it happens, right? Even pros do that. So it's really giving them a different response so that they can really play on quickly. They can go try to win the ball back, try to get back into position and play on. The biggest challenge, obviously, is dwelling. When athletes are dwelling, they don't have their head in the game, obviously. What else can athletes do to help them reset quickly? One of my favorites is the idea of a reset button. Something quick that they can use in that moment that will help them reset. It could be anything from using get-out-of-jail-free cards. Maybe you give yourself, you know, four or five get-out-of-jail-free cards for the entire game or maybe for that half of the game. And you can say, okay, that's my get-out-of-jail-free card. I'm turning this in. That's my freebie, right? I don't, I'm choosing not to dwell on this mistake. So that's one of my favorites. You know, you can do some brainstorming with your athletes in what that reset button will look like for them. See what they like. You know, there are so many ideas out there, especially for the young athletes. It could be something like, you know, tightening your ponytail for the ladies or maybe untucking your shirt or retucking your shirt in. Something quick that they can do while they're actually out there on the field. Great ideas. Hey, we have a great audio and workbook program. It's called Soccer Confidence 2.0. It takes you through 11 mental strategies or 11 of the most important lessons we teach our athletes in our one-on-one sessions. If you're interested in that, jump over to peaksports.com and check out our product section, our sports-specific products. Or we do one-on-one coaching with our athletes via FaceTime and Zoom. If that's something that interests you, you can check out our coaching programs. All right. Thanks, Jacqueline.