 Are you so nervous before the game that you feel like your stomach is churning and almost like you want to throw up? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Combe with Carolyn Lawley. We're going to talk about how to calm your nerves before the game so you can go in and have a good start. You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. Carolyn, one of the biggest issues we deal with are ball players that tend to get really nervous and anxious before they play. And one of the things where we like to start is to talk about the difference between pre-game jitters, which most athletes get, and also performance anxiety. We put those in two totally different categories. Can you talk a little bit about that? I think the number one thing that distinguishes the two is does it last into the game or does it go away? So pre-game jitters, those are going to be before the game, and then once that ball goes up in the air, the tip goes up, generally those kind of subside. Whereas pre-performance anxiety, a lot of the times that's going to last throughout the whole game and cause you to play tentatively, cause you to play back on your heels, things like that. But break it down for me. What am I feeling and thinking with pre-game jitters? And then what am I thinking and feeling with performance anxiety? How can I identify the difference as a ball player? Yeah, so the pre-game jitters, that's that nervous energy, feeling kind of antsy, ready to go, pumped up, things like that. It's kind of just preparing you for the start of the game. Whereas if you look at the pre-performance anxiety, a lot of the times that's going to be a pit in your stomach, you're shaky, not feeling great. And when that tip goes up, you feel sometimes a lack of control of your body, of your limbs, things like that. And that nervousness just kind of heightens, it doesn't subside. And I think with performance anxiety, you have a lot more worry, apprehension, concern, maybe anxiety. So I feel like it's more in your head where you're really worrying about your performance, you're worrying about the outcome, you're worrying about how well you stack up with your opponent, who you're guarding, for example. Whereas, as you said, the jitters are more about just feeling excited and pumped up and juiced. Absolutely. I think the core of performance anxiety is fear of failure. So worrying about potentially the outcome, worrying about what others may think of you, feeling like you have to perform a certain way or this or that is going to happen. Whereas pre-game jitters are preparation, nerves, and getting you amped up to play. There's not usually a lot of self-doubt or lack of confidence that goes with that. So the first thing that we want to do with players is we want to make sure it's not just garden variety pre-game jitters. In other words, we don't want them to term pre-game jitters into anxiety, which happens with a subset of players. They feel their heart rate, respiration, sweaty palms, and now they're worried that they have anxiety. So the first place we start is, hey, let's embrace those feelings as a challenge. This is fun. This is why I play. So that's the first step that we want to take with helping with the pre-game anxiety, because it might not be pre-game anxiety. You just might be interpreting the jitters the wrong way. So that's a more simple solution, but let's say they do have pre-game anxiety, worry, performance anxiety, if you will. Then what approach do we need to take there? Yeah, I think the first step is identifying what are you worried about? What is the fear behind that pre-performance anxiety? So once you can identify that, then you can kind of start working backwards and understanding what's causing you to feel this, that anxiety, and then go from there. I think the underlying fear is absolutely critical. And what do you think some of those underlying fears are that cause players to be anxious before the game? I think fear of failure in general, so just worry that they're not going to perform well. Another one can be fear of disappointing others, so maybe parents or coaches or anyone that's watching. I think that's a common one. So playing time, fear of getting benched, getting embarrassed, I think as well. Fear of not reaching your expectations or others' expectations. Like, I've got to get 10, 12 points today, like others expect me to, my parents expect me to. So I think a lot of this goes back to the expectations that athletes put on themselves that create some of that fear. What about if I disappoint others? What about if I disappoint a parent? So what's the best way we can get athletes beyond that issue of they're just really concerned with reaching others' expectations and not disappointing a coach or teammates or parents? Yeah, I mean, I think breaking it down a little bit. So what's the worry if you do disappoint them? Maybe if it's something where you're worried about disappointing your parents, go and have a conversation. A lot of athletes will kind of contribute to that mind reading where they believe that their parents are going to be disappointed, but that's maybe never something that they've actually expressed to them. So breaking that down a little bit, using those rationalization skills to understand that maybe what we fear is going to happen actually won't happen. Do athletes need to do anything different in a big game? Like if they have some of those pregame worries, pregame anxiety, because it's a big game, how would you want them to approach it differently, if at all? I think keeping the same level of intensity, the same preparation is going to be important no matter if the game is a big game or just a regular game. So I think not placing a whole lot of emphasis on these bigger games is important because just because it's a bigger game doesn't necessarily mean that anything needs to change. It just means that your preparation, you need to trust in your preparation even more, essentially. Same ball, same size court. Exactly. Right? Same size rim, same skills, nothing's changed. It's just the perception of that game and the importance of that game changes, which can ultimately change your thinking and thus your performance. Great. I've been talking with Carolyn Lolley of Peak Performance Sports. If you want more information about mental performance coaching, jump over to peaksports.com. That's Peak Performance Sports and we do mental training, mental performance coaching with athletes via FaceTime, Zoom, and of course in person as well. Thanks.