 narex, over to peaksports.com and click on our coaching programs where you can get a free 15 minute introductory coaching session. In this video, we're gonna talk about if your bus arrives late or the car arrives late to the game, what can you do to not panic? You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. So Jacqueline, a lot of our perfectionist athletes, they get to the game, they only have 20 minutes to warm up or less. They can't do their full hour warmup, for example, and they start to panic, they start to doubt, they start to worry how they're gonna perform well in the game. What's operating there under the hood for those athletes? Yeah, so as you mentioned, those are our perfectionist athletes. They, it almost seems like they have the superstition that everything is supposed to go exactly according to plan. And that's not life, that's not sport. So if they're late to the game, or if they forget some part of their equipment, they panic. And they think, oh, this is going to hurt my performance, even before the game has even started. Yeah, I like to call it, the stars have to align for them. They have to have everything in place for them. Their equipment, they have to be able to go through their stretching, their entire warmup routine. They have to have a good warmup to feel confident. That's part of it as well. In other words, their performance has to shine in the warmup. But you and I know you don't have to win warmups. A warmup is just a warmup to get ready, right? If you arrive late to the game, or you have a meeting with coach or something that prevents you from doing your full warmup, then how can we help those athletes still feel confident at the start of the game? Yeah, so we can give athletes a plan A and a plan B for their warmups. So plan A is where the stars may align and things are going according to plan, and you're feeling great that day, and then you go compete. But we want to have the athlete feel confident and feel prepared. So let's come up with a plan B so that if they are late, or if the warmup doesn't go great, or if they do forget something, hey, it's OK. We can still get the job done with what we have. And this is something that I always remind my athletes, you know, can we be flexible with the warmup? Whether you're playing at home or away, things will not always be what you imagine when you get there. So we want to have those strategies planned out for if it does happen. Yeah, and you might ask your bench players that are sitting down, they're somewhat cold, and then they have to go into the game and perform on moments notice. You might ask some of those teammates, well, how do you feel prepared going into the game on a moment's notice like that, right? Because sometimes you're going to be called upon right off the bench, and you're not going to be fully warmed up. You're not going to be ready. So what are the, would you say are the most important ingredients then? If we're going to shorten that warmup for them, what are the most important ingredients that's going to allow them to feel more comfortable? So they can be doing a mental warmup, even on the car ride to the game, they can start practicing their visualization in their position and their role. They can be listening to music to get hyped up for the game. They can be reviewing their confidence resume of success or reviewing past success videos. And they can do all of that leading up to the game. And when they arrive, they can do a shortened or a condensed physical warmup and still feel prepared for the game. I hear it from a lot of tennis players. They don't need the hour warmup before they play in the match. So a 20 to 30 minute warmup is sufficient. So we can condense it and we can prove to them that a plan B warmup is just as effective. If that is what needs to happen today. Dr. John McClure Physically, I would say you want to get in that stretch, certainly to reduce injury. So maybe an abbreviated stretch that you might do in your regular warmup. I would also say, get the intensity up, get the heart rate going, get the intensity at a level that you want if you're a starter, doing some sprints back and forth, and obviously getting a few touches on the ball, maybe some shots, some passes where you're feeling the ball a little bit. And really that routine shouldn't take you longer than 15 to 20 minutes, you know, right out of the bus or right out of the car to feel somewhat comfortable with it. And I think it's the mindset too, is not to panic, but to have some self-talk ready to go that would help, you know, alleviate your worries about that. So if we could give a couple of self talk statements that the athlete could run with, that they could feel comfortable with that abbreviated warmup, what would that be? Dr. Sure. Maybe it's something like, I don't need my full warmup today to perform well on the pitch. I have the skills needed to do well, or I have a plan B warmup that I can use. And I do feel confident in that plan B warmup. Dr. Yeah. And the warmup is just a warmup. It's not an omen for how I'm going to play. I'll get focused and dialed in. Certainly once the adrenaline kicks in at kickoff. So I know that I can perform well. So having some prepared self-talk is going to help as well. Thanks, Jacqueline. Jacqueline is one of our mental performance coaches, like I said, at Peak Performance Sports. I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn. Jacqueline works with a lot of our collegiate high school, junior athletes, including a lot of soccer players. And myself, I work with some of the professional athletes here at Peak Performance Sports. So if you're interested, jump over to peaksports.com and contact us. Thanks. Thanks. Thanks.