 are you, жиз жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жизe, жиз version. What we have to do is really dial it down and find out is it garden variety normal pregame jitters for athletes or is there something else operating? Is there some real fears, some real fear of failure, performance anxiety? We put those in two different categories. Let's start with breaking those two down and the difference between those concepts. Great. So I usually start with the question of the symptoms, you know, so I will start with describing pregame jitters. That is where you might feel the butterflies in your stomach. It's more of a fluttery feeling. Maybe your heart rate is increased and it's usually where you're feeling excited and the jitters or those nerves usually go away right at the start of the game. Then we go to performance anxiety and it's very much the opposite. It's not a fluttery feeling in your stomach. It's like a knot or someone punched you in the gut. It's very uncomfortable. You're not excited about competing. You are overwhelmed with anxiety and worry and you can't stop thinking about the outcome. And oftentimes it stays with you during competition. So in your experience, how many players do you feel like have the pregame jitters and how many have the performance anxiety? And is there a quick shift that we can make or is that a difficult due to ask someone with performance anxiety that, hey, no, it's not that bad. It's just pregame jitters and you don't have to worry about it. Yes. And here's where it gets tricky because many athletes don't realize that you get to interpret your own nerves. So a lot of times the athlete athlete is actually experiencing pregame jitters, but they get those symptoms and they don't like the feeling of being nervous and they interpret that as performance anxiety. And then once they think it's performance anxiety, it grows and grows and it's all they can think about. And then it does turn into performance anxiety when maybe it just started out as some regular nerves and jitters. Yeah. Um, so sweaty palms would be one of the symptoms, increased breathing, maybe tension in the shoulders, maybe a little bit of confusion, or you're not thinking clearly, your mind is racing a little bit more than you'd like it to not as calm. In other words, those sound like I'm anxious, but in reality, I'm not anxious. I'm just interpreting as I'm anxious because of those feelings can be associated with being anxious or worried. Okay. So from that perspective, then how do we get athletes to accept those pregame jitters so that they don't turn into worries or anxieties? And I will say, on the other hand, I worked with a golfer and this is a veteran golfer, let's call it a senior tour, champions tour golfer, that if they don't get some type of arousal or intensity or jitters, they start to worry, right? So veterans start to worry if they're not feeling that because they know it's totally natural and normal for them to have those type of feelings. But if they don't, does that mean they're not caring anymore? Does that mean they're not intense enough or focused enough for the round, for example? But what can we do with the athlete that has pregame jitters, but turns it into anxiety? Yeah. So we can help that athlete with pregame jitters to reframe those symptoms that we've been talking about and the feelings that they're having. For example, you know, a lot of athletes don't like that increased heart rate and we can say, all right, let's reframe it. An increased heart rate means that you have a strong heart and that you are ready to compete. That's your body's way of telling you, hey, wake up, you're ready to compete. Let's go out there and do your thing. Yeah. That adrenaline boost makes those changes and athletes have to accept that that additional adrenaline of going out and doing battle on the pitch really is helpful for you. It's going to get you up. It's going to get you excited. You want to reframe it from that perspective that it's going to be helpful for you. As Ken Reviza used to say, just get the butterflies to fly in formation. And that's going to help you once you get on the pitch. The other category is the performance anxiety, which is a bigger umbrella for us than how do athletes know it's performance anxiety? What's the signs there when they start the game? In addition, what can we do to help? Yes. And one common symptom that I've been hearing recently is vomiting. If your athlete is vomiting or feeling nauseous as they approach competition, that is not a sign of pregame jitters. That is a sign of performance anxiety. We want to address that. So I would ask the athlete or the parent, you know, when is this starting? What are the thoughts associated with the vomiting? And, you know, even today I spoke with an athlete and the mom said the idea that it's a sensitive stomach, but that's really not it. It's the performance anxiety happening here. So we want to understand what the athlete is worried about, you know, and today I asked the athlete, well, what are the consequences if you don't perform well? And she said, well, I really want a medal. I want to make sure that I medal every competition. She's working herself up so much so that she's feeling anxious to the point where she's vomiting. And this approach to competition is making her underperform. So we also have to dig in and find out what are the ultimate fears? What's going on? Is it fear of failure, social approval, fear of not performing up to your expectations after putting in all the hard work? We have to unravel that for the athlete and get them to understand what's rational and what's irrational about it. A lot of times when it's fear of failure, a lot of things are irrational. This is true. All right. I've been talking with Jacqueline Ellis, One of our mental performance coaches at Peak Performance Sports works in the area of soccer and many other sports. If you want more information about the one-on-one mental training, we do it via FaceTime and Zoom today, which is very convenient for most athletes and parents. No drive time involved. If that's the case, check us out at peaksports.com and click on our coaching. Thanks.