Do you coach a sport but also compete and when you go to competition you feel a little bit out of place? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn, in this video I'm going to talk about how you can feel like you belong when you go and compete. Your watching sessions with Doc and this is my new series on mental toughness in sports. So here's the question that I received from Rick. He said "I'm a tennis coach and I also compete in local and national tournaments, occasionally, but most of the time when I start the match I play timid tennis. I feel strange as if I don't belong on the court. How can I learn to be more mentally tough and feel like I should be there?" well Rick the first question that I would want to ask you is what happens when you play timid tennis because that's different for different people. In other words, are you afraid of unforced errors you afraid of making mistakes are you afraid double-faulting do you focus on all the negatives on the on the don'ts and what not to do or do you just not player normal game you just hit it down the center of the court you know hoping that your opponent is going to miss and you don't really go for your approach shots or you don't go to the net when you have the opportunity to go to the net. So is it more of a mindset change for you or is it more of the tactics and I'm going just for the sake of this video I'm going to assume it's a little of each that number one you're changing your tactics you're playing a little bit more safe and then also timid to me timid tennis means you're afraid to make mistakes and hit out on the ball now as far as going out and feeling strange part of that may be because you're more comfortable in the coaching position you said you only compete occasionally so part of that may be the issue in other words if you're only competing three times a year you're gonna feel like a fish out of water so one of the answers is maybe you need to compete a little bit more on the local level so you feel more comfortable when you go into those national tournaments and that's always a problem for instructors and coaches is they're always working hard with their students and their athletes and it's hard for you to carve out time for yourself to go and do those things so that may be part of it to the other part is you have to ask yourself before you step on the court and say, "did I pay my entry fee?" well I guess you did if you're there so I can only then do I deserve to be here yes did you qualify for that national tournament based on your ranking yes then you deserve to be there so you have to convince yourself you have to find ways to convince yourself that you belong there you deserve to play at that level especially if you qualified for that. the other part of that is playing timid tennis you know what I'm going to say I'm going to say go out there with your tactics and play aggressive tennis in other words make it your goal and make it your your small objective to go out there and play aggressive tennis because you know your tendency is to play timidly so basically you want to fight that with tactics mental tactics such as ok what are you gonna do to play more aggressive tennis hey when I have a short ball I'm going for I'm going for the kill I'm going for the put away or hey when I get drawn up to the net I'm not gonna retreat I'm gonna go and I'm gonna go up there and I'm gonna volley and you know what I'm not going to just get in this blooper on my second serve I'm gonna go for my second serve so you have to define what aggressive tennis is you have to see yourself playing more aggressively through your visualization your pre-match visualization set that up in your mind but when you step on thay court absolutely have to know that you belong there you deserve to be there just like any other player in the tournament regardless of you only play in a few of these things thanks for your question good luck with your game. Hey if you want more videos and you're not a subscriber yet to mindset for sports please subscribe my videos using this button up here in the upper right-hand side and in addition there is another video over here queued up for you on this series on mental toughness in sports. Go check that one out, your watching sessions with doc and we'll see you next week.