 Are you seeing bad pictures in your mind before you go out and play? Hi, I'm Patrick Hohn with Jacqueline Ellis, our mental coach at Peak Performance Sports. Today, we're going to talk about how to visualize in the right way to improve your performance. You're watching the Sports Psychology podcast. Jacqueline, one of the most important concepts, I think, for athletes is that they're seeing in their mind what they want to do instead of seeing in their mind what they don't want to do. In other words, failing. I remember I worked with a young golfer many years ago, and I asked her if she was visualizing her shots, and she said, no, I stopped doing that. And I said, well, why? She said, because whenever I visualized a shot, I would see a bad shot in my mind. And that's certainly not what we want for athletes. So have you worked with any athletes that have that negative imagery going on? Yes, it is more common than a lot of people think, especially in soccer, depending on the position. If they're playing striker and they see a negative image of, let's say, the ball going over the post, over the goal, or even whipping the ball, not making contact at all. And that can be really hurtful to performance. Yeah, or generally before a game, they could have a feeling that I'm going to fail, like, or I'm not going to succeed today. Pros would never do that, right? But they have this feeling I'm going to fail, I'm not going to succeed, I'm going to disappoint others. And that's absolutely the opposite of what you want pregame to have that general disposition that you're going to fail. Then all the images start flying in to your head about what not to do and making mistakes out there. So let's talk about what is mental rehearsal? What is visualization? Let's break it down for the audience. Sure. So there are several phrases, words that we use to describe visualization. Anytime you hear guided imagery, mental imagery, all of that is describing this idea of visualization where you can use the images in your mind, certain feelings, really all of the senses to help you improve performance. So it's really just taking your skills, trying to see them in your mind and recreate those skills and feelings, even mental game skills to help you improve performance for competition. But your athletes are already doing that somewhat naturally, aren't they? No one has to really teach them how to visualize or how to mental rehearse. It kind of happens naturally, right? It does. It's almost sort of daydreaming. A lot of athletes tend to daydream about their sport and come up with all of the what if scenarios. So if you can visualize success, that would better help performance. But a lot of these athletes are visualizing the failures, as you mentioned, and that's hurting performance now. On the opposite side of the spectrum, though, you have athletes that are trying to visualize perfect plays, like they're going to kick it right, absolutely in the corner where the goalie is not going to get to it. But then when they don't execute like they imagined or visualized, then they say, well, what's wrong with me? Right. And that can be a big issue as well. If we're trying to imagine perfection, perfection doesn't exist, right? But we encourage our athletes to visualize realistic scenes, you know, and success is great, but something more realistic. So it doesn't have to be, you know, top top, top, top corner of the goal. It can be, you know what, maybe I visualize taking a shot and the keeper gets a hand on the ball, but it still goes in. That would be a little bit more realistic. So let's say that I'm a player and I'm I have some negative images going through my mind before the game. I've been working on my dribble with my opposite foot, and I'm worried about losing the ball with my opposite foot. So what would you recommend that I do then if that happens? So in this example, I would ask you to stop, catch yourself in that moment, visualizing yourself making the mistake, rewind the tape, and then I'd ask you to visualize yourself successfully executing that skill. What would it look like for you to successfully dribble with your non dominant foot or whatever the task is? Also visualize how you could do that skill confidently. What would that feel like or doing the skill with trust in your abilities, being athletic with that skill, and not overthinking that skill. So often when I work with my athletes, I want them to visualize in the mindset that they want to successfully execute and not just the physical components of the skill. Right, yes, we can include those mental game skills alongside the technical skills. Absolutely, yes, they can be paired together, I believe. What are the best times for athletes to mentally rehearse or visualize? That's the beauty of visualization. You can use it pregame to prepare for game time, visualize your position, what your role is going to be on the field. You can also visualize during the game, even if you're on the bench or if you're on the field. Visualize yourself making successful passes to teammates or taking great shots or taking shots in general. You can go through your position and let your mind wander a little bit. There really is no wrong way to visualize or wrong time as long as you are correcting those negative images in your mind as you go. Yeah, and I like the idea of coming off the bench, being mentally prepared, visualization, mental rehearsal is a great way to see yourself coming out with intensity and focus and being dialed in right from the first minute when you're out there. Great, I've been talking with Jacqueline Ellis of Peak Performance Sports. If you want more information about one-on-one mental coaching or our soccer program, Soccer Confidence 2.0, jump over to peaksports.com and we'll see you there. Thanks.