 hydro that they have so much confidence from their training and their training routines that they do and then they go into a game and honestly start to self-sabotage themselves and hurt their own confidence. What's going on there? Yes, Dr. Cohn, it could be several things that are hurting this athlete's confidence as they start the game. We would call these confidence killers. There are many common confidence killers. Here's one of the big confidence killers that we see often, comparing to others. A lot of athletes during the warm-up are looking over to the other team, they're watching players take their shots, passing, dribbling. It can be quite intimidating if you're watching those players. Yeah, I think another big one is simply doubt or what we call self-doubt. They'll get in the game at the start of the game and they'll be questioned, even at the high level, even at the collegiate level and at the semi-pro level, they'll get in the game and they'll start questioning, did I practice enough this week? How was the quality of my practice, right? Does coach believe in me? Do my teammates believe in me? It's all of a sudden these just doubts come out of nowhere. And so that's another huge confidence killer that we see with athletes. Yes. What's another one? Another confidence killer is the idea of wanting to be perfect when they come to game time. They have this idea that, you know, I play really well in practice and I'm going to strive to replicate that when I go to the game. And so they're trying to make all of their skills look good and have everything feel great. And that's not what sport is about. It's not going to be perfect. We need to be able to stop judging how everything looks and feels and just roll with it. Yeah. And for those athletes that need a good warmup, that can be a source of doubt as well. If you don't have a good warmup and you're questioning that, hey, my legs felt heavy in the warmup or I didn't connect on a couple of passes, that can ultimately lead to some doubt for athletes as well. So you obviously want to be mindful of all these confidence killers, right? So we need to address those confidence killers. We talk about two ways to improve confidence in our work. One is proactive confidence, bringing it to the game. But however, you can't bring it to the game if you got all these confidence killers going on at the same time. So we have to do both. So where do you think we should start? Should we start with that proactive confidence piece? Or do you think maybe addressing some of the confidence killers for your athletes? I would start with the proactive confidence piece. I want to build a foundation with my athlete. And, you know, we discussed this exercise called the confidence resume, where we start to list out all of their strengths, all of their accomplishments, and then that builds the foundation for them. So I would start with the proactive confidence, and then we can start to discuss those confidence killers and make them aware. Yeah. And proactive confidence is simply just bringing a high level of confidence to the game and doing some things mentally that are going to help you feel confident, such as maybe recalling some successful plays from a previous game, or recalling a good practice or a good scrimmage as well. So we also have to address the confidence killers. Otherwise, confidence is going to evaporate. I look at it as those little Pac-Men that are eating away at your confidence, right? And we don't want those little Pac-Men to be eating away at your confidence, that little devil on your shoulder, so to speak. Where do we start? Earlier, I talked about the warmup. So what can we do in the warmup that's going to help players have less doubt or feel more comfortable with their skills? Yes. So number one, stop judging the warmup. It's important that you understand what the purpose of the warmup is. And the purpose is to get your body loose, get into athlete mode, start passing, start shooting, start communicating with teammates. So you're just getting into competition mode. It's not about perfect. And we don't want to be judging every little thing going on there. Yes. Excellent tip. In addition to that, we have to address those doubts, right? And we have a specific system that we use to address those doubts. And that is, what are they? What are your typical doubts based upon past games? And then we like to rebut or we like to refute. We like to have your own comebacks, if you will, for each doubt. So what does that look like? If you give me an example of refuting a specific doubt, let's say I didn't have a good week of practice, a good quality week of practice. And I'm questioning whether I can play well because of that. So the doubt is, I don't think I had a good week of practice. This might affect my performance in the game. Yeah. And a good rebuttal for that one could be, well, practice is over and done with. This is game time. It's a new day. I have all the skills and tools needed to perform well. I know exactly what to focus on. I have my game plan or I have my objective set and I'm going to choose to focus on that and not dwell on the past. The past practices have nothing to do with today's game or tomorrow's game. Yeah. So it's like being your own advocate, your own best coach, in essence. Think about what would the most positive teammates say to you if he or she heard you doubting. Kind of step outside yourself as well. Finally, what about the comparison piece? Because we know athletes tend to lose confidence when they start comparing themselves to others. What do we do there? Yes. And this is a really common one. A lot of athletes engage in making comparisons with others, but we want the athlete to understand why that's so hurtful. There is no point in comparing to another person. There will always be someone someone who is fast or strong or very skilled, but you're your own person. Let's get the athlete to focus on their own strengths. And we call it putting on your blinders. Put your blinders on so that you're only focused on your objectives and what you can contribute to the game. And let's stop looking and worrying about what everybody else is doing and what they have. Right. And that means focusing on what you have, what unique talents and abilities you bring to the game. Those are some great tips. Thanks, Jacqueline. Jacqueline Ellis, one of our mental performance coaches at Peak Performance Sports. If you want to investigate our one-on-one mental coaching and get a free sample, jump over to peaksports.com. Thanks.