Hi, when you go to races do get intimidated by the competition and this hurts your confidence? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn in this video I'm gonna talk about how to focus on your talents and abilities instead of getting intimidated by the competition. here's the question that I received from Arman. Arman says "I'm a race car driver from turkey. Now I'm new in racing and all my competitors are currently ex-go-kart pilots, rally drivers, or Formula three pilots. Others say that I have great talent for racing but my lack of experience and my lack of confidence are affecting my performance really badly. How can I be more confident with this limited experience in being new to the driving scene?" Yeah, great question I put this under the category of focusing too much on the competition and becoming self intimidated by the competition. In other words the competition isn't trying to intimidate you purposely but you're focusing on their experience, you're focusing on their talents the people that you race against and you're just thinking while they have more than I do they have better teams they are better skills they have better experience and the problem is you're putting other people on a pedestal above you and that will tend to drain your confidence and pull down your confidence certainly. So when you go to races my recommendation is focus on your talents and abilities not the talents and abilities of others. In other words, what are you good at? Are you good at overtaking? Are you good at blocking? Are you good at starts? What is it that you're good at? Are you fast in the turns? Are you a quick learner? You have to focus on your own talents and abilities and not gawk at and worry about the competitors. Now beyond that once you get on the track you're not racing these great ex-rally or f3 drivers that's not what you want to do when you go compete. You want to go race the track one section at a time, one lap at a time. So basically what that means is you wanna race yourself you want to go out there and do the best you can on each turn on each straight and basically focus on your lines and doing the best you can. At the end of the day you want to be able to say you know what I didn't get in my own way I didn't lose confidence I was focused, I was confident, I was trusting my skills, and I got the most out of my race car that day I got the most out of myself that's what you want to be satisfied with it the end of the day. Not really where you finished in relation to the other competitors. So go out there and treat it as a learning experience and focus on your capabilities your lines and at the end of the day be happy that you personally had a good race no matter where you finish in the race. Thanks for your question. Hey, if you want to learn more about how to boost your confidence in sports check out the confident sports kid if you have athletes that are 12 and younger or you can also check out the confident athlete. You'll find both of these at my website at peak sports.com and be sure to subscribe to my YouTube channel if you haven't. In addition check out other videos in this series on confidence and sessions with Doc. Thanks you've been watching sessions with doc and I'll see you next week!