 do you feel out of sorts when you come off the bench? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn with Carolyn Lolley. We're gonna talk about how to be prepared mentally and physically when you're coming off the bench and coach calls your number. You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. Carolyn, one of the challenges for players is being locked in and ready when their numbers call because you're sitting down, you get in a resting state, your heart rate is in a resting state, and then all of a sudden your number's called, you gotta go in and you gotta perform your best. On notice, what are the challenges around that for players? I think like you said, being able to stay locked in when you're on the bench to what's going on on the court can sometimes be difficult for athletes. And so I think the first step is really honing in on that focus, catching yourself when you feel like you are becoming distracted and refocusing. So that may look like picking a opponent on the floor and watching them kind of judging their habits with someone who you may guard if you go into the game. That may be a way that you can stay locked in and be ready when your numbers call. And I would say intensity is another challenge because you're sitting down for the most part, your heart rate comes back to a normal heart rate. And what we know about intensity and focus is the higher your intensity, the better you're going to focus on the court. And so that's a big challenge for getting the intensity up so you can focus your best, certainly. So what would you recommend for players to get their intensity up? I've been watching the US Open Tennis quite a bit and you see the players before important points, they're jumping up and down and back and forth and they're trying to get that heart rate up, they're trying to get moving to get that intensity up because in my estimation, intensity equals focus. How do we help them with that? So I think there's some physical aspects to that and then there's some mental aspects to the intensity. So staying locked in like we were talking about, keeping focused, that'll help with that intensity. But physically, so say your number's called number one while you're on the bench, you could keep your legs moving. If you watch the NBA, the WNBA when they come in, you may see them jump in a little bit, checking out their limbs to get that physical intensity up. If you have the option to go get on a bike or jump around a little bit before you're called, that may be something that you want to utilize as well. But you want to stay locked in mentally so that you have that intensity going in and then do what you can on the physical side. Yes, absolutely critical because that physical activation is gonna help the intensity. Whether it's bouncing in place or it's just running out to the court, to your position rapidly, something that's gonna get the heart rate up is gonna absolutely help the intensity. Okay, so we've talked about the focus, we've talked about the intensity. Where else do you want your athletes to be when they come off the bench? That will allow them to be locked in as quick as they can. I want every athlete coming off the bench to have a positive intention when they're going into the game. If you are coming off the bench, there may be some doubt on why am I not a starter or does coach think that I'm good enough to go in? I know as an athlete, if I ever came off the bench, I felt like I immediately needed to go in and perform or else I was going to be pulled straight out. So I think coming off the bench, no expectations, trusting in your skills, being decisive, instead of worrying about what you feel that you need to do and what coach feels that you need to do. So I'm hearing just make decent plays, make solid plays, don't feel like you have to make perfect plays out there and be great. Absolutely, if you're a shooter, don't feel like you need to go in in the first minute and hit three threes, right? Do what you can and what's given to you and trust in your abilities. And I think you brought up an important point about bench players when they're coming off. They are concerned about their playing time and how much they're gonna be on the game when they're going into the game. How can we defray that so that your players aren't thinking so much about the playing time, but they're thinking more about what they need to do on the court? Think reframing a little bit. So any chance that you get to go out on the court is an opportunity for you. And instead of thinking of it as I have to do this or I've gotta perform so that I can get more playing time, try to switch that mindset to, I get the opportunity to come out here and showcase what I've been practicing. And I'm gonna do the best that I can with what I have and what I've been practicing on. Yeah, and be a role player, right? Like focus on what your role is. Don't be all end all. Think about your process, your objectives when you're on offense, what you should be doing on transition and what you need to be doing on defense and dialing that down. So once you get on the court, you know exactly what you're going to do. What about visualizing to really stay in the game mentally, but also being mentally prepared when you go out there to run plays or run defenses? I think visualization is a wonderful tool to use, especially for someone who may be not getting as much playing time and be able to do the physical aspects, running through plays, shooting shots, getting reps, things like that. So taking a little bit of time, visualizing what you want to do when you step out on the court so that you do have that mental preparation. I think that's a great way to stay locked in and get prepared. And what would that look like for a shooter? What would that look like for a guard, for example? What do you want them visualizing? So for a shooter, I would suggest a spot on the floor that you tend to get a lot of your shots from and catching it smoothly, going into your shot and visualize yourself hitting that shot as many times as you can. And also don't forget the mental game there too, right? Like visualize yourself being decisive, trusting in your skills, having that positive intention that you want in that particular play. Great, I've been talking with Carolyn Lawley, one of our mental performance coaches at peakperformancesportsatpeaksports.com. If you want more information, jump over to peaksports.com and check out our one-on-one mental coaching programs, which we do virtually via FaceTime and Zoom with our athletes.