Hi, do you find yourself often performing better in practice than you do in competition? Well this is a number one reason why athletes come to see us at peak performance sports because they know they're under performing compared to what they're capable of in practice. Today I'm previewing the fearless athlete CD and workbook program which gives you all my strategies for how to take your practice game to competition. You're watching sessions with Doc. So the most common question that we get from athletes on a regular basis and the thing that trips athletes the most is they don't take their practice game to competition. Well why is that? Why don't athletes perform as well and competition? Is it from the pressure that they feel in competition? Do they fold? Do they choke? what is it? Well I'm going to talk about one issue that trips athletes once they go to competition often it's about fear of failure but in this case I'm going to talk about the fear of making mistakes and this is very particular to younger athletes as well is they're afraid to make mistakes and that really holds them back from being able to perform assertively or aggressively or be able to trust their skills in competition. The other issue is when athletes go from practice whether in the learning environment where mistakes are ok they're more relaxed as opposed when they go to competition and they're deathly afraid of making mistakes then they struggle with that because their whole modus operandi or their whole focus is to not make mistakes so why is it that athletes when they go from practice a competition they don't want to make mistakes? Well the biggest things that I find is athletes are afraid of disappointing others and what I mean by that is the athlete doesn't want to make a mistake get scored on or hit a bad shot or have a bad pass because they're afraid that the teammates are gonna look bad upon that athlete or the coach is going to look bad or say something bad or bench them for that mistake or if they make another mistake or two in a row and if they're young athletes they tend to worry about Oh what are my parents gonna think if I make mistakes? the other issue about mistakes is perfectionist athletes they tend to not want to make mistakes they tend to want to have that perfect performance so how do they do go about that they go about that by focusing on trying not to make mistakes and avoiding mistakes so what's the solution if you're the type of an athlete or your athletes out there trying to avoid mistakes what you need to do well first you need to get them aware of what they're doing hey, your performance looks a little bit more tentative a little bit more controlled in practice or in competition settings than it does in practice and then discuss with them what do you think you're worried about making mistakes do you think you're worried about what coaches gonna think or do you think you're afraid of disappointing your teammates for example find out and dig in what is it that they're afraid of then once you get to that stage and you find out why they're performing tentatively in practice then you need to give them some skills some things to focus on that's going to help them trust in their skills now ultimately only when athletes are afraid of making mistakes they second guess and they over analyze what they're doing so the key here to give them that trust in their skills is allowing them to the freedom to make mistakes they have to know it's okay to make mistakes absolutely but also getting them to react when they go on the ice or on the court or on the course or on the field they have to learn to react and not overthink and not second guess their decisions because they're afraid of making mistakes so it's really about being more decisive being more committed and teaching them just react to the input of your eyes that's the direction you need to go. Hey if you want more tips about how to take your practice game to competition go to peak sports.com and check out the fearless athlete CD and workbook program that's one of our top sellers and it gives you all my strategies for how to overcome the fear of failure for your mistakes and also trusting in your skills which means the ability to take your practice game to competition which is vitally vitally important for an athlete so you wanna head this off right now you want to deal with this right now and don't wait on it Well I hope you've enjoyed this mental game tip and I've got a lot of other tips for you to improve your confidence, focus, and composure what you want to do is subscribe to our YouTube videos if you haven't done so yet and you'll be notified when new videos like this come out in addition there's another video over here that we've teed up for you to watch in this particular series again on improving your mental toughness for sports. Hey if you have a question go to peaksports.com click on contact us and send us your mental game question we can't guarantee it'll be in video blog but we will certainly respond to everyone who emails us at peaksports.com. Thanks, we'll see you next week!