 why do some soccer players absolutely shine in practice? They're great practice players, but they're unable to take that practice game to competition. Hi, I'm Patrick Cohen with Jaclyn Ellis, our mental performance coach at Peak Performance Sports. Today, we're going to break it down and talk about why athletes struggle in games compared to practice and what you can do better to perform more consistently in games. You're watching the Sports Psychology podcast. So, Jaclyn, the number one reason that parents and athletes contact us is because they see that their athletes are doing great in practice, but then they tend to struggle in games. It's almost like they see two different athletes, right? Very confident, free-flowing, aggressive athlete in practice, and then someone that's maybe more tentative, more scared, more distracted in games. What's going on there? Yes, several things could be going on here. Partly due to fear failure, it could be that they're thinking about all the consequences that come with underperforming in competition. It could be the social approval. I'm wanting to perform really well for others, or I want to impress this person, come competition, and it's impacting how they perform. What about trying to be perfect out there? I mean, you would think, well, if I want to play well in the game, I got to be perfect. And so those athletes that are trying too hard to be perfect, that's probably not going to work for them either. No, those perfectionist athletes are probably going to try to control their performance too much, and over control leads to more mistakes. And that's another big challenge when athletes are trying to be too perfect, and that's not going to help you bring that consistent performance from practice. So I think partly we're talking about consistency here, being able to consistently perform like you're capable of in the practice situation. So are there things that players need to add to what they're doing, or do they need to subtract to some of the things that are happening for them? For example, do we need them to deal with the fear of failure and the anxiety and the worry leading to tentative play, or is it just a matter of helping them develop a new pregame routine that will unlock them? How about both? We can focus on adding the pregame routine, consistency, understanding what pregame mistakes they might be making, and then we can also help them manage those fears leading up to the game and manage the nerves and the anxiety as well. What are pregame mistakes in your mind? Pregame mistakes could be bringing an expectation into the game right from the very start, or worrying about what others think, again, before the game starts. You know, I'm already thinking about what mom and dad will say or do after the game if I don't perform well. Yeah. I would say we have to remove those barriers first and foremost in order to unlock the athlete's performance on the field. And then that's icing on the cake when we can start to work on the consistency of the pregame routine. Some of those things, I think, will help. But what do we have to do to help the athlete get unlocked? I mean, fear of failure is a big component. We could probably spend an hour talking about that. But what are the cliff notes in terms of helping athletes if they're afraid to fail, if they're afraid to disappoint a parent, they're afraid to disappoint coach or teammates? Where do we go with that? That's so strong. It is. And so a lot of it is understanding what the athlete is worried about. And those were great examples. We can determine what the fears or worries are first. And then we want to help them rationalize and help them understand what is reasonable here. Is it reasonable for you, the athlete, to be afraid of what might happen or what, you know, what are my parents going to say? What is coach going to do? Has coach ever pulled you out for making a mistake? Or is that a fear that you created? Right. And I would add to that, Jacqueline, that you have to go onto the field with a mindset that I'm not going to judge myself. And likewise, no one else is judging me at the level I think they're judging me at. I think athletes always think that all eyes are on them, right? And they're being judged constantly by others. I think with that overhang, it's going to be very hard to play freely with trust in your skills. Yeah, that's a good point. Sometimes we'll ask the athlete, you know, when your teammate makes a mistake, what do you think about that? Do you continue to think about your teammate's mistake? Is it the end of the world? Or do you move on and you forget about that mistake? So you're right. Sometimes that is an overhang and we think that others are judging us too harshly when in reality, they're not. So number one, we have to manage the fears, any fear of failure by rationalizing. We have to have a better mindset altogether about judgment and what others think. And then thirdly, developing a consistent pregame routine that gets you in that mindset of no expectations, trust in your skills, focused on one player, one touch at a time so that you can go out and perform like you do in practice. All right, I've been talking with Jacqueline Ellis, one of our mental performance coaches at Peak Performance Sports. If you want more information about our one-on-one mental coaching via FaceTime or Zoom, check out peaksports.com. Thanks.