 can one mistake or one bad throw or one bad play rock your confidence? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn with Brock McCormack. Today, we're going to talk about the difference between having stable versus fragile confidence for ball players. You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. Yeah, one of the biggest problems with the YIPS is confidence can fade really quickly. Confidence in sports tends to be very fragile, especially after mistakes. Really with the YIPS, what happens is when you're focusing on failure and only looking at the bad throws that you make, you're going to exaggerate that and start to think that you don't make any good throws. Another issue and confidence killer is that when you find yourself comparing where you're at with where your teammates are at in terms of throwing. So we know based upon, you know, 30 years of working with athletes that confidence in general tends to be fragile for athletes. It doesn't make sense that you've executed thousands of plays literally or thousands of throws, and you have one or two bad plays or bad throws, and you're going to throw years of confidence building out the window. We call that fragile confidence. I'm only as good as my last play. I'm only as good as my last throw, which we think is really irrational based upon the number of successful throws and plays you've made over the years. Yeah, when I when I break it down with my athletes, I always say there's kind of two buckets of information that we can go to. The first bucket is really small and that comes from the hundred throws you made today in practice. And then the second bucket is the 100,000 throws that you've made in your life. And I asked them the simple question, where would you rather draw from to build your confidence? Well, that just gives a bigger picture idea that you know how to do this, right? So it's rebuilding the belief that I still know how to throw a baseball. I just need to build up the confidence and the trust to be able to unlock it again. You know, I always like to tell ball players, we're looking for nine out of 10. We're not looking for 10 out of 10. Let's not have that expectation that every single throw, every single play has to be there for you. Give yourself a little wiggle room. You can make that occasional suspect or marginal throw and you can still say face and maintain your confidence because eight out of 10 or nine out of 10 are still good throws. And you absolutely want to focus on those. So let's not panic and throw away the baby with the bathwater, they say, if you have one bad throw. Yeah, I mean, this entire process of coming back from the YIPS is all about reframing failure as a learning opportunity. If you're taking failure and turning it into your identity and saying, I'm a failure now as a baseball player, it's going to be a lot harder to recover from that. So it's separating your confidence with one practice or one throw. Also, it's really trying to avoid comparing where you're at to where you used to be in the past. When you look into the past and think, oh, I used to be able to throw so well and I can't anymore, it's going to be hard to rebuild any confidence in yourself. So I always like to say to my athletes, we're creating a new normal, a new normal. It's not what you felt last year. This is new. It might be a little bit uncomfortable right now, but we got to create a new path forward and work with whatever we have right now because we can't get back the past. We got to deal with the hand we've been dealt. So what do you think is the best way to get players focusing more on success and what they're doing well on the field? Well, one of the best ways that I like to relive those good throws and good moments is if you have footage of yourself playing, could be an awesome way to look back at a highlight reel of you pitching really well, tricking your brain into believing that, hey, that's me. I've done it before. I know I can do it again. So could be watching highlight tapes, could be if you don't have those just sitting down and visualizing yourself making good throws as well. We know that the brain doesn't understand the difference between real and imagined experiences. So visualization is sneakily going to be one of the most powerful tools in this process to rebuild that trust, belief and confidence in the brain. And how does that visualization process work? Is that just before practice at home, before the game, just going through a few reps? Yeah, as regularly as possible. The more time you want to commit to it, the more you're going to get out of it. So if you can try to visualize when you wake up, when you go to bed, three to five minutes, five to 10 minutes, whatever you're comfortable with, keep it short, keep it deliberate. Nobody wants to sit down and visualize for 45 minutes. So keep it quick. So your attention is at its highest focus so that you can bring those pictures to life in your head. Great. I've been speaking with Brock McCormack, one of our mental coaches at Peak Performance Sports, specializing in the Yips for ball players and also for golfers as well. Brock, thanks for joining me. If you want more information, jump over to baseball-yips.com and you could read some more articles about this phenomenon. Or if you're interested in the coaching, jump over to peaksports.com and contact us. Thank you.