Hi, do you have an athlete that's struggling with her skills but refuses to focus on positive thinking? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn, in this video I'm going to talk about why positive thinking isn't going to get your athletes anywhere and in reality what you want your athletes to do is to be confident, focused, and composed. I'm continuing my series on mental toughness in sports, you're watching sessions with Doc. Here's the question that I received from Sarah who is a sports parent. She said "My daughter is 10 years old and competing in a level four gymnasts starting in January. She has all the skills and then all of the sudden lost her round off. We are trying to help her to focus on positive thinking but she keeps saying that nothing will help. How could she be more mentally tough and work through this?" Sarah it's a good question what's going on with her right now is she has a mental block in gymnastics. If she had her round off and now she's simply lost her round off most likely it's a trust issue or a confidence issue so no amount of positive thinking is going to help what does that mean we don't really know what positive thinking means. I think you want to tell athletes oh you want to think positively but athletes don't know what that means. So what you need to do in this instance is you need to find out and dig in well what's changed all the sudden in her round-off is there more fear now that she's gonna have a problem on the beam for example or on the parallel bars what's different for her when she's doing the round off and does she simply balk and not attempt the round-off often it's about fear for athletes and not being able to commit In this situation. So instead of talking about positive thinking you have to talk about what gives you the confidence that you can execute that round-off? Give them some valid evidence that they have the skills to do that round-off. Then from that point you have to take it to the next level and you have to talk about trusting her skills if she's balking and she's not doing that skill then obviously she doesn't have full trust in what she practices, so maybe she's able to do it with a spot but obviously that's not gonna help her in competition you want to be able to have do that round-off. So sometimes giving them a mental choreography by simplifying that skill for them can be very valuable. In other words maybe a it's just something like look, visualize, go, trust - something very simple that she can lock her mind into now that's a lot more specific than just asking her to think positive. Remember, think positive doesn't work with athletes because they don't know what to think. You really want them to be confident understand why they deserve to be confident you want them to trust in their skills and get them to understand what allows them to trust in their skills that's just looking and going basically if I was to simplify that skill and in addition you want her to fully commit to doing that round-off when athletes aren't fully committed and their indecisive than they're not going to have the mental toughness to complete that particular skill. Thanks for your question and good luck with your daughter's gymnastics. Hey, if you want more videos please subscribe and we'll notify you when more videos are posted in this series and also there's another video over here you can check out that's related to this series on mental toughness in sports. Thanks you've been watching sessions with Doc.