 What makes someone clutch in the fourth period of the game where others tend to choke? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn with Caroline Lolley. We're going to give you some tips on how to perform your best coming down the stretch of the game. You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. Caroline, let's start from the perspective of what causes ball players to choke in those important moments of the game and really not perform up to their capability. Yeah, I think the number one thing is focusing on the outcome. Generally, we think of clutch players as being able to finish and perform in really high pressure close games. And I think the focus on outcome versus in the moment what you need to be doing to execute is really what leads to that breakdown and not being a clutch player. And what's so awful about focusing on the outcome? Don't you want to win the game? I mean, shouldn't you be focused on winning the game and knocking down shots and making good plays? Is there a danger with focusing on the outcome? Yes, you want to win the game, obviously. That's the point when you're playing, right? But you also want to be a present moment focused athlete because the moment when your focus starts to switch over to the outcome, which is something that you really can't control in that moment, that's when that anxiety, nervousness may take over and you're not able to know what you need to do in the moment, execute. Whether that's drive in for a layup and finish through contact or hit a game winning shot, you're more focused on trying to get to a certain outcome rather than what you need to do in the moment. When you were playing, were there times when you got nervous at the end of the game and then the question really is how does that change your performance when you're a little nervous about the outcome? Absolutely. That happened to me more than I'd like to admit, but the way that it would change my performance, I would play back on my heels. I would pass up some open shots or be less aggressive generally because I was worried about failing. I was worried about missing and that being on me essentially. Yeah, do you think a lot of that is about letting down the team or letting down coach, for example, what I call the aftermath of missing a shot or missing a pass? Absolutely. I think that's where a lot of pressure can come from in those situations, not wanting to disappoint coach, not wanting to disappoint parents in the stands and especially not their teammates, but putting that pressure on themselves to not miss versus to go out there and do the best that you can. I think is that shift in intention that happens. How do players learn that skill? I mean, where does that come from where they're just locked in, they're dialed in, they're really not thinking about the outcome and they can perform their best. What type of player gets there? I think the present moment focused athlete is always going to have a better outcome than the one that's worried about what's what's going to happen at the end of the game or the scoreboard at the end of the game. And that's because being able to focus on the small things that you need to do in every moment to execute, it's going to get you a lot further. And it's going to allow you to do the best you can in that moment and not be worried about the outcome. Okay, so let's break that down. For example, what is the present moment? How do athletes in that last two minutes of the game, you have a tied game or very close game, how do they stay in the present? What does that mean? Yeah, so focusing on the small things that you need to do. So let's say driving in for a layup and finishing their contact, instead of worrying about making the shot, focus on the small things you need to do, getting a quick first step, or getting an elbow out so that you can finish past your defender will help you stay more present focused rather than just a better make this shot or else. Yeah, does the crowd have any impact, do you think, or opponents or the bench? Does that have any impact on what's going on within the player's mind that last two minutes? Yeah, the crowd is a big contributor to some pressure. So being able to block that out and again, focus on what you're doing rather than the outcome or what other people may think after the game is going to be crucial in being a clutch player. Yeah, and when I think about clutch, I also think about trusting in your skills in crunch time rather than being tentative, being indecisive, for example, not wanting to shoot, wanting to pass the ball, but really trusting in your skills like someone like Caitlin Clark, who can really, you know, at the end of the game, give me the ball. I want the ball, right? I want to be the one that makes the difference. So how do we get players in that mindset that they're going to trust in their skills rather than maybe start to overthink what they're doing out there and just continue to play athletically? I think not putting so much emphasis on what it means if the outcome isn't what you want it to be. Again, focusing on the here and now, allowing yourself to understand that whether or not you win the game, whether or not you make a mistake, being decisive in what you're doing is going to lead to trusting in your skills, is going to lead often to a better outcome than hesitation or second guessing a shot. Okay, so in those closing moments to be a clutch player, number one, you got to be in the moment and really just focusing on execution. You got to let go of the aftermath and the outcome, certainly, or worrying about what others think. You got to be fully focused on the court and not what's going on around the court. And you have to fully trust in your abilities and be athletic with what you're doing, be decisive and athletic. What are some other mindsets that are going to help ball players in crunch time? Number one, being aggressive, going after the ball, not being hesitant in your decision making with your shots, your passing. Decide on what you're going to do and whether or not that's the right decision. Make that decision in the moment and be confident in what you're doing. Great. I've been talking with Carolyn Lolley of Peak Performance Sports, one of our mental performance coaches. It happens to specialize in basketball. If you're interested in mental coaching, jump over to peaksports.com and contact us. Thanks.