 Are you trying so many different things on the baseball field that you're actually making your throwing worse? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn with Brock McCormack. Today, we're going to talk about players that focus on too much information and ultimately make their throwing worse. You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. Yeah, one of the biggest issues with the YIPS is overcoaching and overanalyzing and really trying to just do too much to overcome it all at once. With baseball and softball right now, the mechanics-based focus and filming mechanics and really breaking things down from a biomechanical perspective is all great, but when it comes to the YIPS, we want to kind of put all of that on the back burner. You don't want to spend more time breaking down your mechanics just because you have the YIPS. You actually kind of want to do the opposite. You really want to try to get back to that backyard wiffleball mindset is what I like to call it is. Think about just like playing catch in the backyard when you were younger. That's the kind of level of focus we want to get to. We don't need to think about how to get the ball there. You just looked at the glove and you made it happen. That sounds hard to do at first, but that's what we're trying to work towards. Yeah, I think Ken Revisah used to call that caveman pitching. Was that his thing? Like caveman pitching is you're just mindless. You're just brainless, but it's not always a mindless task. Like you want to take your mind out of the overthinking of the mechanics, over trying different things, going to sidearm, changing your slot, changing how far back you take it. None of that is really helpful when it comes to the YIPS and it causes you to get into more overthinking. So for us, from our perspective, it's really less thinking is better. However, it's not no thinking as the caveman approach would have you think. I like my ball players Brock to have one thing that they're focusing on that will help them get out of that hyper focus on what their arm is doing in space. The hyper focus is just that how far back should I take it? Where's my arm slot? What's my release? What's my release should be? And they're really grinding on the minute details of it and maybe even changing their mechanics in the process of that. We want ball players to get away from that learning, that training, that practice mindset and get back into the caveman mindset, but at the same time have one cue that they're focusing on. Yes, absolutely. And you may be used to mechanical based cues. Let's switch those to more feel based cues or external cues like, hey, eyes to target, stay connected, trust it, trust and react, let it happen. Another good little tip for you to try out is try to get into that competition mindset. When you're stuck in the training mindset, it's going to be easy to stay in this Yip cycle of over analysis. Use some fun low stakes reps or challenges or competitions like, how many throws out of 10 can I get into the small target that I'm throwing into? That helps you get into more of that athletic trusting and more natural throw instead of feeling like you're a scientist and breaking things down too much. Yeah, an interesting phenomenon I find with catchers Brock is they can throw down to second perfectly, but they struggle throwing back to the pitcher. That just does it's just not rational to me. But if you break it down, what's the difference when they're throwing back to the catcher, they're trying to increase their pop time, they're trying to go really quick. And when they're trying to go really quick, they don't have that time to overthink what they're doing with their arm, right? As opposed to when they're throwing back to the pitcher, they have a lot of time to break it down, think about their release and their slot and all the mechanical things that they think is trying to make a good throw and even changing their mechanics to the point where they go to that safe throw as well. So I think there's something to be learned there. Most of the catchers can throw to bases relatively with ease. But then when they make that short throw back to the pitcher, they struggle with that. That's a tough one. And this is why the Yips really doesn't make sense, because the easiest throw back to the pitcher seems to become the hardest, but you'd think the hardest throw to second base now becomes easy, just like Dr. Cohn said, because it's reactionary. When you're throwing to second, you have to react. It's boom, boom. When you're throwing back to the pitcher, you're allowed to take more time. Well, that time between you catching the ball and throwing it back to the pitcher is where those negative and unproductive thoughts pop in. So if you're really in the heart of the Yips and struggling with your throws back to the pitcher, for example, I really like to urge my catchers to just try to get rid of the ball as quickly as possible. It doesn't mean you're going to do that for the rest of your career, but we want to rebuild the more reactionary, which is catch and throw, catch and throw. Instead of catch, pause, think, analyze, throw, let's rebuild the trust by just going bang, bang, catch, throw, catch, throw. Yeah. And it could be catch, stand, throw, or it could be catch, step, throw, or could have another one in there, something that's a mantra in essence that they're repeating themselves that locks their conscious mind into that mantra so that they can allow their arm to throw naturally. Yeah. And you can even get even more simple with it. I've actually had athletes that use a one, two, three mantra, which is, you know, the catch, step, throw, you just turn that into a one, two, three, and in your head, you count one, two, three, and it keeps you in tempo. Brock, what's the concept of using variable practice for ball players? Yeah, variable practice. So first we got to understand the opposite of that, which is constant practice, which is grabbing a baseball and throwing from the same distance 50 times. So you step on the line and you're throwing from 60 feet the entire time. Well, that's just going to keep you stuck in the same cycle if you continue to do the same thing. So variable practice is mixing it up, throwing from different distances, different arm slots, throwing into different targets, finding ways to mix your throwing up to essentially mix your brain up a little bit, confuse the brain back into realizing you know how to throw. Great. Love the tips. I've been talking with Brock McCormack, one of our mental coaches at Peak Performance Sports, specializing in baseball and golf and other sports as well, and works with most of our YIPS players. Brock, thanks for joining me. If you want more information, jump over to baseball-YIPS.com for more articles and tips there. Or if you're interested in the coaching, you can jump over to peaksports.com and contact us there. Thanks for watching.