How do you get into a shooting slump? We're going to break that down and give you some tips for getting beyond a shooting slump. Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Con. I'm with Caroline Loi and we're starting a new series for basketball players and unique challenges for basketball players and how to get beyond those challenges by using your mind. You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. So Carolyn, let's start from the perspective of where do shooting slumps start? What's the trigger? >> Yeah, I think the the trigger is they'll start to miss a shot or they'll miss a maybe a big big shot in a game and then it goes down from there and a spiral starts to occur. >> Does it have to be a big shot? I I would assume that it could be just missing a couple shots and leading to overthinking in the game and then that kind of continues in the next game like so I don't think it has to be just missing important shot I think it could be just missing right >> yeah definitely missing in general consecutive misses especially for someone who feels that their role on the team is to be a shooter can cause a lot of that um fragile confidence a lack of confidence to start to start coming in and that overthinking process for sure. >> What's the thought process that ball players go through when they've missed a few shots and they start to think they're in this shooting slump or whatever? What do they go through? What are the mental gymnastics? >> Yeah, generally I would say there's an initial couple of shots are missed and then some generalizations start happening like I have missed this shot before. Say it was at the top of the key. Um you miss consecutive shots at the top of the key. Then maybe on that third or fourth shot, the belief is that I'm probably going to miss this shot again instead of going in the shot with confidence, trusting in their skills and and things like that. So I think that's where the breakdown begins to happen. >> Okay. Um so it could be a similar situation where they're missing as well and then they start to think that they've lost their shot, like their shot is gone, like technically or mechanically there's something wrong. >> Absolutely. And I think there is tends to be an overanalysis of of the shot. What am I doing wrong? Do I need to correct or adjust my shot and as we know doing that in game is going to lead to a lack of trust in your abilities? And it's going to cause you to be focused on the technical things versus the things that you should be focused on in the game. So definitely some overanalysis going on for sure. I would think a lot of it is overthinking or as we call it overanalysis leading to paralysis where ball players might go to their technique or mechanics or start to really overthink what their elbow's doing and what their hand is doing and that could lead down the wrong direction I believe. >> Yeah. And I often hear from the athletes that I've worked with that the spin on the ball wasn't correct or their elbow was too far out. So then their time and energy and focus is spent on trying to correct that in game instead of trying to score or figure out another way that they can be effective on the court. >> What's the inherent problem when they're starting to define it as I'm in a shooting slump, for example? Yeah, I was like going back to that generalization of if I missed this before that means I'm going to miss it again instead of giving themsself a chance to kind of an open chance 50/50, right? You usually go into a game wondering if not wondering but giving yourself a clean slate. Whereas when you start to miss it feels like the odds are now stacked against you and it's no longer kind of A-50/50 if it's going to go in or not. little bit of a here I go again process. >> Exactly. Yes. >> Yeah. So, where do we need to go? I I think one of the first places we have to talk about is not looking at it as this overgeneralization, as labeling it as I'm in a slump, for example. I think that's what keeps players stuck somewhat. And that the idea that really nothing is broken at all, right? Like player thinks that something's broken with their shot, that's not going to lead to anything good. Let's start from the perspective that we don't want players to think that something's broken with their shot. Like there's nothing broken at all, but it gets into your mind that I've just lost my shot and nothing's lost. Nothing's broken. >> A lot of the time athletes feel that they need to be perfect, especially if they feel that their role is a shooter on the team. But if you if you look at the best players, the best shooters in the league, Caitlyn Clark, Steph Curry, if you look at their percentages, they're going to miss. And so having a mindset of it's okay to miss and expecting that there are going to be some misses and not letting that completely destroy your confidence or lead to an overgeneralization that you're just not a good shooter anymore. >> When do you need to go to the mechanics? And it is a mechanical issue, right? and you maybe need to practice some things with coach or when is it just mental and which one are we talking about? >> I'd say if there is a very clear mechanical issue then save that for practice. Talk with your coach, figure out what the issue is, but ingame is not where you need to make those corrections. Again, we've we talk a lot about a performance mindset versus a practice mindset. So, your performance mindset should be focused on the present moment and not on trying to correct any technicalities. Um, so if there is an issue, of course, talk with your coach, figure that out and do that in practice. But once you get out on the court for a competition, for a game, you need to trust in the skills that you've been working on and practicing. >> So, let's say I'm trying to get out of this so-called slump. As I said, we don't want players to identify it as a slump because that will keep you stuck. But what are some good tips that you can give ball players that will help them move away from the slump thinking and into the making thinking? >> I'd say the first tip I have is to switch the mindset of a couple missed shots equals I'm a bad shooter or there's something wrong with my shot and shift that mindset to I may have missed a couple of shots, but I am I'm still a good shooter. Everyone misses shots. That's normal in the game of basketball. and focusing on having a shooters mentality, which we know is to continue to shoot and having a short memory, focusing on the next play, whether that's on defense, whether that's on your next shot. So, keeping a more of a um positive mindset going into the next play rather than dwelling on the mistake or the missed shot. >> Yeah. And I would add to that as well that you want to be in a mindset where you have a positive intention with the ball. Certainly being decisive is extremely important when you're ready to take a shot, but beyond taking it being decisive, you want to be able to see a good shot. You want to be able to see the ball going in if you have that ability. You want to feel the ball going in if you have that ability. Just one positive intention that you're focused on rather than don't miss, don't screw up, I don't want to get pulled from the game. >> Yeah. And a lot of the time that's the mindset that happens when shooters are in a slump. It's the hesitation, the fear of missing another shot because they don't want that to mean that they are a bad shooter, right? And so I completely agree with the positive intention going into every shot. And that's that's the shooter's mentality, believing that the next shot is always going to be a shot that goes in. >> Okay, great. I've been talking with Carolyn Lai, uh, one of our mental performance coaches that specializes in basketball and other sports at Peak Performance Sports. If you want more information about the coaching, jump over to peakports.com where we do one-on-one mental performance coaching with athletes via FaceTime or Zoom in this type of an environment and we find it's very effective for our athletes. So, or you can call us at 407-91700. Thanks for joining me. Thank you.