 Do you get confused about what to think about in order to make a good throw on the field? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Hohn with Brock McCormack. Here we're going to talk about how to use different images that may help improve your consistency when you're throwing in games and in practice situations as well. You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. So Brock, we've talked quite a bit in this series about ball players that tend to focus too much on their mechanics. They tend to focus too much on their arm slot, what their release is doing, maybe changing their mechanics because the throwing goes off. And that's typical, obviously, when coaches say, hey, try this, your arm slot is too high, your arm slot is too low, like, and then they start really overthinking the process. You and I, we're all about simplifying, as we've talked about in the series. And one of the ways to do that is to help your ball players tap into one image, one simple image that helps them free it up. Yeah, the biggest step in that process is finding what your preference is, finding which images or strategies that your brain processes the best to kind of bring that throw to life. Dr. Cohen, can you break down some of the most popular or well found strategies or types of images that Yip's athletes have benefited from in your work? Yes, definitely. But I want to preface that and say that not everybody's a visual performer, not everybody sees targets or sees trajectories. So but that's my preferred route to start with to help ball players free it up is I want them to see the trajectory of that shot. Instead of seeing the safe throw, go high up through the air to the pitcher, I want them to see it like on a line that in and of itself that one image is really telling the ball player or telling the person that you know what, this is the line I need to throw it on or just seeing a target, seeing the chest of the pitcher if it's a catcher throwing back to the pitcher. So if you're dealing with a visual learner and performer, that's one of my go to strategies. If it's more kinesthetic or more feel oriented, then you have to go to something totally different where that athlete doesn't have the ability to see a visual image. They can certainly watch the chest of the pitcher, of course, but they can't create a trajectory that they can see in their mind like a string going directly to the pitcher's glove. So in that case, you want to go to something more like freedom or tempo or something that is going to be very simple and very broad that will help cue them to make a free throw. And I do like the term effortless as well. I don't know if it's really auditory from that perspective. I don't talk a lot about the auditory, but it can be tactile for ball players. What do you find, bro? Yeah, I mean, I would say the visual and feel based are certainly the two most beneficial. I really like to give a little preface a little tip here is I like to call it the three T's when thinking about process cues with the athletes that I work with is target tempo trust, right? And that ties in both of those. The target is the external focus. It's more visual based. The tempo is the feel based cue. And then the trust is, Hey, at the end of the day, we got to focus on being athletic, letting the throw happen. So the three T's target tempo trust, that really resonates with a lot of athletes because it incorporates all of those different strategies into one simple mantra. Yeah. And I know with pitchers I've worked with, they like the feeling of whippy, getting whippy with their throw helps them free it up as well or grip it and rip it a more feel oriented cue for them where they're just ripping it. And that's where you want to be when a catcher is ripping it down the second base, they're making a good throw, even if they have the so called YIPS. However, they're not ripping it back to the pitcher because they're afraid of giving up a base or they're afraid of looking silly. So I've got a question for you. One of the biggest things that athletes come to me with when they have the YIPS is I can't get these negative pictures out of my head. Like I close my eyes and all I can see are the bad throws. How can we help them try to start envisioning the good throws again? Yeah, good point. So you want to rewind the tape, obviously rewind the video and go back to an earlier stage and maybe break it down into segments. Those segments could be just that first part of feeling like your arm is free, like it's moving through space freely and it's not obstructed. So it could be that simple instead of having to visualize or see the entire trajectory of the pitch. It could be much more simple than that. Yeah, and really the biggest thing in understanding why those negative images pop up is when stuck in the YIPS cycle, your brain is in defense mode. And the main job that your brain is trying to accomplish is to protect you from making another one of those bad throws. Unfortunately, our brain does that in the way of showing us a picture of what it doesn't want to happen. So that's not really going to help us get out of the cycle because then we're running from what we don't want to happen. So I always like to tell my athletes you're not going to be able to get rid of the negative images, but we have to override them with the positive ones again, because if we don't, those are going to continue to pop up. Great tip. So bottom line, the lesson for today is play around with some different images, call it imagery, call it images, call it feelings, cues, throwing cues that is going to help you personally free it up. I've been talking with Brock McCormick. I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn with Peak Performance Sports. If you're interested in the one-on-one coaching, jump over to peaksports.com and contact us. Thanks for watching.