 are you playing too slow because you're overthinking on the field? Hi, I'm Patrick Cohn with Jaclyn Ellis. Today, we're going to talk about how to simplify your performance so that you don't allow overthinking to get in the way. You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. Jaclyn, one of the biggest challenges for our athletes is overthinking, and we really need to put our finger on that first, I think, because there's many different levels of overthinking. What is one of the most common ways your athletes are overthinking on the field? Yes, great question, Dr. Cohn. One of the major things that I've seen where athletes are overthinking is they are overthinking their decision-making. Usually, in the first couple of sessions, I understand that the athlete is overthinking, and I'll ask, are you overthinking your decisions or your mechanics? Most of the time, it's their decisions that they're unsure about. So when they're overthinking their decisions, we typically see two different challenges. One is they get caught between two decisions. Should I dribble around this opponent or should I pass the ball? It's 50-50 in their mind. They don't know what the best play is. The other form of challenges with decisions we call indecision is second guessing. I can just tap it around and dribble around this player and beat them or beat her, and then, well, wait a second, there must be a better option. There could be a more perfect play. So we see that in form of the indecision as well. What other forms of overthinking do we see? They could be overthinking their role on the field or they're in their position. Is this what I'm supposed to be doing right now or is this where I'm supposed to be? And they might even start worrying about what the coach thinks at that point. So the overthinking is starting to impact or create other mental game challenges. Especially if you're asked to play a new position. If you were an attack and then you were asked to play midfield, like that's totally new and you're going to have some challenges with overthinking. Am I in the right spot right now? Are we in shape? Where am I supposed to be? What's my role? So that's a big challenge for them as well. I think maybe a third category is just overthinking skills, overthinking technique. Yeah, do you see that? I do. And I'll never forget this. I had an athlete a few years back who was a high level athlete. He was in high school and he said, Coach Jaclyn, I am overthinking my feet. I don't know which foot I should receive the ball with, my right foot or my left foot, in a lot of situations. And so we had to break that down. And I asked him, well, where do you think this overthinking is coming from? Where is this lack of commitment or the lack of trust in that moment? And then we started talking, breaking it down and talking about solutions of where to go when that happens, what to do. Yes, athletes, if you're overthinking your footwork out there, you are not playing in the flow. You are not letting it happen. You want to save that for practice and not be focusing on what your feet are doing. You need to be more athletic when you're on the pitch so that you can get into the flow of the game easily. So let's talk about some more solutions for athletes that tend to overthink. Where do we need to start that process with? What are we going to focus on? Yes, so a lot of times, as we've mentioned, the overthinking is, they're unsure, they're hesitating. I like to try to get the athlete to understand where that lack of commitment is coming from. You mentioned it earlier, Dr. Cohen. Are they trying to be too perfect with it? We can start to attack that. Or is it about something else? Do they think there is a better solution or a better decision in that moment? Maybe they think, well, I can see the goal, but maybe my teammate has a better look at the goal. So I think I should pass to them instead of taking the shot. So getting to understand where is that lack of commitment coming from? And then we want to try to simplify things as much as possible for the athlete. Yeah, one of my models, especially when working in the area of soccer, is that there's no perfect play. There's only the decisive play. And that really resonates with them. That could be the simple play that's in front of them, but it's just the play that comes to your first instinct. That's the decisive play and sticking with it and not second guessing and questioning every move you're doing out there. Yes, I completely agree. And going back to my athlete from a few years back, who didn't know which foot to receive the ball with, trying to simplify that for him and getting him to understand that, hey, go with your first instinct, it's already there. Your body knows what to do. Yes, absolutely critical. Save the practice for practice. You really want to be more an intuitive, just let it happen into a free state reacting to what you see, reacting to what you're feeling. That's ultimately going to help you simplify your skills as well. So what's the simplest we can keep it for your athletes? So the simplest way to approach game time is by going with that first instinct. So for example, if you think that you have a shot on goal, you see the target, you hit that target, you do not need to overthink it or second guess it. Again, your body already knows what to do. See the target, hit the target, come up with a phrase that you can repeat to yourself in those moments. I have a move in mind that I want to use on this one V one. Let's use the move. I see the pass. Let's make the pass. Yeah, it could be as simple as just looking from ball to foot, ball to area. And that's all your information really that your body needs to perform. Doesn't have to be complex. I've been talking with Jacqueline Ellis, mental performance coach at Peak Performance Sports. If you want more information about programs or products, we do have Soccer Confidence 2.0, which we recently revised. It's a great audio and workbook program, or we do the one on one coaching. You can check those out at peaksports.com. Thanks.