

=== FILE: How Do I Be Clutch in Big Moments？ ｜ Basketball Mental Game Tips [NCkuAPR_rP4].txt ===

 What makes someone clutch in the fourth period of the game where others tend to choke? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn with Caroline Lolley. We're going to give you some tips on how to perform your best coming down the stretch of the game. You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. Caroline, let's start from the perspective of what causes ball players to choke in those important moments of the game and really not perform up to their capability. Yeah, I think the number one thing is focusing on the outcome. Generally, we think of clutch players as being able to finish and perform in really high pressure close games. And I think the focus on outcome versus in the moment what you need to be doing to execute is really what leads to that breakdown and not being a clutch player. And what's so awful about focusing on the outcome? Don't you want to win the game? I mean, shouldn't you be focused on winning the game and knocking down shots and making good plays? Is there a danger with focusing on the outcome? Yes, you want to win the game, obviously. That's the point when you're playing, right? But you also want to be a present moment focused athlete because the moment when your focus starts to switch over to the outcome, which is something that you really can't control in that moment, that's when that anxiety, nervousness may take over and you're not able to know what you need to do in the moment, execute. Whether that's drive in for a layup and finish through contact or hit a game winning shot, you're more focused on trying to get to a certain outcome rather than what you need to do in the moment. When you were playing, were there times when you got nervous at the end of the game and then the question really is how does that change your performance when you're a little nervous about the outcome? Absolutely. That happened to me more than I'd like to admit, but the way that it would change my performance, I would play back on my heels. I would pass up some open shots or be less aggressive generally because I was worried about failing. I was worried about missing and that being on me essentially. Yeah, do you think a lot of that is about letting down the team or letting down coach, for example, what I call the aftermath of missing a shot or missing a pass? Absolutely. I think that's where a lot of pressure can come from in those situations, not wanting to disappoint coach, not wanting to disappoint parents in the stands and especially not their teammates, but putting that pressure on themselves to not miss versus to go out there and do the best that you can. I think is that shift in intention that happens. How do players learn that skill? I mean, where does that come from where they're just locked in, they're dialed in, they're really not thinking about the outcome and they can perform their best. What type of player gets there? I think the present moment focused athlete is always going to have a better outcome than the one that's worried about what's what's going to happen at the end of the game or the scoreboard at the end of the game. And that's because being able to focus on the small things that you need to do in every moment to execute, it's going to get you a lot further. And it's going to allow you to do the best you can in that moment and not be worried about the outcome. Okay, so let's break that down. For example, what is the present moment? How do athletes in that last two minutes of the game, you have a tied game or very close game, how do they stay in the present? What does that mean? Yeah, so focusing on the small things that you need to do. So let's say driving in for a layup and finishing their contact, instead of worrying about making the shot, focus on the small things you need to do, getting a quick first step, or getting an elbow out so that you can finish past your defender will help you stay more present focused rather than just a better make this shot or else. Yeah, does the crowd have any impact, do you think, or opponents or the bench? Does that have any impact on what's going on within the player's mind that last two minutes? Yeah, the crowd is a big contributor to some pressure. So being able to block that out and again, focus on what you're doing rather than the outcome or what other people may think after the game is going to be crucial in being a clutch player. Yeah, and when I think about clutch, I also think about trusting in your skills in crunch time rather than being tentative, being indecisive, for example, not wanting to shoot, wanting to pass the ball, but really trusting in your skills like someone like Caitlin Clark, who can really, you know, at the end of the game, give me the ball. I want the ball, right? I want to be the one that makes the difference. So how do we get players in that mindset that they're going to trust in their skills rather than maybe start to overthink what they're doing out there and just continue to play athletically? I think not putting so much emphasis on what it means if the outcome isn't what you want it to be. Again, focusing on the here and now, allowing yourself to understand that whether or not you win the game, whether or not you make a mistake, being decisive in what you're doing is going to lead to trusting in your skills, is going to lead often to a better outcome than hesitation or second guessing a shot. Okay, so in those closing moments to be a clutch player, number one, you got to be in the moment and really just focusing on execution. You got to let go of the aftermath and the outcome, certainly, or worrying about what others think. You got to be fully focused on the court and not what's going on around the court. And you have to fully trust in your abilities and be athletic with what you're doing, be decisive and athletic. What are some other mindsets that are going to help ball players in crunch time? Number one, being aggressive, going after the ball, not being hesitant in your decision making with your shots, your passing. Decide on what you're going to do and whether or not that's the right decision. Make that decision in the moment and be confident in what you're doing. Great. I've been talking with Carolyn Lolley of Peak Performance Sports, one of our mental performance coaches. It happens to specialize in basketball. If you're interested in mental coaching, jump over to peaksports.com and contact us. Thanks.

=== FILE: How Do I Manage Pre-Game Nerves？ ｜ Basketball Mental Game Tips [7pPFxMKtnCM].txt ===

 Are you so nervous before the game that you feel like your stomach is churning and almost like you want to throw up? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Combe with Carolyn Lawley. We're going to talk about how to calm your nerves before the game so you can go in and have a good start. You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. Carolyn, one of the biggest issues we deal with are ball players that tend to get really nervous and anxious before they play. And one of the things where we like to start is to talk about the difference between pre-game jitters, which most athletes get, and also performance anxiety. We put those in two totally different categories. Can you talk a little bit about that? I think the number one thing that distinguishes the two is does it last into the game or does it go away? So pre-game jitters, those are going to be before the game, and then once that ball goes up in the air, the tip goes up, generally those kind of subside. Whereas pre-performance anxiety, a lot of the times that's going to last throughout the whole game and cause you to play tentatively, cause you to play back on your heels, things like that. But break it down for me. What am I feeling and thinking with pre-game jitters? And then what am I thinking and feeling with performance anxiety? How can I identify the difference as a ball player? Yeah, so the pre-game jitters, that's that nervous energy, feeling kind of antsy, ready to go, pumped up, things like that. It's kind of just preparing you for the start of the game. Whereas if you look at the pre-performance anxiety, a lot of the times that's going to be a pit in your stomach, you're shaky, not feeling great. And when that tip goes up, you feel sometimes a lack of control of your body, of your limbs, things like that. And that nervousness just kind of heightens, it doesn't subside. And I think with performance anxiety, you have a lot more worry, apprehension, concern, maybe anxiety. So I feel like it's more in your head where you're really worrying about your performance, you're worrying about the outcome, you're worrying about how well you stack up with your opponent, who you're guarding, for example. Whereas, as you said, the jitters are more about just feeling excited and pumped up and juiced. Absolutely. I think the core of performance anxiety is fear of failure. So worrying about potentially the outcome, worrying about what others may think of you, feeling like you have to perform a certain way or this or that is going to happen. Whereas pre-game jitters are preparation, nerves, and getting you amped up to play. There's not usually a lot of self-doubt or lack of confidence that goes with that. So the first thing that we want to do with players is we want to make sure it's not just garden variety pre-game jitters. In other words, we don't want them to term pre-game jitters into anxiety, which happens with a subset of players. They feel their heart rate, respiration, sweaty palms, and now they're worried that they have anxiety. So the first place we start is, hey, let's embrace those feelings as a challenge. This is fun. This is why I play. So that's the first step that we want to take with helping with the pre-game anxiety, because it might not be pre-game anxiety. You just might be interpreting the jitters the wrong way. So that's a more simple solution, but let's say they do have pre-game anxiety, worry, performance anxiety, if you will. Then what approach do we need to take there? Yeah, I think the first step is identifying what are you worried about? What is the fear behind that pre-performance anxiety? So once you can identify that, then you can kind of start working backwards and understanding what's causing you to feel this, that anxiety, and then go from there. I think the underlying fear is absolutely critical. And what do you think some of those underlying fears are that cause players to be anxious before the game? I think fear of failure in general, so just worry that they're not going to perform well. Another one can be fear of disappointing others, so maybe parents or coaches or anyone that's watching. I think that's a common one. So playing time, fear of getting benched, getting embarrassed, I think as well. Fear of not reaching your expectations or others' expectations. Like, I've got to get 10, 12 points today, like others expect me to, my parents expect me to. So I think a lot of this goes back to the expectations that athletes put on themselves that create some of that fear. What about if I disappoint others? What about if I disappoint a parent? So what's the best way we can get athletes beyond that issue of they're just really concerned with reaching others' expectations and not disappointing a coach or teammates or parents? Yeah, I mean, I think breaking it down a little bit. So what's the worry if you do disappoint them? Maybe if it's something where you're worried about disappointing your parents, go and have a conversation. A lot of athletes will kind of contribute to that mind reading where they believe that their parents are going to be disappointed, but that's maybe never something that they've actually expressed to them. So breaking that down a little bit, using those rationalization skills to understand that maybe what we fear is going to happen actually won't happen. Do athletes need to do anything different in a big game? Like if they have some of those pregame worries, pregame anxiety, because it's a big game, how would you want them to approach it differently, if at all? I think keeping the same level of intensity, the same preparation is going to be important no matter if the game is a big game or just a regular game. So I think not placing a whole lot of emphasis on these bigger games is important because just because it's a bigger game doesn't necessarily mean that anything needs to change. It just means that your preparation, you need to trust in your preparation even more, essentially. Same ball, same size court. Exactly. Right? Same size rim, same skills, nothing's changed. It's just the perception of that game and the importance of that game changes, which can ultimately change your thinking and thus your performance. Great. I've been talking with Carolyn Lolley of Peak Performance Sports. If you want more information about mental performance coaching, jump over to peaksports.com. That's Peak Performance Sports and we do mental training, mental performance coaching with athletes via FaceTime, Zoom, and of course in person as well. Thanks.

=== FILE: How Do I Perform Under Pressure？ ｜ Basketball Mental Game Tips [enyD27wwwJ8].txt ===

 Do you tend to stop shooting at the end of the game when the pressure is on and you don't want to make a mistake? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn with Peak Performance Sports. I'm here with Carolyn Lawley. We're going to break it down and talk about how to make your best shots when you're under pressure at the end of the game and not just pass it. You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. Carolyn, I think for basketball players and all athletes alike, it's about that mindset at crunch time. It's about getting it done when you're under pressure and the game is tied and you've got to make a shot or you've got to make a stop, for example. I think that's what really separates great athletes from, you know, average athletes is, do they want the ball? Yeah, I think you'll notice those clutch players, those players that you trust taking that final shot, they're going after the ball. They're wanting that ball, they're calling for it and they've got a lot of confidence in themselves and their abilities. So I think definitely being able to trust in what you're doing is going to be important in shooting under pressure and performing under pressure in general. So what are some of the mistakes that ball players make when they're under pressure? Do you think it's mostly they're just going to dish it off? They don't want to take that last shot? Do you think it's they start to tighten up and they feel that tension in their legs or their arms? Do you think they worry about the outcome in the aftermath? What ultimately sabotages them that they're not able to perform up to their ability? Yeah, I think all of those things, I think playing it safe. So like you said, passing it up instead of taking an open shot, choosing to pass it to a teammate because you don't want that pressure of whether it's going to go in or it's not. I think a lot of athletes place the outcome, especially in those close games on themselves. And so they'll feel that if they miss the shot and the game is lost, then it's all on them. And that's why maybe they'll avoid taking that shot. So I think understanding going into games, there's always a risk of losing. There's always a risk of making mistakes. In fact, you are going to make mistakes. And so being able to understand and accept that, but still trust in your skills, go after the ball and give yourself the chance, the opportunity to make that shot is important. Yeah, and let's talk about that. What's going to give our athletes the best chance to do that? So there's, I don't know, 30 seconds left, 20 seconds left in the fourth quarter. You got to knock down a shot to tie it up or to go ahead. So what would be some of those skills that you would want athletes to really stay locked in and stay in that flow of the game? So I think just identifying it as it's the end of the game, the finality of it creates some of that anxiety and that worry in and of itself. So how do we get players beyond that? Yeah, I think number one is shifting your focus from the outcome and what could potentially happen to the moment in which whatever you're doing. So if you're on offense, you need to figure out how you're going to execute on offense. If you're going to take a shot, you need to go into that shot with a positive intention rather than being worried about missing or being worried about what's going to happen on the next play. I think the first thing is really staying present focused and focusing on the small things that you need to do to execute in that moment so that your focus isn't on, well, what if we lose? What if I missed this shot? Yeah, we talk a lot about it's just another play, right? Easy for us to say and tell our athletes it's just another play in the game. But can athletes trick themselves into we're still in the middle of the third period and we're just running another play? That normalize it for them or that's just asking for too much? Well, I would say that I think some athletes perform even better under pressure because they almost accept it and embrace the pressure. So for them, pretending like it's just any other part of the game may not be beneficial. But if you're someone who really tightens up and plays back on your heels, really focusing on, again, what you're doing in the moment and that it's no different than the way that you would do that movement or that shot at any other point in the game, I think will be important for athletes who tend to tense up in the pressure moment. So some of the same concepts we talk about a lot in the world of sports psychology. You have to stay in the moment, stay in the flow of the game. You got to want the ball, continue to be aggressive, love the challenge you're in. No, that's why you play the game because you want that challenge. You want the feelings of being able to take that last shot to win the game, for example, or tie up the game and let go of the outcome. I'm hearing a lot of that. Let go of the worry and the outcome. Am I going to disappoint parents, coach, teammates and just really be athletic and in the flow in the moment like it's another play? Absolutely. And I think you're going to give yourself the best chance at succeeding or executing that moment when you are able to stay in the present moment and not focused on what could potentially happen with the outcome. So again, like you mentioned, reframing it in the fact like this is an opportunity that I'm getting. I get to have the ball in my hands in the final seconds of this game rather than I have to or I'm scared of the outcome. Did you have these ideas and skills when you were playing ball? You know, a few of them, but I think being able to work with a mental coach would have been really helpful because I would find myself playing back on my heels, passing up some open shots and really worrying about what happens if I miss this shot and I cause us to lose the game. So being able to shift my mindset as an athlete, I think would have been really beneficial for me. And if you want a mental coach, look us up at Peak Performance Sports, that's peaksports.com, contact us, or check out the one-on-one virtual mental performance coaching programs. Thanks.

=== FILE: How Do I Play Better in Games？ ｜ Soccer Mental Game Performance [jK1vtyvqzYY].txt ===

 why do some soccer players absolutely shine in practice? They're great practice players, but they're unable to take that practice game to competition. Hi, I'm Patrick Cohen with Jaclyn Ellis, our mental performance coach at Peak Performance Sports. Today, we're going to break it down and talk about why athletes struggle in games compared to practice and what you can do better to perform more consistently in games. You're watching the Sports Psychology podcast. So, Jaclyn, the number one reason that parents and athletes contact us is because they see that their athletes are doing great in practice, but then they tend to struggle in games. It's almost like they see two different athletes, right? Very confident, free-flowing, aggressive athlete in practice, and then someone that's maybe more tentative, more scared, more distracted in games. What's going on there? Yes, several things could be going on here. Partly due to fear failure, it could be that they're thinking about all the consequences that come with underperforming in competition. It could be the social approval. I'm wanting to perform really well for others, or I want to impress this person, come competition, and it's impacting how they perform. What about trying to be perfect out there? I mean, you would think, well, if I want to play well in the game, I got to be perfect. And so those athletes that are trying too hard to be perfect, that's probably not going to work for them either. No, those perfectionist athletes are probably going to try to control their performance too much, and over control leads to more mistakes. And that's another big challenge when athletes are trying to be too perfect, and that's not going to help you bring that consistent performance from practice. So I think partly we're talking about consistency here, being able to consistently perform like you're capable of in the practice situation. So are there things that players need to add to what they're doing, or do they need to subtract to some of the things that are happening for them? For example, do we need them to deal with the fear of failure and the anxiety and the worry leading to tentative play, or is it just a matter of helping them develop a new pregame routine that will unlock them? How about both? We can focus on adding the pregame routine, consistency, understanding what pregame mistakes they might be making, and then we can also help them manage those fears leading up to the game and manage the nerves and the anxiety as well. What are pregame mistakes in your mind? Pregame mistakes could be bringing an expectation into the game right from the very start, or worrying about what others think, again, before the game starts. You know, I'm already thinking about what mom and dad will say or do after the game if I don't perform well. Yeah. I would say we have to remove those barriers first and foremost in order to unlock the athlete's performance on the field. And then that's icing on the cake when we can start to work on the consistency of the pregame routine. Some of those things, I think, will help. But what do we have to do to help the athlete get unlocked? I mean, fear of failure is a big component. We could probably spend an hour talking about that. But what are the cliff notes in terms of helping athletes if they're afraid to fail, if they're afraid to disappoint a parent, they're afraid to disappoint coach or teammates? Where do we go with that? That's so strong. It is. And so a lot of it is understanding what the athlete is worried about. And those were great examples. We can determine what the fears or worries are first. And then we want to help them rationalize and help them understand what is reasonable here. Is it reasonable for you, the athlete, to be afraid of what might happen or what, you know, what are my parents going to say? What is coach going to do? Has coach ever pulled you out for making a mistake? Or is that a fear that you created? Right. And I would add to that, Jacqueline, that you have to go onto the field with a mindset that I'm not going to judge myself. And likewise, no one else is judging me at the level I think they're judging me at. I think athletes always think that all eyes are on them, right? And they're being judged constantly by others. I think with that overhang, it's going to be very hard to play freely with trust in your skills. Yeah, that's a good point. Sometimes we'll ask the athlete, you know, when your teammate makes a mistake, what do you think about that? Do you continue to think about your teammate's mistake? Is it the end of the world? Or do you move on and you forget about that mistake? So you're right. Sometimes that is an overhang and we think that others are judging us too harshly when in reality, they're not. So number one, we have to manage the fears, any fear of failure by rationalizing. We have to have a better mindset altogether about judgment and what others think. And then thirdly, developing a consistent pregame routine that gets you in that mindset of no expectations, trust in your skills, focused on one player, one touch at a time so that you can go out and perform like you do in practice. All right, I've been talking with Jacqueline Ellis, one of our mental performance coaches at Peak Performance Sports. If you want more information about our one-on-one mental coaching via FaceTime or Zoom, check out peaksports.com. Thanks.

=== FILE: How Do I Prepare to Come Off the Bench？ ｜ Basketball Mental Game Tips [rXWKZvs8dI8].txt ===

 do you feel out of sorts when you come off the bench? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn with Carolyn Lolley. We're gonna talk about how to be prepared mentally and physically when you're coming off the bench and coach calls your number. You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. Carolyn, one of the challenges for players is being locked in and ready when their numbers call because you're sitting down, you get in a resting state, your heart rate is in a resting state, and then all of a sudden your number's called, you gotta go in and you gotta perform your best. On notice, what are the challenges around that for players? I think like you said, being able to stay locked in when you're on the bench to what's going on on the court can sometimes be difficult for athletes. And so I think the first step is really honing in on that focus, catching yourself when you feel like you are becoming distracted and refocusing. So that may look like picking a opponent on the floor and watching them kind of judging their habits with someone who you may guard if you go into the game. That may be a way that you can stay locked in and be ready when your numbers call. And I would say intensity is another challenge because you're sitting down for the most part, your heart rate comes back to a normal heart rate. And what we know about intensity and focus is the higher your intensity, the better you're going to focus on the court. And so that's a big challenge for getting the intensity up so you can focus your best, certainly. So what would you recommend for players to get their intensity up? I've been watching the US Open Tennis quite a bit and you see the players before important points, they're jumping up and down and back and forth and they're trying to get that heart rate up, they're trying to get moving to get that intensity up because in my estimation, intensity equals focus. How do we help them with that? So I think there's some physical aspects to that and then there's some mental aspects to the intensity. So staying locked in like we were talking about, keeping focused, that'll help with that intensity. But physically, so say your number's called number one while you're on the bench, you could keep your legs moving. If you watch the NBA, the WNBA when they come in, you may see them jump in a little bit, checking out their limbs to get that physical intensity up. If you have the option to go get on a bike or jump around a little bit before you're called, that may be something that you want to utilize as well. But you want to stay locked in mentally so that you have that intensity going in and then do what you can on the physical side. Yes, absolutely critical because that physical activation is gonna help the intensity. Whether it's bouncing in place or it's just running out to the court, to your position rapidly, something that's gonna get the heart rate up is gonna absolutely help the intensity. Okay, so we've talked about the focus, we've talked about the intensity. Where else do you want your athletes to be when they come off the bench? That will allow them to be locked in as quick as they can. I want every athlete coming off the bench to have a positive intention when they're going into the game. If you are coming off the bench, there may be some doubt on why am I not a starter or does coach think that I'm good enough to go in? I know as an athlete, if I ever came off the bench, I felt like I immediately needed to go in and perform or else I was going to be pulled straight out. So I think coming off the bench, no expectations, trusting in your skills, being decisive, instead of worrying about what you feel that you need to do and what coach feels that you need to do. So I'm hearing just make decent plays, make solid plays, don't feel like you have to make perfect plays out there and be great. Absolutely, if you're a shooter, don't feel like you need to go in in the first minute and hit three threes, right? Do what you can and what's given to you and trust in your abilities. And I think you brought up an important point about bench players when they're coming off. They are concerned about their playing time and how much they're gonna be on the game when they're going into the game. How can we defray that so that your players aren't thinking so much about the playing time, but they're thinking more about what they need to do on the court? Think reframing a little bit. So any chance that you get to go out on the court is an opportunity for you. And instead of thinking of it as I have to do this or I've gotta perform so that I can get more playing time, try to switch that mindset to, I get the opportunity to come out here and showcase what I've been practicing. And I'm gonna do the best that I can with what I have and what I've been practicing on. Yeah, and be a role player, right? Like focus on what your role is. Don't be all end all. Think about your process, your objectives when you're on offense, what you should be doing on transition and what you need to be doing on defense and dialing that down. So once you get on the court, you know exactly what you're going to do. What about visualizing to really stay in the game mentally, but also being mentally prepared when you go out there to run plays or run defenses? I think visualization is a wonderful tool to use, especially for someone who may be not getting as much playing time and be able to do the physical aspects, running through plays, shooting shots, getting reps, things like that. So taking a little bit of time, visualizing what you want to do when you step out on the court so that you do have that mental preparation. I think that's a great way to stay locked in and get prepared. And what would that look like for a shooter? What would that look like for a guard, for example? What do you want them visualizing? So for a shooter, I would suggest a spot on the floor that you tend to get a lot of your shots from and catching it smoothly, going into your shot and visualize yourself hitting that shot as many times as you can. And also don't forget the mental game there too, right? Like visualize yourself being decisive, trusting in your skills, having that positive intention that you want in that particular play. Great, I've been talking with Carolyn Lawley, one of our mental performance coaches at peakperformancesportsatpeaksports.com. If you want more information, jump over to peaksports.com and check out our one-on-one mental coaching programs, which we do virtually via FaceTime and Zoom with our athletes.

=== FILE: How Do I Stop Overthinking in Soccer？ ｜ Soccer Mental Game Performance [oMGDg26SVIY].txt ===

 are you playing too slow because you're overthinking on the field? Hi, I'm Patrick Cohn with Jaclyn Ellis. Today, we're going to talk about how to simplify your performance so that you don't allow overthinking to get in the way. You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. Jaclyn, one of the biggest challenges for our athletes is overthinking, and we really need to put our finger on that first, I think, because there's many different levels of overthinking. What is one of the most common ways your athletes are overthinking on the field? Yes, great question, Dr. Cohn. One of the major things that I've seen where athletes are overthinking is they are overthinking their decision-making. Usually, in the first couple of sessions, I understand that the athlete is overthinking, and I'll ask, are you overthinking your decisions or your mechanics? Most of the time, it's their decisions that they're unsure about. So when they're overthinking their decisions, we typically see two different challenges. One is they get caught between two decisions. Should I dribble around this opponent or should I pass the ball? It's 50-50 in their mind. They don't know what the best play is. The other form of challenges with decisions we call indecision is second guessing. I can just tap it around and dribble around this player and beat them or beat her, and then, well, wait a second, there must be a better option. There could be a more perfect play. So we see that in form of the indecision as well. What other forms of overthinking do we see? They could be overthinking their role on the field or they're in their position. Is this what I'm supposed to be doing right now or is this where I'm supposed to be? And they might even start worrying about what the coach thinks at that point. So the overthinking is starting to impact or create other mental game challenges. Especially if you're asked to play a new position. If you were an attack and then you were asked to play midfield, like that's totally new and you're going to have some challenges with overthinking. Am I in the right spot right now? Are we in shape? Where am I supposed to be? What's my role? So that's a big challenge for them as well. I think maybe a third category is just overthinking skills, overthinking technique. Yeah, do you see that? I do. And I'll never forget this. I had an athlete a few years back who was a high level athlete. He was in high school and he said, Coach Jaclyn, I am overthinking my feet. I don't know which foot I should receive the ball with, my right foot or my left foot, in a lot of situations. And so we had to break that down. And I asked him, well, where do you think this overthinking is coming from? Where is this lack of commitment or the lack of trust in that moment? And then we started talking, breaking it down and talking about solutions of where to go when that happens, what to do. Yes, athletes, if you're overthinking your footwork out there, you are not playing in the flow. You are not letting it happen. You want to save that for practice and not be focusing on what your feet are doing. You need to be more athletic when you're on the pitch so that you can get into the flow of the game easily. So let's talk about some more solutions for athletes that tend to overthink. Where do we need to start that process with? What are we going to focus on? Yes, so a lot of times, as we've mentioned, the overthinking is, they're unsure, they're hesitating. I like to try to get the athlete to understand where that lack of commitment is coming from. You mentioned it earlier, Dr. Cohen. Are they trying to be too perfect with it? We can start to attack that. Or is it about something else? Do they think there is a better solution or a better decision in that moment? Maybe they think, well, I can see the goal, but maybe my teammate has a better look at the goal. So I think I should pass to them instead of taking the shot. So getting to understand where is that lack of commitment coming from? And then we want to try to simplify things as much as possible for the athlete. Yeah, one of my models, especially when working in the area of soccer, is that there's no perfect play. There's only the decisive play. And that really resonates with them. That could be the simple play that's in front of them, but it's just the play that comes to your first instinct. That's the decisive play and sticking with it and not second guessing and questioning every move you're doing out there. Yes, I completely agree. And going back to my athlete from a few years back, who didn't know which foot to receive the ball with, trying to simplify that for him and getting him to understand that, hey, go with your first instinct, it's already there. Your body knows what to do. Yes, absolutely critical. Save the practice for practice. You really want to be more an intuitive, just let it happen into a free state reacting to what you see, reacting to what you're feeling. That's ultimately going to help you simplify your skills as well. So what's the simplest we can keep it for your athletes? So the simplest way to approach game time is by going with that first instinct. So for example, if you think that you have a shot on goal, you see the target, you hit that target, you do not need to overthink it or second guess it. Again, your body already knows what to do. See the target, hit the target, come up with a phrase that you can repeat to yourself in those moments. I have a move in mind that I want to use on this one V one. Let's use the move. I see the pass. Let's make the pass. Yeah, it could be as simple as just looking from ball to foot, ball to area. And that's all your information really that your body needs to perform. Doesn't have to be complex. I've been talking with Jacqueline Ellis, mental performance coach at Peak Performance Sports. If you want more information about programs or products, we do have Soccer Confidence 2.0, which we recently revised. It's a great audio and workbook program, or we do the one on one coaching. You can check those out at peaksports.com. Thanks.

=== FILE: How Do I Visualize in Soccer？ ｜ Soccer Mental Game Performance [gpyc71_-Jl0].txt ===

 Are you seeing bad pictures in your mind before you go out and play? Hi, I'm Patrick Hohn with Jacqueline Ellis, our mental coach at Peak Performance Sports. Today, we're going to talk about how to visualize in the right way to improve your performance. You're watching the Sports Psychology podcast. Jacqueline, one of the most important concepts, I think, for athletes is that they're seeing in their mind what they want to do instead of seeing in their mind what they don't want to do. In other words, failing. I remember I worked with a young golfer many years ago, and I asked her if she was visualizing her shots, and she said, no, I stopped doing that. And I said, well, why? She said, because whenever I visualized a shot, I would see a bad shot in my mind. And that's certainly not what we want for athletes. So have you worked with any athletes that have that negative imagery going on? Yes, it is more common than a lot of people think, especially in soccer, depending on the position. If they're playing striker and they see a negative image of, let's say, the ball going over the post, over the goal, or even whipping the ball, not making contact at all. And that can be really hurtful to performance. Yeah, or generally before a game, they could have a feeling that I'm going to fail, like, or I'm not going to succeed today. Pros would never do that, right? But they have this feeling I'm going to fail, I'm not going to succeed, I'm going to disappoint others. And that's absolutely the opposite of what you want pregame to have that general disposition that you're going to fail. Then all the images start flying in to your head about what not to do and making mistakes out there. So let's talk about what is mental rehearsal? What is visualization? Let's break it down for the audience. Sure. So there are several phrases, words that we use to describe visualization. Anytime you hear guided imagery, mental imagery, all of that is describing this idea of visualization where you can use the images in your mind, certain feelings, really all of the senses to help you improve performance. So it's really just taking your skills, trying to see them in your mind and recreate those skills and feelings, even mental game skills to help you improve performance for competition. But your athletes are already doing that somewhat naturally, aren't they? No one has to really teach them how to visualize or how to mental rehearse. It kind of happens naturally, right? It does. It's almost sort of daydreaming. A lot of athletes tend to daydream about their sport and come up with all of the what if scenarios. So if you can visualize success, that would better help performance. But a lot of these athletes are visualizing the failures, as you mentioned, and that's hurting performance now. On the opposite side of the spectrum, though, you have athletes that are trying to visualize perfect plays, like they're going to kick it right, absolutely in the corner where the goalie is not going to get to it. But then when they don't execute like they imagined or visualized, then they say, well, what's wrong with me? Right. And that can be a big issue as well. If we're trying to imagine perfection, perfection doesn't exist, right? But we encourage our athletes to visualize realistic scenes, you know, and success is great, but something more realistic. So it doesn't have to be, you know, top top, top, top corner of the goal. It can be, you know what, maybe I visualize taking a shot and the keeper gets a hand on the ball, but it still goes in. That would be a little bit more realistic. So let's say that I'm a player and I'm I have some negative images going through my mind before the game. I've been working on my dribble with my opposite foot, and I'm worried about losing the ball with my opposite foot. So what would you recommend that I do then if that happens? So in this example, I would ask you to stop, catch yourself in that moment, visualizing yourself making the mistake, rewind the tape, and then I'd ask you to visualize yourself successfully executing that skill. What would it look like for you to successfully dribble with your non dominant foot or whatever the task is? Also visualize how you could do that skill confidently. What would that feel like or doing the skill with trust in your abilities, being athletic with that skill, and not overthinking that skill. So often when I work with my athletes, I want them to visualize in the mindset that they want to successfully execute and not just the physical components of the skill. Right, yes, we can include those mental game skills alongside the technical skills. Absolutely, yes, they can be paired together, I believe. What are the best times for athletes to mentally rehearse or visualize? That's the beauty of visualization. You can use it pregame to prepare for game time, visualize your position, what your role is going to be on the field. You can also visualize during the game, even if you're on the bench or if you're on the field. Visualize yourself making successful passes to teammates or taking great shots or taking shots in general. You can go through your position and let your mind wander a little bit. There really is no wrong way to visualize or wrong time as long as you are correcting those negative images in your mind as you go. Yeah, and I like the idea of coming off the bench, being mentally prepared, visualization, mental rehearsal is a great way to see yourself coming out with intensity and focus and being dialed in right from the first minute when you're out there. Great, I've been talking with Jacqueline Ellis of Peak Performance Sports. If you want more information about one-on-one mental coaching or our soccer program, Soccer Confidence 2.0, jump over to peaksports.com and we'll see you there. Thanks.

=== FILE: How to Build Stable Confidence ｜ Baseball Throwing Yips Tips [_pXWArPDB7c].txt ===

 can one mistake or one bad throw or one bad play rock your confidence? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn with Brock McCormack. Today, we're going to talk about the difference between having stable versus fragile confidence for ball players. You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. Yeah, one of the biggest problems with the YIPS is confidence can fade really quickly. Confidence in sports tends to be very fragile, especially after mistakes. Really with the YIPS, what happens is when you're focusing on failure and only looking at the bad throws that you make, you're going to exaggerate that and start to think that you don't make any good throws. Another issue and confidence killer is that when you find yourself comparing where you're at with where your teammates are at in terms of throwing. So we know based upon, you know, 30 years of working with athletes that confidence in general tends to be fragile for athletes. It doesn't make sense that you've executed thousands of plays literally or thousands of throws, and you have one or two bad plays or bad throws, and you're going to throw years of confidence building out the window. We call that fragile confidence. I'm only as good as my last play. I'm only as good as my last throw, which we think is really irrational based upon the number of successful throws and plays you've made over the years. Yeah, when I when I break it down with my athletes, I always say there's kind of two buckets of information that we can go to. The first bucket is really small and that comes from the hundred throws you made today in practice. And then the second bucket is the 100,000 throws that you've made in your life. And I asked them the simple question, where would you rather draw from to build your confidence? Well, that just gives a bigger picture idea that you know how to do this, right? So it's rebuilding the belief that I still know how to throw a baseball. I just need to build up the confidence and the trust to be able to unlock it again. You know, I always like to tell ball players, we're looking for nine out of 10. We're not looking for 10 out of 10. Let's not have that expectation that every single throw, every single play has to be there for you. Give yourself a little wiggle room. You can make that occasional suspect or marginal throw and you can still say face and maintain your confidence because eight out of 10 or nine out of 10 are still good throws. And you absolutely want to focus on those. So let's not panic and throw away the baby with the bathwater, they say, if you have one bad throw. Yeah, I mean, this entire process of coming back from the YIPS is all about reframing failure as a learning opportunity. If you're taking failure and turning it into your identity and saying, I'm a failure now as a baseball player, it's going to be a lot harder to recover from that. So it's separating your confidence with one practice or one throw. Also, it's really trying to avoid comparing where you're at to where you used to be in the past. When you look into the past and think, oh, I used to be able to throw so well and I can't anymore, it's going to be hard to rebuild any confidence in yourself. So I always like to say to my athletes, we're creating a new normal, a new normal. It's not what you felt last year. This is new. It might be a little bit uncomfortable right now, but we got to create a new path forward and work with whatever we have right now because we can't get back the past. We got to deal with the hand we've been dealt. So what do you think is the best way to get players focusing more on success and what they're doing well on the field? Well, one of the best ways that I like to relive those good throws and good moments is if you have footage of yourself playing, could be an awesome way to look back at a highlight reel of you pitching really well, tricking your brain into believing that, hey, that's me. I've done it before. I know I can do it again. So could be watching highlight tapes, could be if you don't have those just sitting down and visualizing yourself making good throws as well. We know that the brain doesn't understand the difference between real and imagined experiences. So visualization is sneakily going to be one of the most powerful tools in this process to rebuild that trust, belief and confidence in the brain. And how does that visualization process work? Is that just before practice at home, before the game, just going through a few reps? Yeah, as regularly as possible. The more time you want to commit to it, the more you're going to get out of it. So if you can try to visualize when you wake up, when you go to bed, three to five minutes, five to 10 minutes, whatever you're comfortable with, keep it short, keep it deliberate. Nobody wants to sit down and visualize for 45 minutes. So keep it quick. So your attention is at its highest focus so that you can bring those pictures to life in your head. Great. I've been speaking with Brock McCormack, one of our mental coaches at Peak Performance Sports, specializing in the Yips for ball players and also for golfers as well. Brock, thanks for joining me. If you want more information, jump over to baseball-yips.com and you could read some more articles about this phenomenon. Or if you're interested in the coaching, jump over to peaksports.com and contact us. Thank you.

=== FILE: How to Make Consistent Throws ｜ Baseball Throwing Yips Tips [KVCWFP6DGRc].txt ===

 Do you get confused about what to think about in order to make a good throw on the field? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Hohn with Brock McCormack. Here we're going to talk about how to use different images that may help improve your consistency when you're throwing in games and in practice situations as well. You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. So Brock, we've talked quite a bit in this series about ball players that tend to focus too much on their mechanics. They tend to focus too much on their arm slot, what their release is doing, maybe changing their mechanics because the throwing goes off. And that's typical, obviously, when coaches say, hey, try this, your arm slot is too high, your arm slot is too low, like, and then they start really overthinking the process. You and I, we're all about simplifying, as we've talked about in the series. And one of the ways to do that is to help your ball players tap into one image, one simple image that helps them free it up. Yeah, the biggest step in that process is finding what your preference is, finding which images or strategies that your brain processes the best to kind of bring that throw to life. Dr. Cohen, can you break down some of the most popular or well found strategies or types of images that Yip's athletes have benefited from in your work? Yes, definitely. But I want to preface that and say that not everybody's a visual performer, not everybody sees targets or sees trajectories. So but that's my preferred route to start with to help ball players free it up is I want them to see the trajectory of that shot. Instead of seeing the safe throw, go high up through the air to the pitcher, I want them to see it like on a line that in and of itself that one image is really telling the ball player or telling the person that you know what, this is the line I need to throw it on or just seeing a target, seeing the chest of the pitcher if it's a catcher throwing back to the pitcher. So if you're dealing with a visual learner and performer, that's one of my go to strategies. If it's more kinesthetic or more feel oriented, then you have to go to something totally different where that athlete doesn't have the ability to see a visual image. They can certainly watch the chest of the pitcher, of course, but they can't create a trajectory that they can see in their mind like a string going directly to the pitcher's glove. So in that case, you want to go to something more like freedom or tempo or something that is going to be very simple and very broad that will help cue them to make a free throw. And I do like the term effortless as well. I don't know if it's really auditory from that perspective. I don't talk a lot about the auditory, but it can be tactile for ball players. What do you find, bro? Yeah, I mean, I would say the visual and feel based are certainly the two most beneficial. I really like to give a little preface a little tip here is I like to call it the three T's when thinking about process cues with the athletes that I work with is target tempo trust, right? And that ties in both of those. The target is the external focus. It's more visual based. The tempo is the feel based cue. And then the trust is, Hey, at the end of the day, we got to focus on being athletic, letting the throw happen. So the three T's target tempo trust, that really resonates with a lot of athletes because it incorporates all of those different strategies into one simple mantra. Yeah. And I know with pitchers I've worked with, they like the feeling of whippy, getting whippy with their throw helps them free it up as well or grip it and rip it a more feel oriented cue for them where they're just ripping it. And that's where you want to be when a catcher is ripping it down the second base, they're making a good throw, even if they have the so called YIPS. However, they're not ripping it back to the pitcher because they're afraid of giving up a base or they're afraid of looking silly. So I've got a question for you. One of the biggest things that athletes come to me with when they have the YIPS is I can't get these negative pictures out of my head. Like I close my eyes and all I can see are the bad throws. How can we help them try to start envisioning the good throws again? Yeah, good point. So you want to rewind the tape, obviously rewind the video and go back to an earlier stage and maybe break it down into segments. Those segments could be just that first part of feeling like your arm is free, like it's moving through space freely and it's not obstructed. So it could be that simple instead of having to visualize or see the entire trajectory of the pitch. It could be much more simple than that. Yeah, and really the biggest thing in understanding why those negative images pop up is when stuck in the YIPS cycle, your brain is in defense mode. And the main job that your brain is trying to accomplish is to protect you from making another one of those bad throws. Unfortunately, our brain does that in the way of showing us a picture of what it doesn't want to happen. So that's not really going to help us get out of the cycle because then we're running from what we don't want to happen. So I always like to tell my athletes you're not going to be able to get rid of the negative images, but we have to override them with the positive ones again, because if we don't, those are going to continue to pop up. Great tip. So bottom line, the lesson for today is play around with some different images, call it imagery, call it images, call it feelings, cues, throwing cues that is going to help you personally free it up. I've been talking with Brock McCormick. I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn with Peak Performance Sports. If you're interested in the one-on-one coaching, jump over to peaksports.com and contact us. Thanks for watching.

=== FILE: How to Simplify Your Throwing ｜ Baseball Throwing Yips Tips [XNWNXy9OZuA].txt ===

 Are you trying so many different things on the baseball field that you're actually making your throwing worse? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn with Brock McCormack. Today, we're going to talk about players that focus on too much information and ultimately make their throwing worse. You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. Yeah, one of the biggest issues with the YIPS is overcoaching and overanalyzing and really trying to just do too much to overcome it all at once. With baseball and softball right now, the mechanics-based focus and filming mechanics and really breaking things down from a biomechanical perspective is all great, but when it comes to the YIPS, we want to kind of put all of that on the back burner. You don't want to spend more time breaking down your mechanics just because you have the YIPS. You actually kind of want to do the opposite. You really want to try to get back to that backyard wiffleball mindset is what I like to call it is. Think about just like playing catch in the backyard when you were younger. That's the kind of level of focus we want to get to. We don't need to think about how to get the ball there. You just looked at the glove and you made it happen. That sounds hard to do at first, but that's what we're trying to work towards. Yeah, I think Ken Revisah used to call that caveman pitching. Was that his thing? Like caveman pitching is you're just mindless. You're just brainless, but it's not always a mindless task. Like you want to take your mind out of the overthinking of the mechanics, over trying different things, going to sidearm, changing your slot, changing how far back you take it. None of that is really helpful when it comes to the YIPS and it causes you to get into more overthinking. So for us, from our perspective, it's really less thinking is better. However, it's not no thinking as the caveman approach would have you think. I like my ball players Brock to have one thing that they're focusing on that will help them get out of that hyper focus on what their arm is doing in space. The hyper focus is just that how far back should I take it? Where's my arm slot? What's my release? What's my release should be? And they're really grinding on the minute details of it and maybe even changing their mechanics in the process of that. We want ball players to get away from that learning, that training, that practice mindset and get back into the caveman mindset, but at the same time have one cue that they're focusing on. Yes, absolutely. And you may be used to mechanical based cues. Let's switch those to more feel based cues or external cues like, hey, eyes to target, stay connected, trust it, trust and react, let it happen. Another good little tip for you to try out is try to get into that competition mindset. When you're stuck in the training mindset, it's going to be easy to stay in this Yip cycle of over analysis. Use some fun low stakes reps or challenges or competitions like, how many throws out of 10 can I get into the small target that I'm throwing into? That helps you get into more of that athletic trusting and more natural throw instead of feeling like you're a scientist and breaking things down too much. Yeah, an interesting phenomenon I find with catchers Brock is they can throw down to second perfectly, but they struggle throwing back to the pitcher. That just does it's just not rational to me. But if you break it down, what's the difference when they're throwing back to the catcher, they're trying to increase their pop time, they're trying to go really quick. And when they're trying to go really quick, they don't have that time to overthink what they're doing with their arm, right? As opposed to when they're throwing back to the pitcher, they have a lot of time to break it down, think about their release and their slot and all the mechanical things that they think is trying to make a good throw and even changing their mechanics to the point where they go to that safe throw as well. So I think there's something to be learned there. Most of the catchers can throw to bases relatively with ease. But then when they make that short throw back to the pitcher, they struggle with that. That's a tough one. And this is why the Yips really doesn't make sense, because the easiest throw back to the pitcher seems to become the hardest, but you'd think the hardest throw to second base now becomes easy, just like Dr. Cohn said, because it's reactionary. When you're throwing to second, you have to react. It's boom, boom. When you're throwing back to the pitcher, you're allowed to take more time. Well, that time between you catching the ball and throwing it back to the pitcher is where those negative and unproductive thoughts pop in. So if you're really in the heart of the Yips and struggling with your throws back to the pitcher, for example, I really like to urge my catchers to just try to get rid of the ball as quickly as possible. It doesn't mean you're going to do that for the rest of your career, but we want to rebuild the more reactionary, which is catch and throw, catch and throw. Instead of catch, pause, think, analyze, throw, let's rebuild the trust by just going bang, bang, catch, throw, catch, throw. Yeah. And it could be catch, stand, throw, or it could be catch, step, throw, or could have another one in there, something that's a mantra in essence that they're repeating themselves that locks their conscious mind into that mantra so that they can allow their arm to throw naturally. Yeah. And you can even get even more simple with it. I've actually had athletes that use a one, two, three mantra, which is, you know, the catch, step, throw, you just turn that into a one, two, three, and in your head, you count one, two, three, and it keeps you in tempo. Brock, what's the concept of using variable practice for ball players? Yeah, variable practice. So first we got to understand the opposite of that, which is constant practice, which is grabbing a baseball and throwing from the same distance 50 times. So you step on the line and you're throwing from 60 feet the entire time. Well, that's just going to keep you stuck in the same cycle if you continue to do the same thing. So variable practice is mixing it up, throwing from different distances, different arm slots, throwing into different targets, finding ways to mix your throwing up to essentially mix your brain up a little bit, confuse the brain back into realizing you know how to throw. Great. Love the tips. I've been talking with Brock McCormack, one of our mental coaches at Peak Performance Sports, specializing in baseball and golf and other sports as well, and works with most of our YIPS players. Brock, thanks for joining me. If you want more information, jump over to baseball-YIPS.com for more articles and tips there. Or if you're interested in the coaching, you can jump over to peaksports.com and contact us there. Thanks for watching.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.570424Z ===
