 intimidated intimidated, intimidated, intimidated, intimidated, intimidated, intimidated, intimidated, You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. Carolyn, we know that it's vitally important to have a routine on the foul line. And a routine includes many different components. But if you don't have a routine and you just step up there, you know, you look at the rim and shoot, not a bad way to go, I mean, because you're being athletic. But what's the downside to not having a routine? Well, I think specifically for free throws, it's important to have something that is set, that you can go back to every single time at the line. Number one, because you have a set time limit. You can't be up there longer than 10 seconds and then just throw it up there. So that's the first aspect. A lot of athletes have a physical routine, but they don't implement that mental aspect to that pre-shot routine. What's the physical look like? Is that just the getting square and bouncing the ball? Yeah. And if you'll look at, you know, Kevin Durant, for instance, he likes to spin the ball a couple times, bounce it right before he shoots it. Is he doing that to look fancy or is there a purpose behind that, do you think? I think there's a purpose, but I guess you'd have to ask him on the fanciness of it. But no, I think every basketball player generally wants to have a routine at the line because, again, it's something that you can go back to and it's contributing to that muscle memory and allowing you to access, you know, that muscle memory when you get into it. But again, that mental side is just as important as the physical routine. Yeah. And I think if you ask most players, they say, well, step up, get your feet in position, bounce the ball a couple of times and look at the hoop, right? They'll go directly to the physical side. And they should. They should have that physical routine as well, whether it's spinning the ball or bouncing the ball, whatever they like to do that maybe creates a rhythm or a sense of comfort or relaxation for them. What are some of the mental skills then beyond that we want to integrate into that pre-shot routine at the line? I think one of the best mental skills that you can incorporate into a pre-shot routine is some self-talk. So especially let's say you miss your first free throw, you get two. So you maybe step back and give yourself some type of encouraging self-talk. And that may look like the next one's in or, you know, locking on the rim, follow through. To give yourself a little bit of confidence but remind yourself you've got another shot and not worried about the missed shot. Yeah. And I think the most important thing for really for any play is for you to make a decision and be decisive. How are you going to shoot this? You know, is it your normal trajectory that you're going for? Are you going to put a little bit more height on it? Be really committed and really decisive with the type of shot that you're going to hit. And for most players it's going to be a very similar shot. And then after that, obviously you said the self-talk for confidence. Very, very important. What about the planning stage in terms of just seeing the ball go in? When you played, did you see the ball go in or did you feel something in your stroke to kind of pre-play that shot? I was a player who really relied on that self-talk. But I had seen many other players who, before they shot it, they would go through their range of motion. And they would even close their eyes and visualize making that shot. So having a routine that's very unique to you and what you need in that moment is important. So being able to work with a mental coach that can help you develop that pre-shot routine is, I think, very useful. Yes. And we certainly help players develop routines, pre-game routines, pre-shot routines. That's one of the skills that we teach. The other skill that's very important, I think, is to be able to be athletic and trust in your shot. How do you get players to trust in their shot on the foul line instead of overthink the heck out of it? Yeah, I think that goes into the routine. So relying on that muscle memory, understanding that you've put in the practice, and now it's time to allow your muscle memory to essentially play for you. So not worrying, not trying to overcorrect or overcontrol that shot, and just allowing yourself to follow through. And again, I think that's why a routine is important because it's something that you have to fall back on. And you don't have to overanalyze every time you step up to the line. Well, and I think that's what players are doing when it's an important shot. When they really want to make and it's important for them, they start to up the ante. Certainly, they put more in the ante, and there's more on the line for them. That's when they go to, well, make sure you make a good shot. And they start to overcontrol it and think about the how-tos, rather than continue to just look at their target and be athletic with it. And that was something that I would struggle with even. If it was a close game or time was out and I needed to make that free throw, sometimes I would overcontrol a little bit and not trust in my skills. So being able to, again, rely on your routine, rely on that muscle memory, not overthink it or try to make any corrections in the moment, and be confident when you step up to the line. Yes, athletes, one of the hardest skills is when you're under pressure and you need a shot that you don't go to overcontrol, that you continue to be in the flow and let it happen like you have the entire game. I've been talking with Carolyn Lawley. She's our mental performance coach, especially for basketball at Peak Performance Sports. If you're interested in improving your routines or other mental skills, jump over to peaksports.com and contact us, and we can shoot you some information about our one-on-one virtual mental coaching programs. Thanks.