Hi, do you focus on everything that could go wrong in a competition and then stress out and lose your confidence? I am Dr. Patrick Cohn, in this video I'm going to talk about how you can stay more mentally tough prior to a game or leading up to a competition and not catastrophize. You're watching sessions with Doc. The question that I received from Chris says, "I'm an ice hockey goalie and I keep recalling the times when I did not prepare well and I got benched. Ironically, I'm doing the same thing right now before I got benched before. I think the competition is too good. I can't beat them and when I go on the ice I can't play my best. I lose the game before it starts. I predict that I'm going to be out shot or am going to blow it because my team is not out matching the other team. How can I have more mental strength before games?" Chris great question about mental toughness here before games. What you're doing let me talk a little bit about the mental error that you're making. What you're doing is you're living in the past in negative scenarios or negative situations and then you're projecting that onto a future game where your catastrophizing. Now catastrophizing is this process that athletes go through where they focus on all the wrong things and they focus on what's going to happen that's going to rock your boat for example so you're more worried about getting scored on then really making stops in essence and so that's not gonna serve you well when you going to the game and the reason why you might feel little bit tired before a game is because your anxiety level and your stress level is causing you to really be tired even before the game starts and i've seen this before with other athletes. They're so stressed 24 hours 48 hours before game because of this negative thinking this catastrophizing maybe fear of failure that once they get in the game they feel like they've already played a full game, they're already tired and as an athlete that is not going to help you be mentally tough, that's going to sabotage your performance if you start the game that way. So how did you develop more mental strength in this scenario? First of all, what I want to do if you have the ability to do this I want you to develop a highlight-reel so have a coach or have a parent or teammates whatever you can do if you already have video then I want you to create that highlight reel where all you're doing is making great saves one after the next even better yet if you can put it to your favorite music then you have your own little music video of you making great saves and that's what I basically want you to do when you're preparing for games is I want you to have some positive visualization. Right now you have what's called negative or catastrophic visualization that's not going to help you perform your best. So it's a couple things for you one is get the confidence up to a level where you know why you deserve to be confident let's focus on your practice, your work ethic your skills your hand-eye coordination all the things that go into being a good goalie. I want you to focus more on those things. Ok secondly, when you think about the game I only want you to think about that positive highlight reel in your mind where you're feeling yourself and you're seeing yourself make great saves. Now for athletes that tend to get a little stressed out a little anxious one of my recommendations is stop focusing on the game altogether your mental preparation starts an hour before the game so I forbid you to focus on that game up until an hour before the game. Now what do you do in the meantime? Well in the meantime it's very simple How do you prepare your best, how do you get ready for that game? That should be your whole world leading up to that game right before that hour before game time then you can kick in that positive visualization, that positive highlight-reel that positive music video that we talked about. I think that's going to really help. Thanks for the question and good luck with your game. Hey please subscribe to my YouTube channel you can use this button up here on your right on my left something like that and down here we have some videos in this series on mental toughness so you can continue to improve your mental game. Thanks, you been watching sessions with doc, I'll see you next week.