Hi, do you have trouble keeping your focus when the conditions are really tough outside and all the other competitors are able to deal with that and it's not affecting their performance? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn with Peak Performance Sports, peaksports.com. In this video, I'm going to talk about how you can focus your best once you get into conditions that are not optimal for you and maybe distracting. You're watching "Sessions with Doc." Here's the question that I received from Jerome: He said, "I play roller hockey. When the game gets tough or the weather is extremely hard, I find myself losing focus or becoming distracted. The grittier players or mentally tough players are able to work through the conditions much better than I can. How do I keep my focus in tough conditions and be mentally tough through that?" Jerome, obviously if you're focusing and bringing attention to the tough conditions, if it's extremely hot or if it's windy out or if you don't like the conditions on the surface of the field or the track or the course. That's going to be a problem because its taking your focus away from where it needs to be and that is executing in the game itself. One of the things that I like to do for my athletes is, I start with identifying what are the most important performance cues that they need to focus on. In this case for you, its play roller hockey. So you have to determine if you're on offense and you're running a play, what are the specific cues that you need to focus on? For example, and I don't know roller hockey that well but I can talk about hockey. So let's say you're on offensive play and you got a 3-on-2, well, the most important thing to focus on in that situation is creating a scoring opportunity. Then you have to decide how are you going to create a scoring opportunity. That is I'm either going to skate it in or I'm going to pass to the open man and we're going to try for a shot on net. Those are what we call performance cues and staying in the moment. If you start focusing on the ice conditions, let's just say it's ice hockey, for example, and that the ice is too cold or it's too warm, the ice is too soft, whatever it may be. You're taking your attention away from where it needs to be on the game instead of you're focusing more on stuff that's unrelated. One of the things I want you to tell yourself at the start of the game is "Hey, it's hot out, the conditions are tough but everybody has to deal with it." So, the more you bring attention to it, the more you're going to focus on. So, essentially what I'm asking you to do is shift your focus to something related to an objective, a small objective that you want to do in the game, such as get open to receive a pass or get open so you can make a shot on net, for example. So, be really clear when you go out and play, of what's important to focus on and then what's just a sideshow or what's a distraction. When you find yourself focusing on the conditions, make sure you refocus quickly back onto the game and what you're doing in that moment, whether on offense or defense. Thanks for the question! If you want more information about how to improve your focus, go to peaksports.com and check out The Focused Athlete CD and workbook program. That's a program where I take you through in a workbook fashion, step by step, on how to improve your focus. And before you leave, please subscribe to my channel. The button is right here on my left, which will be on your right. And also, we suggest another video for you to watch over here as well. You have been watching "Sessions with Doc."