Just before you go into a competition do you tend to doubt your skills and feel like you don't have any energy or spunk? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn, in this video I'm going to answer a question from a skater about how she goes in and out her skills and feels this lack of energy before she competes. You're watching sessions with Doc. So here's the question that I received from Vicky. She said, "Right before a big competition or skating test I doubt my skills and imagine the worst possible outcome will happen. I have a hard time monitoring my self-talk and trusting my skills. Sometimes I get into a drowsy almost like tired state that is hard to break out of. Thus, I don't have the energy and spunk. Why am I not more mentally tough leading up to my skating competitions or tests?" Well Vicky good question and I think these two are related I believe that you have some type of anxiety or worry about not doing well but typically it's not just about not doing well it's about the aftermath of that. In other words, let's say you go in there and you don't pass that skating test or you fall on your jumps in the big competition. Then what's so awful about that? What is that ultimately going to mean to you are you going to disappoint people are you gonna be disappointed you put in all this time and effort you feel like maybe you're wasting your time with all the practice so there's something going on there about the aftermath and that's why when you get into competition you feel tired and drowsy and don't have the energy because you're stressing yourself out before you get there. Now i talked about this in a previous video but it's worth mentioning again and that is what you want to do leading up to a competition is ask yourself one question, "What do I have to do to prepare my skills this week?" So I forbid you from thinking about the competition until the morning of or maybe one hour at least when you take your warm-up skate, that's when you can start thinking about the competition that way you're not gonna stress yourself out worrying about the competition, worrying about what could go wrong, worrying about who you're gonna disappoint. So only focus on one thing - how am I going to get better every day and trust my skills before I get to competition day. So your not even going to think about competition day your just going to think about your program, improving your program, becoming a performer, getting into your role in your music, and your timing down all those things are going to be really really important for you. Now the morning of all I want you to think about are the reasons why you belong the reasons why you're good skater. That's much different than doubting your skills. So I want you to go to the competition and already have something written out and it answers the question why do I deserve to be confident in my abilities? Well I have the best fitness, I have solid jumps, I have good spins, I have good hand-eye coordination, I practice everyday, whatever it may be that makes you feel confident and also I want you to do is review those in your mind over and over again that one hour to two hours prior to competition. Now one last thing, make sure you get your energy up, make sure you do ride your bike do some jumping jacks something before you go out on the ice for your program get the heart rate back up so you can feel like you have some energy and spunk going. Don't sit around waiting for other competitors. Keep your intensity up, keep your energy level up and that will help you when you get in the program. Thanks for the question and I hope that helps you with your mental toughness before you go out in competitions. Hey, if you want more videos and you're not a subscriber yet to mindset for sports please subscribe to my videos using this button up here in the upper right-hand side in addition there is another video over here queued up for you on this series on mental toughness in sports, go check that one out. Your watching sessions with doc ,we'll see you next week!