Hi, do go into competition with the best plan possible but when their plan doesn't play out and things don't go according to your plan then you tend to lose focus and maybe flip out? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn, in this video I'm going to talk about how you can plan for the unexpected as well as have a great game plan for the game or competition. You're watching sessions with Doc. So here's a question that I received from Tim; Tim said, "my son is an MMA fighter. He panics when things don't go as planned. This leads to a loss of focus and eventually a loss of confidence. Things happen fast in this sport and we cannot afford to lose focus and confidence for any reason. How can he improve his mental toughness when things don't go as planned?" Tim, good question and it's a reason why I selected this to do a video on. Often I think athletes go into competition, go into a fight, go into a golf match, go into a tennis match, they have the best intentions. They have a plan for exactly what they want to do to score points for example in this particular situation. Well sometimes things don't always go as planned in sports and so your son is struggling with the fact that what's happening in the competition isn't going according to his plan and his mind about how it should be going. So certainly that's going to lose to a loss of focus and maybe a loss of confidence so what's the plan for him? What do you need to do in this particular situation? First of all, he needs to understand that not everything is going to go as planned so we have a concept in mental coaching it's called anticipate and cope. What I would want your son to do is be able to anticipate how a match or a fight is going to go in many different ways. He's planning for it to all go perfectly in his direction, obviously. What you want to do is you want to plan for any eventuality like if he gets hit or if he gets stunned or he gets put down or something happens he wants to have a coping response for each and every one of those things. Now it's not negative thinking it's just good planning. so how do you do that? Well, It's based upon past experience what's kind of rocked his world and have plans for those things and then it's just common sense thinking ahead about what could go wrong in in a fight situation where you would want to be able to adjust compensate. Remember sports is all about adjusting and compensating. It's not always about things always going to plan and you always being in the zone that really doesn't happen. If someone tells you that they're gonna get you in the zone every minute on the field or on the mat or in the ring then they're feeding you a line BS really because it just doesn't happen. Most of the time athletes are performing you know somewhere between fair and good and rarely are they ever in the zone per se. Secondly, very quickly he needs to stabilize his confidence. In other words true confidence is stable and lasting. He needs to come in with a full tank of confidence which we call proactive confidence. You can learn more about that at peaksports.com, in addition when things don't go just right for him he needs to stay on the confidence horse. He needs to stay on that confidence  train and not get rocked off that confidence train. That's extremely important. So anticipate and cope and he needs a more stable level of confidence and not allowing it to get rocked so easily that way he's going to have more mental toughness when things don't go according to plan. Thanks for your question, good luck with your son sport. If you want some more videos please subscribe to my YouTube channel here and you'll be notified when we post new videos. In addition, we've got another video over here that's in this series on mental toughness in sports. Thanks, you've been watching session with Doc.