Hi, as a sports parent, are you overly invested in your child's sport and place undue pressure on them? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Con. In this video, I'm going to talk about how to take the pressure off your kids and help them have more fun in sports. You're watching Sessions with Doc. So, here's the question that I received this week from Monica. Monica's a sports parent and she has a young 10-year-old athlete. Here's what she has to say. Your podcasts at the Ultimate Sports Parent Podcast and articles at youports psychology.com have really helped me realize the pressure I was unknowingly placing on my 10-year-old daughter just by being overly invested in her sport. She didn't want to disappoint me. And that had a negative effect on her and stopped her development in sports. Now I have completely toned it back and my only wish is that she gets back her love for the game. I just want her to have fun again. My question is should I talk about this with her and her loss of confidence or should I just avoid the subject altogether? I don't want her to dwell on the subject too much. I really appreciate your help. Okay. So, Monica, the challenge is here, you've been overly invested in your athlete and she realized that from an outcome or results perspective because maybe you've talked a little bit about too much about winning. Maybe you placed a lot of expectations on her that she internalizes as expectations like you should win this match 606 or you should score three goals in the soccer match today or you shouldn't let anybody buy you on defense. Those type of things uh are called expectations in our world and kids internalize those as pressure. So if you want her to have fun again, then my suggestion is that you stop focusing on outcome. You stop focusing on scores. You stop focusing on making goals or statistics for her. Instead, you get back to what excites her when she started playing her sport. What did she really love about it? In addition to that, you have to tap into her true motivation. What do I mean by true motivation? That means why is she doing what she's doing? Why is she out there day after day practicing her sport? And the answer might surprise you because you might find out that she's just social and she loves the camaraderie of being on a team or she loves the fact that she's improving her skills. For example, she likes to master skills. Um, you might find that she's all about the competition and just loving the competition. So, tap into what she enjoys about sports and focus on that only. In other words, allow her to grow as an athlete for the reasons why she really enjoys the competition. Thanks for your question and good luck with her game. Hey, if you want more information about how to improve your mental game, jump over to peaksports.com and first download my free report, 10 mental game errors athletes make prior to competition. And while you're there, check out the confident athletes CD and workbook program, our most popular CDs. In addition to that, check out our personal coaching programs. And if you're interested, you can sign up for a free 15minute session and I'll walk you through exactly what happens in the one-on-one coaching. Thanks.