Hi, are you unsure how to focus your best during your pre-competition warmup or do you get distracted by other competitors when you're trying to warm up? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn from Peak Performance Sports at peaksports.com. In this video, I'm going to reveal to you how to focus your best during your pre-game warmup and not get distracted. You're watching "Sessions with Doc." Here's the question that I received from Paula: Paula is an equestrian competitor and she said I have a hard time focusing fully on my warmup and my horse. I allow outside distractions to interfere with my warmup before I go into the ring. I would like to get into the zone where I am only aware of my horse and not any outside distractions including other riders or trainers. What do you think I should focus on during the warmup so I can perform my best? Paula, this is a great question. Obviously, I'm a big believer that consistent mental and physical preparation, via your warm up routine, is going to lead to consistent performance. So, if there's a lot of distractions, a lot of hoopla going on, or you're doing different things during your warm up, I don't think you're preparing yourself the best before you go into the ring. So, to have good focus, you need to define for yourself exactly what's important. What are the objectives in your routine, in that warm up routine, before you go into the ring? Now, I understand there's a lot of other horses around, there's trainers around, competitors, judges, and it's very difficult for you to stay focused. But keep in mind if you're distracted or you're anxious your horse is probably gonna be distracted as well, or feel your tension. So, it's really important for you to stay calm and focused in that warm up, considering it's an equestrian event. Now, what do I mean by defining your objectives? What is it that you're trying to do in your warm up? First of all, it's not a practice time. It's not a time to practice. You're only warming up your horse and you're warming up your skills. So don't feel like you gotta grind and analyze stuff and try to fix stuff at the last moment because that is not going to work. You simply have to go with what you have that day. All your practice is done. Now, you're ready to compete. So think of your warm up as a way for you to get mentally prepared before you go into the ring. So define those specific tasks during the warmup routine. "So, I wanna stay focused in the moment," "I want to warm up my horse," or "I want to do a couple moves that we might do in the ring just to make sure that we have them down," "I want to get mentally prepared, I want to visualize my performance and I want to be able to refocus quickly if I get distracted." And I mention that in other videos, it's super important to keep in mind that you're human, you're going to get distracted, your horse might get distracted but as long as you recognize a distraction really quickly and are able to turn it around, then are you're going to do fine in that warm up, and you'll do fine in the ring as well. Also, the most important part for me in the warmup is to be in a confident, focused, and trusting state of mind. What that means is, you want to have confidence in your ability and don't entertain any last minute doubts. In other words, don't look around at all the other competitors, all the other horses, or start making comparisons. Stay focused on what you're doing. Remember, you do that by staying focused on your objectives. So, my recommendation is develop a little routine for yourself where you're going to focus on staying in the moment, boosting your confidence, rehearsing or visualizing your routine, and preparing to trust your practice, trust in your skills that you practice. Those are the most important elements that you need to focus on during your warm up routine. Hey, if you want more information on your warm up routine focus, you might check out The Relaxed Athlete or The Focused Athlete CD and workbook program at peaksports.com. That's our most popular series that we have right now. In addition, before you leave, don't forget to subscribe to my YouTube video channel. You'll be notified when I post new videos for you and new tips. In addition, we've suggested another video for you to watch that's related to this video. Thanks! You've been watching "Sessions with Doc."