Hi, Dr Patrick Cohn with peak performance sports at peaksports.com here I'm back with another sport psychology case study which were calling mindset for sports case studies and today you're going to learn how focusing too much on mistakes can slow you down on the football field. Today's session is about an athlete that came to work with me last year, we'll call a Mike. Mike is college football player, he plays defensive back and it was a relatively new position for him so he was struggling a little bit with his decision making and also worrying about making mistakes so one of the reasons that athletes worry about making mistakes often is because they don't want to disappoint others or they don't want to embarrass themselves or they don't want to sit the bench I mean there's numerous reasons but sometimes athletes will come to me and say you know what i'm trying too hard to avoid mistakes and it's causing me to hesitate and it's causing me to slow down my performance so what exactly where the challenges that mike was having with this performance? Well, specifically he was hesitating and playing cautiously in games. So what were some of the mental game tactics that I used to help mike improve his performance on the field? Well one of the things that we talked about with Mike is that he has to trust in his skills and be able to be more decisive on the field but in order to trust in his skills he had to learn to let go of the fear of disappointing a coach or the fear of retribution from his teammates or ridicule from his teammates if he was to make a mistake so the big thing that I worked on with Mike was to really let go of what others are thinking about his performance so he could trust in his skills. The other challenge that mike was having was the fact that he wasn't being decisive out there he was paralyzed himself with this fear of making mistakes when athletes do that they tend to try and figure out what's the best play possible. Do I cover the pass? Do I cover the run? What type of play is it this so they tend to second-guess themselves along so one of the things that I did with my in this case was to help him just react and be more decisive with the skills and that's extremely important in reactive sports or fast-moving sports like hockey or football for example where you just got to go with your instincts go with your first instincts and react and that some of the things that I did help Mike improve its performance well what ultimately happened to Mike's performance? Well in the end Mike learned to react quickly on the field and be more decisive in his decision making and he wrote to me to tell me that he made all-conference and all american list in his division. So in conclusion for the wrap up if you fear making mistakes for example and you have to understand why am i fearing mistakes what's the underlying reason that I'm paralyzing myself and I'm second guessing all my decisions and there's many for athletes in this case for example there's the fear of embarrassment there's the fear of letting down teammates there's the fear of just losing the game and the fear of not meeting others expectations and that was the big challenge with Mike is he feared that he wasn't going to meet the expectations of teammates and coaches and people who were watching the game I hope that's helpful good luck with your game. Hey! If you're not performing as well in competition as you do in practice then you might need mental coaching to find out more about mental coaching click on the link on the bottom of this video you'll be taken to our one-on-one mental training programs and you can read more about the process in addition we offer a free 15 minute introductory session to learn more about the mental training process and you can take advantage of that if you're interested in doing one on one mental train now before you leave please subscribe to my videos and we've also teed up another video for you that you can watch thanks for watching sessions with Doc and I'll see you next week