 tre, we're going to talk about the Yip Cycle and what's all involved in the Yip Cycle so that you can learn how to break free. You're watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. So Brock, we talk a lot about the Yip Cycle. What starts the Yip Cycle? Yeah, so the biggest thing with the start of the Yip Cycle is making the over-controlled throw, right? It's the over-controlled throw that then leads to a very strong emotion, right? The emotion of I've failed again or the uh-oh, here we go again feeling is really common and really distracting is the I've failed again, the here we go again, the geez, I have the Yips again. Well, then it leads into the social aspect. So not only do I feel insecure, now I start looking around and I feel embarrassment. Others are seeing me fail. Well, when you combine that self-disappointment with the other disappointment from people around you, that can be a little problematic. Yeah, and I'm going to start from the perspective of, I think it really starts with just failure. What do I mean by failure? I mean not performing up to your own expectations. When you're not performing up to your expectations, that all-or-none thinking says, well, I must be failing if I'm not performing up to my expectations and thus, I'm not performing up to others' expectations. Because the funny thing is, is players will often displace or put their own expectations on others thinking that they expect the same thing. So from the Yips cycle perspective, I think it starts with just some failure because you didn't reach some expectations. You spiked the ball, for example, you missed a throw to first, you missed a throw back to the pitcher, whatever it may be, and then that really starts to catapult the Yips cycle and some of the things that you were talking about. In particular, what I want to focus on though, Brock, is this thing about over-control. What leads ball players into that over-control? Yeah, we call it the self-coaching overload. So trying to be your own pitching coach inside of your head, essentially giving you way too many tips and cues to try to focus on, when in reality, that's actually what's clogging up your head space and causing you to lock up and make that Yips-based throw. I mentioned this in the last episode, but I love the saying paralysis by analysis. You're freezing up because you're giving yourself too many things to break down. So the paralysis by analysis is giving yourself too many cues to focus on to make the throw. Well, to overcome that, simplicity, like we broken down, that's not going to come all at once. Giving our brain one to two process-based objectives to keep it occupied into the process of the throw and not the outcome of the throw. When we think about the outcome of the throw only, that's when the pressure and the expectations of needing to perform perfectly start to slip in. Yeah, and I want to throw in the idea that, I want to throw in the idea, Brock, that this over-control phenomenon really starts with the fear. In other words, there's this inner battle between the athlete and then the cognitive athlete. In other words, the fear says, whoa, Brock, you don't know what you're doing. Let me take over. I need to make sure I'm making a good throw. And when I go to make sure I'm making a good throw, what do I go to? Then certainly I go to the overthinking, the paralysis by over-analysis. So I think it's the athlete that's afraid of the outcome, has that fear, and then goes to that severe over-control and that paralysis. Absolutely. You know, most ballplayers in their attempts to find a solution, they're actually just working themselves further into a rut because they're getting away from simplicity. So our call to action for you today, if you're going through this, is to just stop. Don't make any more changes to your grip, your mechanics, your arm action. We actually want you to go back to what's worked well for you in the past and not feel like you have to search for the magic grip, perfect technique, or some brand new method to solve all of your throwing problems. Which is really hard when ballplayers are getting a lot of instruction from maybe a pitching coach or the head coach and they're telling him what to do to get better. And now they're in the throes of making changes at the same time we want them to free it up. So there's a discrepancy there, Brock, between what a coach wants them to do, like a pitching coach, for example, versus what we want them to do is to go back to a state of simplicity. How do you square that with the ballplayer? Well, that can be really challenging because when you have two different voices telling you two different things, who do I listen to? It can certainly be helpful to try to get on the same page as your pitching coach and inform them, hey, you know, I'm struggling right now with my throws. Do you think we could try to simplify a little bit? Like, hey, I'm working with a mental coach and we're working on simplifying. Can we try to make this process a little bit more digestible? Getting on the same page as your coaching staff, your pitching coach, whoever's in your camp and your small circle, it's going to really expedite this process because you don't have to feel like you have to stay in the dark and hide whatever you're thinking about every day out on the field. Yes, and we're not against making changes, but you got to be making the changes for the right reason. Often with the yips, nothing's broken and then players start to make changes for the wrong reason. Certainly in the offseason, in the summer and maybe even fall ball is a great time to improve your pitching mechanics. But if you're making changes because of the yips, that's probably not the right reason. All right, Brock, thanks for the great tips today. You've been watching the Sports Psychology Podcast. For more information about yips coaching, jump over to peaksports.com. Thanks.