Do you feel like you or your athletes lack mental toughness in sports? Hi, I'm Dr. Patrick Cohn, in this video I'm going to talk about what is mental toughness and what are the mental skills that are included in being a mentally tough athlete. You're watching sessions with Doc, unscripted and unrehearsed answers to your mental game questions. So what is mental toughness? I get this question a lot from my MGCPs from athletes from parents, I look at mental toughness as really a catch-all phrase. A mental toughness is kind of like having a strong mental game overall if you have a strong mental game then you have a lot of positive qualities to your mindset essentially. So mental toughness really is the ability to number one take your practice game to competition consistently and obviously not choke in addition mental toughness is about being able to perform at the level that you're capable of in competition. So what are the mental skills that may be included under this umbrella of mental toughness? Well first of all you have to have confidence and what I mean by that is you have a stable level of confidence the confidence stays that a steady state and it doesn't go up and down depending upon what's happening during the competition or even in your warm-up. Secondly, you have a complete level of focus on the task at hand in other words you have the ability to immerse yourself into the moment and get into that zone that helps you perform your best. In addition to that you stay composed in other words when you make mistakes you don't flip out, get aggravated, get frustrated, or tank the game away for example. So mental toughness also includes that ability to make mistakes. Now there's another kind of hidden level of mental toughness I think that we need to talk about beyond the basic mental skills and that's being able to prepare yourself for adversity. When adversity strikes for example your equipment breaks or you get injured temporarily in the game or your opponent starts cheating for example it's the ability to handle that and know what to do in that situation. We call it the ability to anticipate challenges and be able to cope with those challenges. So you can't really point your finger at what one thing is of mental toughness it's everything that we do in the mental game that makes athletes mentally tough from being confident, focused, trust in your skills, staying composed after mistakes, being able to deal with adversity, being able to communicate well with your teammates if you're on a team, being able to handle setbacks, being able to battle back when you're down in a game or in a match for example. All those qualities go into this concept of being a mentally tough athlete. If you want to learn more go ahead and check out my website peaksports.com and be sure to subscribe to my videos using this button up here and when we have new videos available you'll be notified and we've suggested another video for you to watch in this series. This is Dr. Patrick Cohn with sessions for Doc, unscripted and unrehearsed answers to your mental game questions.