 Have you ever heard someone say they had music in their bones? Well, if you were living in the USSR, post-World War II, and that person was a fan of, say, jazz, that person could have said they had music written on their bones. Or at least written onto X-rays of a complete stranger's bones, cut into a disc, and carved to resemble a very floppy record. This was bone music. And while it might not be the next vintage tech audio files are racing to listen to, the story behind it is pretty darn cool. [♪ INTRO MUSIC PLAYING!] Life under Joseph Stalin's regime wasn't exactly chill. Before, during, and after World War II, the Soviet government leaned heavily on censorship of all sorts and banned evermore kinds of music. But human beings love music. It's a huge part of who we are, so Soviet citizens were not willing to give it up, even under the threat of imprisonment. In those days, the music recording technology de jure was aptly named record, which, if you think about it for more than a moment, is kind of an amazing scientific achievement. Humans have been living on Earth for hundreds of thousands of years, making every kind of noise from annoyed groans to orchestral symphonies. But unless you were born within the past 150 years or so, your only option to hear any of it was to hear it live. The first part of making a record involves finding a way to copy down sound waves into a physical medium. That's relatively straightforward, because sound waves are physical waves that move through the air and interact with objects. They are literally ripples in the air that our brains interpret as noise. In fact, the oldest known recording of a human voice, uncovered back in 2008, was only meant to get recorded, not played back. The sound waves were copied on soot-covered paper using a piece of technology called a phonograph, invented by Edward Leon Scott de Martinville in 1857. It's a man singing Eau Claire de Lelune, recorded in 1860. That's 17 years before Thomas Edison created the phonograph and recorded Mary Had a Little Lamb. Both recording devices featured a diaphragm, a thin, flexible membrane like a human eardrum that would wiggle back and forth as sound waves smacked into it. Attached to that diaphragm was a long, thin stylus of sorts that would actually do the recording. In Edison's case, it was a needle scratching up and leaving grooves in a roll of tinfoil. Unlike de Martinville's phonograph, the phonograph was also capable of playing a recording back to you. It had a separate diaphragm and stylus set up for playback, which would read the wiggles carved into the tinfoil and reproduce an approximation of the original sound. High fidelity, this tinfoil track was not. But over the decades, inventors continued to iterate, tweaking the basic setup we'd seen with the phonograph to create new music playing equipment. For example, early graphophones replaced the tin-coated cylinder with a wax one, which was less temperamental. They also eventually swapped cylinders for flat discs. If nothing else, this allowed records to be mass produced, because you could just press a bunch of copies based on one original master recording. But it also allowed for perks like, hey, we can record on both sides of this thing. By the time we got to the record player, we'd finally thrown speakers into the mix, instead of a simple, if fancy-looking, horn to amplify the sounds being wiggled out. And then, in World War II, record technology took maybe the most important leap forward. It stopped relying on bugs. But before I can clarify, we've gotta take an ad break. This SciShow video is supported by DeleteMe, the hands-free subscription service that removes your personal information from hundreds of data broker and people search sites. Our executive producer, Nicole, can vouch for the quick sign-up. It took less than 10 minutes to sign up and enter her information and get the process going, and the dashboard is super easy to understand. They've already found over 900 records and are working on removing them. Unlike other services, DeleteMe verifies your data is on data broker sites before submitting removal requests, reducing the risk of unnecessary data exposure. And then they keep going. DeleteMe continuously removes your data throughout your plan period. They don't just do one sweep and leave you on your own. The real people behind DeleteMe are there for your custom requests and help when you need it. And they don't outsource to third parties, so your data stays safe. Just use the QR code on screen or go to joindeleteme.com slash SciShow and use promo code SciShow at checkout. You'll get 20% off DeleteMe US consumer plans. Originally, records were made of a material called shellac, a substance made from the secretions of lac bugs. But when another world war broke out, shellac was set aside for military use. Music makers had to find something else to make their records out of. And eventually, they settled on plastic, which was both more durable than shellac and better at preserving the sound quality. It was also way more common than shellac, which meant it was easier for regular people to make their own records. And even though it was pretty illegal in the Soviet Union in the 40s and 50s, there were a few people who were absolutely taking advantage of this and making bootleg records. This includes a Polish man named Stanislav Filo, whose life of crime was aided by a recording lathe he'd smuggled into the USSR from Germany. A recording lathe is basically a reverse record player. You put a blank disc on a spinning plate, and an arm with a small needle on the end creates grooves in the disc as you play sound through the lathe. Officially, Filo used the machine so people could make souvenir recordings of their own voices. But he also collected a good number of customers by reproducing music for them under cover of night. One of those music-loving customers was Ruslan Bogoslavsky, and Filo's lathe sparked within him a plan for illegal shenanigans of his own. Over many days of hanging around Filo's shop, Bogoslavsky measured the lathe and learned how it worked, and he teamed up with fellow music-lover Boris Tygan to build their own recording machine. After that, the two men just needed records to etch. Obviously, they couldn't buy blank records without getting busted, so they needed a steady supply of substitute material—some kind of thin, carvable plastic that they could take without making anyone suspicious. And weirdly, the same regime that banned music gave them a hand. Right around the time they were doing all their music censoring, the Soviet government also passed a law requiring hospitals to dispose of all x-rays after one year, on account of them being a serious fire hazard. See, back in the day, x-ray film was made of a plastic called celluloid, which was made with the compound nitrocellulose. And nitrocellulose is horrifically flammable. It burns hot and fast, and you basically cannot put this stuff out. It will even burn underwater! So Bogoslavsky and Tygan started collecting all this used x-ray film from hospitals, cutting out a bunch of single, song-sized circles, sometimes burning the hole in the middle out with a cigarette, and using their makeshift lathe to carve illegal music into them. Wait, did I just read that they were burning holes into nitrocellulose? Where is OSHA when you need them? Compared to the plastic that actual records were made of, bone music records were definitely thinner. A standard record is about 1.5mm thick. Celluloid film was around a quarter of a millimeter thick. That thinness made them really easy to smuggle. Dealers could carry 50 or so at a time, up their sleeves or in their coat. Unfortunately, it also meant each record could only play a few times before suffering too much damage. And because you couldn't carve the sound waves too deeply into the film, the sound quality was terrible. But it was music, and sometimes that's enough. It's such an inspiring story that decades later, at least one company has tried to replicate these records, carving music into x-rays of their own, presumably the not super flammable kind. But unlike the people who are super into vinyl, you probably won't find anyone arguing that they sound better than Spotify. [♪ OUTRO MUSIC PLAYING-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM-BREAKING-FILM