 Hi, I'm Hank Green, and I'm addicted to social media. Or maybe I have a social media use disorder? Whatever you call it, I have a relationship with social media that is not positive. And yes, social media is addictive. But like any addiction, it's not my fault. Social media is designed to hack my internal reward system and get me to check in pretty much constantly. Researchers know that social media and our brains have a messy relationship. But if you can stay away from it long enough to watch this video, you will at least know how that relationship works and how those researchers suggest we can improve it. [♪ INTRO MUSIC PLAYING...] When I post something on Instagram or YouTube or even LinkedIn, I'll admit I'm chasing that high of the all-important like. The human brain loves likes because they activate the same pathways as seeing money hit your bank account on payday and hearing a compliment from a friend. It feels good to get people's tiny digital hearts or thumbs up or whatever they use on LinkedIn. But likes aren't just a one-way street. It turns out, when you give someone else's post a like, that also activates some of the same brain bits. This is according to a study published in 2018, which featured 58 young people getting their brains scanned by an MRI machine while they participated in a social media experiment. To help control this experiment, the researchers designed a sort of fake version of Instagram for the participants to use. While inside the MRI, participants scrolled and liked photos at will, and then after they got out, they rated the photos that they had just seen on a seven-point scale. Once the researchers did all their fancy stats, they were able to show that if you take an MRI image of someone's brain and know that someone is looking at a picture on fake Instagram, you can accurately predict how much they actually liked that picture. So there is some defined neural activity associated with liking Instagram photo. And this activity is similar to what we know happens in your brain when you engage in other rewarding behaviors, like accomplishing a goal or eating your favorite snack. But social media can have more power than merely tickling your reward centers. The way you engage with it can also change your brain's reward pathways in addictive ways. It's called social networking site addiction, and it involves dependence, withdrawal, relapse, tolerance, and other addictive responses. People who are addicted to social media obsessively use these sites to the point that it gets in the way of the rest of their lives. It has a lot in common with other addictions, although you might not have heard of it, in part because not all experts agree it's a thing. But a solid portion of them use this terminology, and some experts even say up to 10.9% of the world's population has this addiction. Pretty much any addiction, be it alcohol, opioids, gambling, or social media, has a similar appearance in your brain, especially in your amygdala, which regulates emotions, impulses, and your expectations of reward. But according to a paper published in 2017, people with social networking site addictions actually have less gray matter in their amygdalas, meaning there aren't as many neurons controlling those processes. However, it is worth noting this conclusion came from a very small MRI study of 20 people aged 18 to 23. The authors of that study even hinted that someone else should really come along and replicate their results with a larger sample size. But their initial results do suggest the more addictive symptoms a person has, the more they use sites like Facebook, which honestly is not at all surprising, but unsurprising science needs to get published too. Also, their work suggests if you are in that high-use group, your brain might process rewards differently from your peers, and this has been confirmed by at least one other study with a much larger population. In a longitudinal study published in 2023, 169 middle-schoolers participated in a three-year-long social feedback experiment. So technically, not all of them were middle-schoolers by the end of it. In addition to annual brain scans, these students were also asked how much time they spent on social media. And sure, self-reporting is less reliable than if an app were installed on the kids' phones to actually gather that data. But for the purposes of this study, the researchers didn't need their every move tracked. A general concept of their social media use was enough. Just under half of the students said that they used social media almost constantly, and 78% of them reported checking at least every hour. While researchers compared the brains of students who used social media less frequently against students who used it a lot, they could see differences in the regions that help anticipate and respond to social rewards, control cognition, and more. Now, the results of this study could mean that if you habitually check social media, your brain might look different from that of someone who doesn't. But even if that's true, it doesn't automatically mean Instagram is actually changing your brain. You might be hacking your brain by taking advantage of the way you already engage with rewards. Classic chicken or egg situation that associations and studies like these can't parse out. But experts generally agree that social media is addictive and high use is associated with altered reward processing. And speaking of rewards, you may think that checking your notifications nonstop and scrolling and liking and liking and scrolling all day doesn't even feel rewarding. And that might be because social media may, in fact, promote negative interactions instead of positive ones. But before I tell you about the data that brought us to that conclusion, here's a quick ad. You saw them? These days, we're filming stuff about two months ahead of time. And sometimes we end up holding onto a fully finished episode for six months. This makes it difficult to both place names in videos and attribute specific graphics the way that we used to. Plus, there are only so many graphics that we can sponsor in a given episode. So we are changing how this Patreon tier works. You can find more info about that change at patreon.com. Sorry it took us so long to realize a change needed to be made. And to make it up to everyone who is subscribed at this tier, I will now read all of your names out loud. In a study published in 2025, a group of 30 young adults were asked to quickly choose to either avoid reading a negative comment, or read a positive comment on a series of Instagram posts. It was a similarly deceptive study to the first study where people thought strangers were commenting on their own photos. The participants were just either looking at or avoiding comments that they were told ahead of time would be either positive or negative. And while they did that, researchers measured how their brain reward centers responded. The study concluded that we get more reward from receiving a comment about us, even if it is a negative comment, than we get from no comment at all. Which means we're not going to try to avoid negative interactions online. But important to note, in neuroscience spaces, a reward doesn't have to include any good feelings. It's just something that makes your brain want to come back for more. I probably don't need to tell you this, but that's not exactly great for the whole mental health thing. And it is a good reason to have people maybe overseeing these platforms so we don't end up spiraling into a doom scroll every hour. But yeah, about that, the algorithms are also hacking your brain, whether or not you include the bots and corporations trying to manipulate your social media experience. Algorithms do have a purpose, of course. They show us a sample of the impossible to keep up with deluge of social media posts. But unfortunately, algorithms also use our existing biases to keep us engaged, which can spread misinformation and conflict. Which I'm sure you've never seen any of on the internet. Compared to the algorithms behind, say, boring old search engines, social media algorithms are biased more towards stuff you already agree with. That deliver reward to you, and the stuff everyone else is engaging with. The problem isn't just what we're seeing, it's also what we're spreading. When we get a ton of one kind of information in our feeds, we predictably end up making our own posts and comments about that information. And it spreads, and it spreads, and it spreads. A 2024 paper, looking at both Facebook and Twitter, because the data were collected before X happened, found that outrageous headlines are, of course, more likely to be shared without the article being read first. So sometimes whatever you're sharing is legit, and sometimes it's misinformation. But you wouldn't know which, because you didn't bother to check. And as of the filming of this video, the threat of spreading misinformation is particularly dangerous, because we are still not perfect at distinguishing reality from stuff like deepfakes. Deepfakes refer to videos that are manipulated to make it look like someone said something they did not, or a person who wasn't there was undermining what used to be a gold standard of real versus fake. In a paper published back in 2021, when about 15,000 participants looked at a selection of deepfake videos and real ones, they could accurately identify deepfakes 57% of the time, and real videos 75% of the time. You can probably guess it's gotten harder since then. In addition, the more videos participants saw, the more likely they were to think the next one was a deepfake. In other words, while they did technically get better at identifying deepfakes, they also got worse at identifying real videos. And when you can't trust what you see with your own eyes, the concept of brain hacking feels a little more real. Now, I've covered a lot of ways that social media is hacking your brain in this video, but according to our analytics, you're probably an adult, and social media is influencing someone even more than you, adolescents. According to a 2024 paper that looked at MRI data from adolescents and adults up to age 24, likes activate the emotion center of your brain. But while adults ended the experiment in a more positive mood than when they started, the adolescents ended in a worse mood. Researchers propose this is because adolescents react more strongly than adults to the variation in likes across posts, which includes feeling more bummed when your post gets fewer likes. Meanwhile, a different fMRI study found that compared to adults, adolescents are more likely to like a photo that already has a lot of likes, even if it's a photo of a stranger, and even if they're engaging in risky behaviors like drinking and smoking. When these participants looked at a neutral photo, the visual center of their brain was active. They were looking at something, so that's not very surprising. But when they looked at a photo of risky behavior with a bunch of likes, there was significantly more activity in a part of the brain known for imitation, as well as a lot less activation of the impulse control centers. Well, these researchers didn't check to see if participants actually changed their behavior after scrolling through the photos. So we definitely can't say that looking at a bunch of pictures of people drinking alcohol makes your kids start drinking alcohol. But the way their brains responded isn't necessarily what a concerned guardian would hope for. At the end of the day, it is social media, and your experience on these platforms really is influenced by your peers. Even if that peer is just someone I follow who started posting about a new show that they're obsessed with on their Tumblr, and now I have to go illegally stream the pilot. It's probably no surprise that adolescents are particularly vulnerable to this effect. But we don't have to let this continue this way forever. One proposed solution is to redesign the algorithms to suppress biased topics, rather than promote them. Or just put you in control of your own feed. Something as simple as increasing transparency around this mysterious algorithm could help, too. Such as an explanation for why a certain post was promoted in your feed. But that's not really stuff you have control over. Researchers also suggest that if you've got a youth or 30 of them under your care, you could set up a peer-led support group for social media use, introduce media and tech literacy classes into your curriculum, and foster non-media-based social interactions. It takes work to get through any addiction. But with helpful community and resources, you may be able to use sites like Instagram in a more positive way. And since you are currently not on Instagram, you can go ahead and like this video. Because that will make me feel good.