 organ transplant waiting lists are a race against the clock. Patients on kidney transplant wait lists have to hold out for an average of more than three years. On top of all this, organ transplants need the immune system's seal of approval to be accepted by the body. And the immune system is extremely picky. But for patients who need a kidney ASAP, scientists might have found a way to safely circumvent the body's overzealous security system, and it is by changing their blood type. Yeah, kidneys have blood types. And here's how and why this might work. [♪ INTRO MUSIC PLAYING...] In 2019, 40% of end-stage kidney disease patients died within three years of starting dialysis, and only 11% could be added to transplant wait lists. Finding enough donor organs is complicated, and supply and demand isn't the only problem. Doctors need to consider the possibility of the immune system rejecting a transplant. The immune system is like the body's bouncers. At its core is a type of cell called a B cell, which generates antibodies. These are highly specialized proteins that can attach to markers called antigens on the surface of invading cells. This helps the body distinguish non-self from self, and take out, say, a cold virus as soon as it makes its way into your nose. Once the antibodies grab onto an invader, they can call in backup, including other immune cells, to take on the intruder. The system works across all types of biological material that enters the body — viruses, bacteria, parasites, even blood. Now, you might, maybe, be used to thinking of other antigens as responsible for organ rejection, like the major histocompatibility complex, or MHC, markers that make it incredibly hard to match donors with recipients. But our organs also express blood group antigens on their cells — the A, B, and O that you're probably familiar with. And if you have blood group A, you can't get a kidney from someone with blood group B any more than you can get their blood. Blood types are dictated by sugar chains on the surface of our cells, both blood and tissue. Cells can express sugar chains dubbed A or B, or they can also express both chains, making them type AB, or neither chain, making them type O. The type of antigen is dictated by genetics, and people generally have antibodies against the types their cells don't express. But there is one way to not be recognized by those antibodies, and it's to not have any A or B sugar chains — that is, to be type O. This is one way scientists have tried getting around the limitation of not having a fully compatible transplant organ. By removing the cell's blood group antigens, scientists can basically make everything type O. And this has some extra perks. First, blood type O is the most common blood type, and the demand for type O donor organs is high across all blood groups, not just O. That's why type O is considered the universal donor, since O blood cells can go to any other blood type. Second, type O also has the pickiest immune system, treating both A and B antigens as invaders. So disguising as type O, which lacks both antigens, lets the organ go stealth mode, unnoticed by pretty much everyone. This also gets around some of the issues involved in immunosuppression. Doctors can suppress the immune system for major procedures, telling the immune cells to take a nap while the body is healing. And this can lower the risk of transplant rejection. But along with the benefit of limiting the patient's antibodies against transplanted cells, it has the cost of limiting the immune system's ability to recognize real threats, too. If, instead of suppressing the immune system, we could disguise the transplant cells that we've already vetted, patients could have the benefits of transplant without sacrificing immunity. And that may be possible, but before we talk about it, let's go to a quick ad break. Thanks to CuriosityBox for supporting this SciShow video. Each CuriosityBox is full of wonders, puzzles, and peculiarities, like the Orary Calendar. This Page Day calendar shows you the positions of the planets and moon phases in both hemispheres throughout the year. With your daily guide to the solar system, you can compare Mercury's and Saturn's journeys around the sun. Or you can set your sights on your own planet with Airdapfel coasters. These 12 coasters come together to form a dodecahedral replica of the oldest surviving globe, complete with mythical islands and geographic knowledge from the 1490s. It's a year of Curiosity delivered in one box. You'll get 40% off the first box with code SCI40 for the next week. And CuriosityBox is offering free dennery dice to all new subscribers. In a paper published in 2025, scientists were able to use this principle to modify the blood type of kidneys for a transplant. The transplant was done on a brain-dead patient with consent from their family, using blood type A kidneys with a type O recipient. In this case, the doctors used a specific enzyme to pop off the type A antigen on the kidney cells before doing the transplant, making the transplanted organs basically type O for a while. For about two days, that is, since the kidney cells still had the genes to make type A antigens, they started replacing them fairly quickly. But even though the transplant was ultimately rejected, this was a step in the right direction. Now that we know the transplant process can work, if scientists can extend the time that a transplant goes undetected for a couple of weeks, the chances of success increase greatly. That's because sometimes even incompatible transplants can reach a sort of truce with the recipient's immune system in a process called accommodation. Even if the organ is under attack from antibodies, it may be resilient enough to resist failing completely. As the organ is still standing after a few weeks, chances of rejection are way lower. As this research progresses, disguising a transplant organ's blood type as O could expand the donor pool. You'd still have to deal with all the other mismatches, but blood groups could become a non-issue. Scientists have also used cells and tissues from non-human animals, modified to be compatible with humans in transplants. This idea, called xenografting or xenotransplanting, is surprisingly old with recorded xenograft attempts as far back as the 1800s. But things have improved a lot since then. Another 2025 study claimed to sustain a gene-edited pig kidney in a brain-dead human patient for two full months. Xenotransplants like this could make the donor pool even bigger to meet patient demand. This is especially true with growing knowledge of what edits to genes and antigens we need to make, and new ways to make them. In medical research, the path from proof of concept to practice is a long road full of replication, confirmation, and safety checks, as it should be when there are lives on the line. But even if it's still early, transplant work with kidneys is promising, and this principle can be applied to other organs, too. Blood type incompatible transplants and related studies are being done with liver and lung tissue, among others, though each comes with its own unique challenges. But this is a pretty amazing and surprisingly simple way to expand access to transplants, which really drives home the idea of the universal donor.