 Thumbnails are super important, guys. And I'm not talking about the ones that entice you to click on our videos. I'm talking about these thumbnails. Because when you're an animal with thumbs, sometimes claws just won't do. And some animals only have nails on their thumbs, because they're just that helpful. But exactly how you and I started growing thumbnails, or any nails, really, is still a mystery. So let's dive into what scientists have uncovered so far. BALL RUMBLE Let's start with a bit of nail 101. The Latin name for a nail is an ungula. Not to be confused with ungwis, the general term for any kind of thing protruding out of digits. Claw, hoof, nail, etc. And claws, nails, and hooves do all share some basic parts. For example, they all contain a protein called keratin, which gives them their toughness. But nails are unique because they feature a flat plate of keratinized skin that sits on top of the digit, and then just kind of juts out from there. Hoves are a little special in their own way, because most of the animal's weight is bearing down on them. Because of that, the plate grows at an angle and wraps around most of the tip of the digit. It also means the keratinized bit has to be a bit thicker. And claws? Well, if you've ever been unfortunate enough to be at the receiving end of a cat swipe, you'll know they're longer and more compressed than nails. For the purpose of this video, we're going to stick to just nails and claws, which, thanks to their different forms, are better suited for different tasks. For example, since they're pointy, claws are great for grabbing a thing and helping that thing rest in the hand. Or paw. Whatever. If you're a predator, that thing might be prey. If you're something like a sloth, it could be a fat bark-covered tree branch. But nails might be a better option if you want to be stealthy. Why let claws loudly scratch up that tree branch, risking your prey hearing you before you're close enough to strike when you can evolve much quieter nails. And speaking of branches, if the ones you keep reaching for are so slim that you can wrap your digits around them, then claws are a pain in the butt because they'll dig into your palm. Or should I say pain in the leg because Hank keeps telling me that butt is legs? Whether or not what I just said has got you curling your own fingers into your palm right now, try touching something with your fingertip. Our nails can also help make our fingertips more sensitive because they give the skin under the nail something to push against. This extra sensitivity also makes handling and manipulating small objects easier. But let's get back to these guys. You probably already have an inkling that a thumb digit, also known as the Paulex, is super handy, especially an opposable one. But it turns out some animals might get similar benefits from having just the thumb nail. In 2025, a team of scientists retraced the evolution of thumbnails in one very particular, but also very massive, animal group, rodents. If it surprises you to learn that rodents have thumbnails, you wouldn't be alone. Even other scientists have kind of dismissed the rodent thumbnail as a vestigial or non-functional unguess. And that's partially because the rest of their digits end in claws. It'd be weird to have one unguess for all of your fingers and a different unguess for just your thumbs, right? Well, this research team dove into the Field Museum's massive collection of rodent skins and looked at 433 different genus groups to catalog which rodents actually had thumbnails. They also noted where all these rodents preferred to live, like in trees or underground, as well as whether they used their mouths or hands to handle food. From there, the team could reconstruct a family tree to see when and how thumbnails popped up in evolutionary history. It turns out a whopping 86% of rodents have thumbnails, at least of the ones sampled, but they all likely share a thumbnail-wielding common ancestor. As the descendants of that ancestor evolved into the many different species we see today, sometimes that thumbnail turned into a claw, and sometimes it was just lost altogether. After all, sometimes thumbnails might be less helpful than a couple more claws. For example, most rodents with thumb claws live below ground where they'd need to dig. But there are a ton of rodent species, from squirrels to beavers to everyone's favorite, the capybara. They're the most abundant kind of mammal, found in all sorts of habitats around the world, and according to this research team, thumbnails may have had a part to play in that. Specifically because they provided access to a super exclusive food source. Nuts are chock-full of energy, but getting at that energy is a challenge. Opening and eating them requires a good amount of dexterity. So if you evolve yourself some thumbnails to improve your dexterity, you might be able to access nutrients your neighbors can't. And if you're hankering for some nutrients right now, it's a great time to grab some, because it's time for an ad break. This SciShow video is supported by DeleteMe, the hands-free subscription service that removes your personal information from hundreds of data broker and people search sites. DeleteMe works to keep your personal information personal and reduce your risk of identity theft, scams, phishing attempts, harassment, and doxing. And not just your info. DeleteMe has been the leading expert in personally identifiable information removal for over 15 years and was recently named the number one data removal service by Wirecutter. So lots of people trust them. Like our executive producer Nicole, who just signed up. And she said they got to work removing her info super quickly. They've already reviewed over 900 records and began removing them. Plus, these privacy advisors are real people available for custom requests and help when you need it. Just use the QR code on screen or go to joindeleteme.com slash SciShow and use promo code SciShow at checkout. You'll get 20% off DeleteMe US consumer plans. All right, so Rodents probably started out with digits, rocking mostly claws and two thumbnails. But what about primates? What about me? Did humanity also start out with just one thumbnail on each hand and then somewhere along the line swap everything else to match? Well, it's complicated. Like many of our Rodent friends, many living primates also have an odd one out digit. Although in our case, that digit is on our hind feet, which for primates with actual hands are just called feet. That arrangement might sound weird to a human because all our digits have nails. But some New World monkeys only have nails on each big toe, aka the halux. The rest are claws. Meanwhile, Madagascan lemurs are rocking kind of the opposite setup. Most digits on their hind feet end in a nail, but the toe next to each halux has a specialized claw. They use it for cleaning themselves, so humans call it a grooming claw. So what did the ancestor of all primates have? And how did humanity's oops, all nails come about? We don't know. One hypothesis says primates started out with mostly claws, which came in a variety of shapes and helped us scurry up thick tree branches. Then as they started to use their palms more for moving objects around and eventually using tools, those claws broadened and flattened into nails. However, in a paper published back in 1999, one research group concluded the ancestor to modern primates had already lost all its claws except for the grooming claw. They argued that early primates probably lost the deepest, hardest layer of their claws, which meant the claws were less strong and the tips could be worn away as primates moved around more on the ground. Then in 2018, a paper building off that work tackled the evolution of the grooming claw. The study looked at animals called omomaiids, a group of early primates that kind of looked like a mix between lemurs and terseers. Researchers think that very early primates evolved more developed big toes, specifically big toes that could help them climb more easily. Their second toes were freed up for other uses. And since keeping parasites off yourself is a good way to stay healthy, grooming claws may have been one of those other uses. So around 56 million years ago, our ancestors were probably rockin' nails and one claw. Then as some primates became more social and could groom each other, they swapped that claw for another nail. And if you're something like a TT monkey, you became too solitary and had to re-evolve a grooming claw so that you could DIY. So scientists have these sort of snapshots of what primate claws or nails looked like at different times, but it's still not clear exactly how or even really when we went from a diversity of claws to potentially just a grooming claw to the nails we have today. For now, the best idea we have is that somehow claws became a disadvantage, either because our ancestors weren't climbing thick tree trunks or we're spending more time on the ground. We might not know exactly how our thumbnails evolved, but if you want to check out the evolution of SciShow's thumbnails, you can go explore that for yourself.