To get the lives People are waiting in the comments And they're about to go like They already live in campus Yes And what is this machine? This one is going to Bring collect all the audios from the mic Guess mic all the cameras all into one So we can switch How lot they got to be to come We can put equalizers and then Bring them up To work the audience get here And then these cameras They stay here like they never move This one move This one moves the right now It's going to record shorts for us Oh, okay Guys, we got to get it And then this one is one slide And then we got these lights You know right now we got four cameras Roy one slider And two big Trader the Filming lights And this record short Where is the audio coming from near to Oh, shit So this is not going live This one is just for a like short For a content Got this Got this you got this You got this from my arms There's a mirror Yeah Let's go All right Got the start to pod You feel me Okay Explain the difference Between macaron And micro economics In the voice of rapper Ludovris All right Listen up And that craicinabix is the big dog Dealing with whole economies Think of it as the grand hustle Covered GDP Unemployment and inflation across the nation It's like watching the whole rap game from the top Now micro economics That's the street view lady It breaks it down to clean the visual play It's people Businesses and industries How they make choices How they stack in their people And what they span is all about the grand I name but appreciate that Let's go I see you tomorrow All right Friday The weekend of life I didn't Film the morning Because it was boring just a bunch of meetings I did ask the meetings We'll sell them as soon as we have like a higher level program And I met with some of them earlier My Those are some clips at X Now we've got the film Well, bunch of content They too a content film All right got the homie knee Me here Get the lights set up Maybe we can It might be helpful if they saw the setup So this is for like shorts Reels and ticked dot What kind of light is this? This is the aperture Uh, the 200x Aperture 300x So they're the one we could make Like a temperature wave On the wide range Use the Yeah, the mesh on it We make sure the light is on your needle You have the 60mm lens G, uh, it's the Sony GM And it's sort of the top of the line More one point four Uh, it's get that amazing Sheldorf field Rolled mine It's a prime lens, right So it's only 50mm Brandon Carter's favorites I don't like being shot anything in other cities Because 50mm looks like you really look Yeah Other Other focal lengths can distort the way you look So you look smaller with smaller focal lengths But 50 is the most match The way you don't want them up boys He lives the easy watch dealer Yes, he lives in my village So he's going to bring some heavy hit or watch Watch because watch content does good Oh, you're good You know like these are popular Like the Bruce Wayne Oh, this is no Sir little dad just the old p Everybody loves mommy TTnt by light to root beard I got this one and I brought this Where does my game go? Yea But I'm always like stuff do like like as always a rotation you know, you can even do stuff You know, yeah That's a good thing I was gonna check you everything and like you know, I did my my guy why I said Yeah, you know, I saw a video Yeah, but you said every time like you just videos We both just get sliced sales. Oh, okay, Jim. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah Oh, yeah, yeah, oh, yeah saw a video came into this and well came to stop and bought our our I don't know what going But yeah, yeah, oh, although the green face tool. Mm-hmm. Well, I feel like this is like more This dude with the car rub here. Yeah, it's a really weird man on the rub here And this one's cool. Then it's the blue face on jubilee tree popular. Oh, the sky. Yeah, it's like super far. It's just part of it But it was cooler. Yeah, you gotta get it for the sky. Yeah I saw we got done filming we got the nails we got to go to my boy Jeremy's house. He's having a dinner Cuz he's doing a big mastermind of moral speaking to some speakers out there at nine before and up film over there had dinner And probably must spin the night there because it's like two hours away All right, last night came what we were we at dinner. I've got them blooded, but uh It was dinner with the homies some of the speakers who are speaking tonight at Jeremy's massive rock I've been up for hours. She's still asleep on girl. We stayed at Jeremy's house. She's still asleep Must be nice I'm ashamed of something. We're gonna be doing our fit So Jeremy's so me of here Streep for me Got this big as hell step as mastermind So I should be interested as people Jerry's backyard About to do a podcast with the homie Max Back to vlogging. I see every get us in up. He's out. I wore I wore yellow and he wore yellow Ween even though man. It's like it's like we're like we a boy band Shit All right, just did the podcast with the homie Max Yo, was that the best or the greatest podcast was the fucking 10 out of 10 millennial Millennium Falcon oh yeah, I don't even know the star was references Yeah, no, no, I'm not a nerd She's not one can talk about this if he gave the family she does things like and well And they're all getting all our surprises Not anyway, we're not really gonna let's give it up this brand All right, yeah, so Jeremy will be talking about It's you So the four pillars But this Our first it's kind just Oh also How other my hand right here is bed I'm still working do I have Maybe Really. Much of, yeah.irsiniz, everybody, you need seven dollars, and the dollars are. And I just then told myself, give me $1.17 ideology now. Freshm us loaise rolls from a man which I think you'll be coming. I thought freshs rolls rolls. Ha ha ha ha. All right so we just came back Jeremy gave me guitar. They in a they won no more it's like a 6,000 dollar guitar So I got to play This is the fender custom shop. It's art. It came like this relic. I'll be there. We're played Yeah, what up guys so today was Sunday and I didn't really do anything today I kind of just worked all day. I spent all day working out my computer super boring So I didn't really film it. I'm gonna watch some football and go to sleep early wake up early on Monday and get to it Basically what a week is like so I didn't rest today They was just boring. All I did was go to the gym and Work for about 12 hours have my computer But anyway, man that's basically what a week is like that's a basic week unless I'm spending time with my son. I go visit him about two or three times a week I spent time with him. I've tried to stay healers in and kick it with him But when I'm in my amy this is what a week's light listen man I love what I do. I love the lifestyle and I wouldn't be able to live this lifestyle It had a night started online training That was my first business. I made my first million dollars and now I teach other people how to grow their own life in this business To you want to learn how you can start or grow your own life in this business and you start moving down the path of living this kind of lifestyle That little the free book 10 commembs of online training It is sure you exactly had to grow your own life in this business even if you don't have a big following Even if you're not certified even if you don't have a lot of experience It won't work if you lazy, right? But if you somebody's going to work hard to come sick. Oh, this book will set you on the right path to a contest that 100% free Lee in the description. Hi, let's y'all peace You

I haven't done a video like this long time, but I decided I'm going to do a full day of eating video so he's a state-writ in my fort. I've been up for a while. My first meals won't be too cold as I started eating. And some water probably has some green tea as well. Now I'm going to drink this much of green tea. It's like, guess I'm like mushrooms in it as well. Like lions, main mushrooms. Good for energy. It's a much shit. Alright, so I just got done getting some work done in my battle station. Now about to go to the gym. I eat these bars, these keto bars, they usually call a keto bars, but not a call a college and bars, same shit though, is by perfect keto. Basically, just something light before the gym, 11 grams of protein, 3 net carbs, but different tastes to eat at any expensive job. Also before I go to the gym, I'm going to drink this LMNT. Get a little some of them electrolytes with some arborwah. Alright, now I know I made videos on my, don't cook, but I've been cooking breakfast. I got this shit. Well, Amazon, it makes the eggs perfect. And it's just quicker. It's just fancy. Oh, let me, you want to see my fridge? It's the fridge. I ate a lot of food in here because I eat almost at the time, but I got these eggs that I'm got to eat. I got a lot of liquids, a lot of water. I like water out the can, but I'll drink water out the bottle. Diet Coke, I drink a night caffeine free. Coke zero on, but I have somebody's now, green tea. I've been drinking protein, non dairy. Just experiment with some non dairy. I want you to think I'm soft, though, because I got this vegan protein. I will steal my milk when you want to. A lot of sales is, this is my girlfriend's because she drinks sugar, ginger ale, she drinks sugar, she drinks alcohol, that's her. Probably this sinmedish it all the time. I kind of just give it a guess, it's fine, and then we're on with it. Lots of sauces, hot sauce, salad dressing, ketchup, barps sauce, this that shit, sweet baby raised, I got it upside down, so it goes to the bottom, but this is the no sugar add-ups. That's my shit. You know what the rest of the shit is, my girls, you know, I have to see how you drink the shit. All men milk. My girl got this all men milk. All men milk is a scam. They should call this shit all men juice. All right, milk, that's the comfort of a titty. Everybody knows that, everybody knows that milk has to come from a titty. This should be called almond juice. First you spray some Pam spray or some shit like that on the pans, and then you just dump the eggs in there. Then you put the covers on them and throw them in the microwave. Four minutes in the microwave. If you're doing six, if you're cooking less, less than six, you can put them in for less time. All right, so here's my first real meal of the day. Six eggs, got some baby kale, then I'm going to eat with some of the thousand-hour then dressing. And berries you can eat berries on keto, green tea, I drink three cups of green tea per day. I mix it with a mint tea, that's green tea and mint tea. It goes hard, coke zero, I know some of y'all nerds trip about artificial sweeteners. You got to remember man, it might hurt you, but it won't hurt me. I'm an invisible black guy. And I do something, I don't know, just making over the top. But I weigh my salad dressing, so I got on a scale, put it in zero. What could amount of calories, man? So you don't have to wind those up, drizzle drizzle, make sure it's on grams, 46 grams. I put all these in my fitness pal. Let's go. All right, so it's a little later in the day, a little afternoon snack, more green tea, and another way these keto college embossers. Got to go do another workout, little pre workout snack. It's probably not the best thing that you pre workout just at his life, something like. I got to feel alive, tell him, just me. I got so proud of you, boy, when he gets his day, you're mad. Get that's me. And if I'm taking a shot, I don't miss who knew I would be at a top like this. And no one made my goals for me. But I'm a Zaggy. I post workout, prok, do you shake? You see my queen always should cook in. Cookin' said, what was this? This is the bowl, it's riverbind. You know what I'm gonna do? That's like a... Pause. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Pause, yo, yo, we was at one of our friends house, we were all safe. But she just cooked, she just cooked the meat without washing it. And if you come from a black, or Hispanic home, you wash him before you cook it. But she just threw that shit in the pan. Like it was all good. And we were mortified. What do you believe in God? Is do you wash your meat for you cooking? Pause. Or you just throw that shit on the pan, and that God figured it out, man. You have to say I hear playing Russian red with your produce. Let it let me know. We still ate the food, and it was delicious. And nutritious, it was just... We just wasn't accustomed to that, you know? Look. Cheers to make it broccoli. Me, so should we make it that state? Here? See, see us waiting for a player? Manna. What's that for? Tell him what that is. She's the meat, the mama does. She's teaching me to get a medium, medium rare. You like a medium rare. I like a medium rare. So, what temperature that I have in on for the medium rare? Anywhere between 130 and 155. Yo, if you're growing, get the meat, the mama, the... Dumbler. You ain't got to live, you ain't got to settle no more homey. All right, your girl just fucking guessing. She just guessing cooking is shit, man. You know what I'm saying? You'd be trying to get the medium rare. As she come out well done, bitch ain't got to meet the mama, they're made. Just dump her. All right, because you could be living like this. You can just hand you could have this. Now we get broccoli in this tomorrow. And she weighing it for for your boy. Who's gonna go out to eat tonight? But there was a fucking hurricane or something shit. The streets with flooding. That's the thing Miami summer. Everyone's a while. There's gonna raise the hard that people can't drive. Or fly, yo, she came in. You flew into that. I did. She was a she was in Tampa or some shit, you know, for a baby shower. I ain't want to go. They asked for you. They asked for you, but I wouldn't... They was working. I wasn't working, though. I was with my son. I was working on breaking this cycle of no father's in the black community. Already got here. We have 13.5 ounce bonus rib. And then 13.8 ounce broccoli. Mm. And then the greens and the protein. So what does set the first bite in his state? She does bust it. Hi. She cooked. She cooked the hell out of this shit. How you prepare the steak, though? She got a business. She gatekeeping. But you know what I'm saying? Maybe your girl got to figure it out. Rice. And the thing you see Dominican rice, which she used to cook in big ass bananas. Open man's gonna do the steak. That's what she's saying. She's now used to cooking that she used to cook in big ass bananas in rice. But now she's cooking keto shit, man. What do we eat with the rice? What do we eat with the rice? Reins. Reins. And steak. Or chicken. Y'all call it beef steak, though. Beef steak. It's weird, man. But you don't solve it, but you know listen. You take the deal with the bag. So she killed this shit. Yeah, I'm scared. Alright, so that's what I ate for the day. 280 grams of protein. 206 grams of fats. And only 60 grams of net carbs. Total calories. I want a little bit over my calories. I'm gonna be honest with you. But yeah, I ain't going to pay because I'm gonna cook that. But you can't steak for your boy. So my calories is 3000, 300, and 90. It's cool, man. I work it all. I work it all. You know, I'm not really on a cut right now. If I was cutting, I would have about 25 l of calories. But I'm not going to have a little bit more size. So I'll take the extra calories. It was slightly overmanaged. I don't know how to end this video. I got an else to say. So we're going to do it like that. Thank you.

Donald Trump has released a line of watches. I love everything about him. I'm a watch guy I love watches, you know, I got a rich meal. I got a few APs, road lexas, more G-shoxing. In one, you know. All right. So here it is, man. The Trump watch is a few of them. All right. So first man, we got fight fight fight. This is his signature. Ask cool. This is a dive watch obviously in gold and ceramic. You know, let's see what Trump has to say about it. Hello everyone. It's President Donald J Trump and it's Trump time. Check out Trump's review. And it's Trump time. You see what he did there? It's one of my new watches where it proudly on your wrist and everyone will know exactly what it's for, who it's for, who it represents. It's really going to be something special. Well, you mean death is signature. That's a little like scribble, scrabble. That is the like a polygraph test. It was going to be a favorite president. Get your watch today. What is it your favorite president? Yeah. All right. What? Trump watches that. Come, remember, Christmas is coming. He's making a great Christmas gift. It's Trump time. It's Trump time. Let's find out more about the fight fight fight. All right. So this one is in gold. Obviously this is the two-tone variety. And this one is, you know, looks like that's, it looks like it's still, we're going to see if it's why it goes still. It looks like a red. I feel like that but match what I have on today. Oh yeah. Red and silver. It's on silver and gold. Tom. Onix and gold. Tom. The gold and gold? You better snooze a loo. You're only making a thousand. All right, missile dissed edition. Fight fight fight watch. It's played it with the president's own favorite color. Go. In the same metal, go. But we need all these prices, you know, so whatever you know, you can do. Right? This is played with 18-care gold. A strong statement of ambition and success. We've customized this edition version by adding the dayday display to the dial. This allows you to keep track of both the day and the week and the day. The day of the week and the day. He's only making a thousand and he's you can pre-order now. It's off fucking round man. Go ahead and get you one of these a gold gold fight fight fight. Maybe the fucking gold is too austintatious for you. Perhaps you want something more under their radar. Be read this fight fight fight. This watch cap suits Trump's relentless fighting spirit. That's what I thought when I saw it. All right. It features the president's signature. But a red dial best look. We're boldly in display your patriotic spirit. Oh, you know what? That's a picture of her on the back of these love vuggers. It got the image of after he knew him saying after they tried the poppin's top. Right. And he got up and pumped his fist in the air. He got the image. Yeah. Yeah. As we say fight. Yeah. This is that's why it's the fight fight fight. I know they had it on the back. In case one Trump signature wasn't enough for you. You might have needed his name again on that shit. That's seconds Trump signature. How many times does this watch have his name on it? Two on the front and two on the back. You're so fucking with Trump, man. You're trying to kill Trump. You're going to make a watch about a year. Get some fucking cream. Let's say I want one of pre-warded men. You're saying, all right. All gold. That's a bit much too tone. That's kind of old manish. This looks more new school. Get the red fight fight fight because I want to proudly de-play and display my patriotic spirit. I can pre-warded this for five hundred. That's actually not a bad price. You know? That's just to see some specifications on this motherfucker, man. That's a lot of water resistance world. Three hundred and thirty feet. Hey, he also accepts Bitcoin. All right. So they'll take real money and fake money. You hurt? It's automatic movie. The bezel is aluminum. I got them bad to say about it. You know, you got a really like Trump to have his name on it four times. But I don't know. It owns a daily wear. You just saying if this is your boy, who needs a Rolex. You could just get you a fight fight fight fight. All right. So you can get the diver or you can get this. If you want to class it up motherfucker, the Trump victory turbine. I want to watch that video about it. Hold up, man. Try to kill Donald Trump. Hey, watch him make a watch. Well, everyone at your favorite president Donald J Trump here to introduce my favorite president was Lincoln for obvious reasons. Wait, wait. Let's see what my man's talking about. Something really special. I think you're going to love it. My new Trump watches. We're doing quite a number with watches and the quality to me is very important. The Trump victory turbine. This isn't just any watch. It's one of the best watches made. It's a turbine watch with almost 200 grams of gold and more than 100 real diamonds. That's a lot of diamonds. That's a lot of diamonds. I love gold. I love diamonds. We all do the only 147 of these extraordinary watches will ever exist in the world. Only 147, James. Let's think big. World and owning one puts you in a very exclusive club. I have watched number one and I'm going to keep it. It's mine and that's the way I want to have it. Each watch is numbered and extremely rare. A true collector's item and includes a personal letter signed by me. Get your Trump watch right now. Go to getTrumpWatchis.com. It's Trump time. Trump. So I've got the amitlets check this out, man. Turbiont is actually a really sophisticated watch movement. So when you see a Turbiont that's hidden in middle spins, right? Back in the days it was used for pocket watches. It had a real functionality in pocket watches, but now when they put it on wrist watches, it's unnecessary, but it's just like away from watchmakers to flex. It's actually a very complicated movement. First of all, it's only making 140 of these. If you want the 50 for when you out a love bitch, should have fucking stepped up, which you'll pour in. You should have pre-order that shit. For you got sold out, I mean, what we got? We got the gold with the black dial. We got the gold on gold dial. That's the first one. That's the one that's the one that died. Yeah, and you got the rose gold on his hose. Rose gold is typically more expensive than regular gold. I guess it's more difficult to manufacture. However, like there's less gold in rose gold. They add copper to that shit. Do you give it that color? So it's like less gold, but it's more expensive. Same thing with white gold. White gold is like less gold in it. They add, wrote him to it to make it white. Like so this cardier bracelet area is in white gold. Yeah, but it's more expensive than yellow. I guess it was the difficulty in making it. Design for the president. The Trump big, the return beyond the design. This is one of classic sophistication combined with President Trump's symbol of success gold. Almost entirely made of 18k. ago. Come on, let's go man. Be ready to wear a declaration of victory as a hard line. Yo, whoever wrote this copy, my hats off. The most brilliant of medals on that I'm going to tell you how good gold is. All right, whatever, that's cool. A statement of limited luxury on the power reserve 105 hours. Pretty good. That's due to the turbine. I'll move me the thickness. Oh, it's pretty thin. Pretty thin watch. Pretty for a turbine. You got to have none bad to say about the watch. That's a honeyk. I could add that to my cart right now. The other one was I got a pre-order. I can go ahead and add that to my cart. I could give him a magic key right now. Is this one a hundred k as well? Oh, that's a hundred k too. Let's see if the rose gold is more expensive. Oh, man. You know what? They ain't even charged his more for the rose gold. Look at that. This must say James too. Will they say Brand In Listening B if I caught me the Trump turbine. Now there's a thing. You pre-order these joints. They won't be available until sometime in between November and as late as December. Which leaves me to believe that your pre-order is actually paying for it. I think that's a cool thing to do with business. I remember it might have been 2016. I came out with some shirts. And mean the homey white boy Brown we was wearing our shirts and all the videos and people were asking you how do we get these shirts? How do I get these shirts? And then we just launched a pre-order for we used a pre-order money to put in the orders this way we'd have to make a whole bunch. And if they didn't sell, we would have just refut it, everyone. Nobody loses under those circumstances. Trump's probably doing that right now. And he probably want to get the pre-orders in because the race is like 50-50. So if he loses, watch some of that be the same demand. But now he's got the sort of fan base. There's some of us who will just buy that shit, man. Which one are you growing here? Are you guys going to get the victory turbine or the fight fight fight? Now let me know in the comments. Something you don't have to pre-order. Something you can get right now. If a free is my ebook the 10th members of all line training. Show you that. I'll start your online business stuff. I made my first million. And now it's he's up to be right to do it. You may not have a honeyk-a for the victory turbine. Yeah. Down the book. Learn how to start your online business business for free. You know, you might not be able to get the turbine. Because it's only a thing. You'll be making a 147-o, man. It's 147. Because he sang and he'd go and beat a 47th president. You see what you did there? Or did you all missed it? That fly over your motherfucking pain? You got to do a little bit of mental gymnastics for that shit to make sense. But you get it. You could get you a fight fight fight and they're making a thousand adults. I might give me a fight fight fight. In case I wanted to have a conversation piece of my family reunion. It's a subliminal message to the voter. Where does this to the poll? The rally? The clan meeting. I'm just joking about the clan meeting. The not all trump supporters are in the KKKK. But if you win the KKKK, I know I'm just fucked with you man. I'm not political at all man. I'll give a book. I got friends who can't pain for Bernie Sanders. I also got like a good friend of mine. He got arrested for charging the capital after Trump lost the last one. I got friends on every side of the aisle.

The beat between suspected human, Elon Musk, and grown shit in nugget, Donald Trump. A.K.A.R. fearless leader has erupted, is gotten crazy. I want to talk about it, what's happening? And I want to talk about how we can make some money off of it. For sure. But here's the thing. For beginning to us, I'm not political at all on that conservative, not liberal. I'm conservative about some things. Liberal about some things. I'm a big second amendment fan. I'll be walking around my amy streets like Black John Wick, Jamal Wick, but I also think abortion is cool. I think some of y'all should have been a boarder. Coming here to talk is shit. I'm gonna board you now. I'll fuck around in a board and the dog right now that ain't even mine. Do you shit your mom was too scared to do? Both part of abortion and it's my fucking. I say I ought to say I'm not political. I'm not taking a political stance. All I care about is how we can make some money off of it. Let's give a recap of what happened. Yesterday, Elon Musk called Donald Trump's big beautiful bill, debt slavery. And he urged people to call their congressmen and tell them not to vote for that shit because the bill hasn't been passed. Who all levels the government yet. The republic is gonna have that bill passed by the 4th of July. America's birthday is when we commemorate the first time we beat the shit out of the British. They tried to run it back in 1812. They said, you know what they wanted to rematch. And they got what they was looking for. They got fucked up again. That's when they went ahead to the bill passed. Fourth of July, but recently Trump fired back claiming Elon only opposed the bill because it removes the EV mandate on the V-notice ballot. Elon Musk, a lot of people don't. He really likes electric vehicles. He's actually a big proponent of them. Not people don't know that. A lot of people just think he makes races. A-I saw of where. Grock is not racist, but if you are racist, definitely use Grock. For sure, I use Grock sometimes. Sometimes I could be a little racist. Claude won't do their job for me. You only use Claude during Pride Month. But here's the thing. He doesn't just make races. A-I also has an EV company called Tesla. Now Elon responded threatening to start his own political party. And then he said, then he said, you know, Trump, you wouldn't even been elected if it wasn't for my help. He said he was ungrateful. There may be some truth to that because Elon Musk didn't need about $300 million to Trump. It's campaign. I know for some of y'all. That's a lot of money. That's the reason I say something because probably one of two billionaires watching this shit. We're trying to see what a real nigga's talking about. Because they ain't got that kind of exposure. And they're liaison to the regular motherfuckers. Now maybe you would've got to elect it without that. I don't know. If motherfucker give me, if I give him motherfucker $300 million. I'm not going to expect him to do some shit that fucks with my company. He don't say I'm not going to expect him to try to get a bill pass that deliberately hurts my company. Like, that's not what I would expect. But I never been a billionaire. So maybe billionaire's maybe Trump. He's a billionaire. He was thinking differently. I don't know. But then Trump responded that he said he threatened to pull all of SpaceX government contracts. So Trump is like, oh, you ain't like me taking away the EV mandate. What's going to happen when I take away your motherfucker rocket ship money? You don't even say it because he has another company where he's building ships, presumably to go back to wherever he's from. And he knew I ain't like that shit either. And that's when things took a while to turn. So even when I said, Yoastown to drop the big bomb, Donald Trump is in the Epstein files. That's the real reason they've not been public. Have a nice day, Donald J. Trump. So this is getting crazy. Now, how do we make money off of this? That's a question. Here's my investment thesis. Ever since Elon started fucking with Trump giving a money, shouting a mountain shit, even before the election. I was thinking of my head man, this can't be good for Tesla. Because I don't know any conservative that drive Tesla. Maybe you guys do leave a comment if you know someone because some hard-core conservatives who drive electric cars, I live in Florida. My own be Florida. And I'm rich. Does that mean almost all my friends are conservatives. But I'm also black. So what does that mean? I know a lot of liberals as well. All the Tesla owners I know are legit liberals. Like one of them I have one friend in Miami who has a Tesla guess what? He's a fucking vegan, right? He don't get more liberal than that. Some of my conservative friends know bullshit, drive monster trucks. One of them has a card. It looks like a legit tank. They love gas. They love fossil fuels, petroleum. They don't be fucking with those. EVs, right? So it's pretty much a liberal customer base. I'm sure it is exception. I'm sure somewhere in America. Sure there's a model tree with a Confederate flag on it somewhere in America. I just say seen it. We can assume that most Tesla owners, at least in the past, were liberals. When he flip sides, the liberals ain't gonna fuck with because they're real. The more hardcore liberal you are, the more you ain't Trump. That's what liberals are fucking bomb and Tesla's. You know what I'm saying? You're putting, hopefully the California was slapping. But for stickers on that card, I'm saying yo, I bought this ship before it, Elon went crazy. Because California got all the liberals, you know? My thesis was meant, this got to be bad for Tesla. And that's stock been dropping. The stock would drop. And Elon, he gave Trump $300 million. A little sum broke off a little change. You know, out of game more, I ain't had a time to link up with him. But then when he got elected, he went on stage. And then at the inauguration, he had them with the, I give my heart to you. Now a lot of people are saying that look like a Nazi salute. Some people are saying nah, he just got a little bit of autism. He just, that was just a little bit of tism. However, I know motherfucker, it was way more autistic than Elon. And they've handed me things before. They've given me things. And none of them have ever gave it to me underhanded. Like this. They thrown things to me. But none of them ever did that, right? I'm not saying he was on some Nazi shit. Maybe he was just a fucking tism. You know, his tism was acting up. But it might have been some else. They would talk about Elon Musk, man. That motherfucker on drugs. He stayed on the academy and the ecstasy of the smuffling poppin. Like a delix. He been going crazy. Getting mad bitches pregnant. He got like 14 kids now, man. My man, I live in like a rock star. Cry, he could get in bitches pregnant. Doing mad drugs. This article is actually kind of fascinating, you know. And then there's another, there's another article that said that. It's came from the economic times. I got to tell you all. They can number times when dogs left the White House. They said that man, they found man, fucking drugs. Man, we ketamine and roaches. That was fucking dirty up in that bitch. Like they was going crazy. It sounded like they was on some rock starship. Man, it was when drugs getting motherfuckers pregnant. If I do enough ketamine, I probably break out of Nazi salute. Or some. But the, especially if I was on the shroom, they said, that shit, I have you doing all types of salutes. A Nazi salute would have been one of the least crazy is shit I did that day. However, I don't think that's good for Tesla. So as soon as I saw the Nazi salute, I was telling my financial advisors, I want to start shorting Tesla, shorting a stock. We were calling it the Tism short. Little autism short. I'm not a financial advisor. It's not financial advice. This is just a suggestion. If the CEO of a public company, if you find out he's a junkie and he's doing and he's publicly doing Nazi salute, on purpose, on accident in voluntarily. If he doesn't have the wear with all to not do a Nazi salute, even if it wasn't on purpose, he should probably short that stock. That company's in trouble. It's not a political thing. It's not a political thing. CEO of Mars Candy comes out and does a whatnotse salute on accident. He ain't no, we shorten him in him. This is after no. I think that's a good policy. Putz. Now if he's doing ketamine in shrooms, short that stock too, right? No, but he had been now. He's got beef with the homie Trump. And Trump got power to actually hurt these motherfuckers. He's out here saying the Trump, he's saying he called Trump a pet. And no one's certain terms, right? He called Trump a f***. F.D. was a wild boy. I don't want to say it publicly what he was doing. He had a freak ya'll in. F.D. make diddy look reasonable in car. And if Trump's in their win, basically he called him a f***. Here's the thing. I'm saying we should short test. If I'm trying to say, I think that's a homie make money off it, right? And maybe even to space it, that's publicly traded as well. Because check it out. I never been present in the United States. Full disclosure. But if a CEO of another company started calling me a f***. Wow, I'd probably cancel the government contracts with him. I probably wouldn't be doing business with him. I'm a chartered government, he insharaged the company. We probably shouldn't do business together. Now Tesla is down like 15% today. 15% that's a shitload in one day. And E-line is out here doing Nazi symbols, potentially doing a lot of drugs. Who probably have three, four more babies before the year's over at this pace and he's in the beef with the most powerful man in the world while running several companies. So he's getting bad bitches pregnant, running several companies and has a beef with the most powerful man in the world. Even if the drugs aren't true, those are enough things that if any CEO, any CEO is not a legal thing, was involved with it. I think by some puts on that stop might be appropriate. So that's how a plan on making money off this beef. No matter how it ends up, but if you don't want to do puts or you ain't got no money to do puts, where I can put it's cause money, you're just starting on not spending this business. I got a free people who got the tank of man, it's a long line of training. It's show you how to grow your own not spending this business, even if you don't have a big problem, even if you're not certified. Even if you don't have a lot of experience, that's how many my first meal in the first meal, you check it out. You might be interested in for you. Because if you ain't got no money to buy Tesla puts, you got to go make some money. All right, let's get it.

If you want to make money as an online fitness coach, I want to show you exactly what the post on Instagram. So you grow your father, boost your engagement, and most importantly get more online training clients. So you can start making more money than a thought with only fans, link in our bio. If you watch this video to the end, you will learn what the post, how often you should post, and I'll also break down my proven money making Instagram post informative that I've used to help over 15,000 people start their own online fitness business. If you can't watch this video to the end, then you are destined to keep wasting time, posting cringe bullshit that will make you know money. And the only good thing about that is that only a few people will laugh at your goofy ass because most people won't even see the shit. I see trainers all the time complaining about, oh, I can't get any engagement. My father won't grow. I can't get no online clients. The market is saturated. So I'll bullshit. My students and I are getting new online clients all the time. If you watch this video in and actually follow the steps, you won't have to worry about it. I'm going to show you what the post, how often the post, and I'm going to show you why you don't even need a big following to get a ton of views on your rails and shit. So you can get all that in more and the last tip and be the most important. First thing we need to understand is how often should you post on Instagram? Well, I want to show you a video from the CEO of Instagram, the man in charge. Out of questions and the last couple of days about how much to post on Instagram. And so I did want to make sure you know that you should prioritize quality over quantity, but in general, posting more will help. The more you post, the more people you're going to reach, and the more your follow count is going to grow over time. The more you post, the more people you're going to reach, and the more your following is going to grow over time. That is the mother fucker in charge of the grant. He is the CEO of Instagram. He's saying the more you post, the more people you reach, the more your follow is going to grow over time. So having a sit, how much should you post? If you're not posting at least once a day and you're not even trying, I have some students making 50 grand a month or more. I have one student, I'll show you some of our videos later in this who made $1.5 million dollars. That's our online trainer last year. My top students are posting three, four times a day. Why? Because like the CEO of Instagram, say, a more you post, the more your follow is going to grow over time. And you don't have to worry about posting too much, is because the algorithm changed over the years. This is how the algorithm works. And this is why it's not important to even have a big follow anymore. Check this out. Let's say you post a real. This is a very important. We want to focus on reals. Reals get the most reach on Instagram. So you can post pictures in our ship or reals get the most reach. When you first post a real, what's going to happen is Instagram is going to show it to a small segment of your followers. We'll call this test one. So they won't even show it to everybody. All right, they're going to show it to a small segment of your followers. If these people watch it and or engage with it, then Instagram, the, oh, these people are really fucking with the video. And they'll show it to a larger portion of your audience. So this will be the second test test. Two, you can't post too much because it's never going to show it to all your audience. You can't post too much. Maybe like five, six years ago, you could, but this is the way the algorithm works now. Right. So you're going to get one test one. Oh, you're going to show it to a small segment. If those people watch a certain amount of it, watch time is the most important metric. If they engage with your content, that's helpful. Right. If they save it, that's helpful. But the most important thing, Instagram cares about is actually watch time. So it's those people watch it, boom, then it sends it to a second test. If those people engage with it, time it save, but most importantly, watch a high percentage of it. Watch time is the most important metric. If those people watch it, they don't just skip through it. Boom. Then it's going to go to test number three, where they'll show it to a larger segment of your audience. But also, it'll start showing it to new people, they'll show it to some new people, some people you don't even know. This is how you grow your following. You have to make it out of your test, out of these tests. Boom. Then it's going to test it again. But the next test is going to be more people you follow, but also don't follow you. This is why the CEO of Instagram is going to say, hey, the more often you post, the more people you reach, the more you follow them all the time. Right? So I'll show it to a big audience. And then boom, if it passed, that test, that's when you start to go viral, where they start showing it to mostly people who never fucked with you before, and never saw you before. The blue represents new people. And it's still showing people in your audience as well. This is how the algorithm works. So you got to make it out of each test. This is why it doesn't matter if you post too much, because they're going to test it on a small group you're on a Steve Dave and like it. If they like it, then they'll show it to a larger group of your audience. If you pass the second test, then it's just our show on it to more your audience and new motherfuckers. If you pass that test, then it's going to show it to even more new motherfuckers. And then if you pass that test, boom, then you start to go viral. You can't post so much. And the thing is, you want more shots at bat. You know what I'm saying? So eventually, the more you post, the more chances you have of passing these tests. But now, what do you post? So before I show you the different content styles, especially for fitness influencers, you need to know the structure of the content. And it's something I call the epic formula. I teach this to my students. I felt over 15,000 people grow online fitness businesses. I call this the epic formula. Right? So the beginning of the epic formula is says for engage. Meaning you have to grab attention. And this is going to be the first five seconds of the video. The first three or five seconds of the video. We focus on videos because videos get the most reach and the most engagement on Instagram. Every since TikTok came out, they started prioritizing reals and videos. And you don't understand it. So boom. Five seconds. You want to make sure you grab an attention within the first five seconds. Okay? We'll show you some methodologies of how that later in the video. The P of the epic formula stands for premise. After you grab attention, you gotta tell them what the shit is about. They need to know why they should pay attention. Why should they give a fuck to your numbed's videos, man? Why should they pay attention? And this is going to be after the first three to five seconds. Sometimes the first five seconds is called the hook. How do you hook people in? If you hear me refer to a hook, that's what I'm talking about. So this is after the first five seconds. After this is after hook. And then the eye is info. This is very important. If you want to make money as online training, you have to post helpful information. Don't nobody want to see you mother fucking dance. Don't nobody want to see you do that shit where people point you. No, no, no, no, you gotta tell them like the fucking good shit. You gotta give them information that's helpful. Guess what? I'm doing this shit right now. Right now in this video is following Epic formula. This is the eye portion of the video. The info and you're fucking watching it. That's how I'm telling you to shit works. But we're going to condense this down in the one minute or so. This is where you teach. And this is should be the main part of your video. You're really teaching. Don't worry about teaching too much. It's the main part. And then see stands for CTA. And CTA stands for call to action. That's a market intern. You motherfuckers ain't go to college. But it's a market intern, which means this is when you tell them what to do next. For example, here's the CTA. Hey, if you want to learn more about being an online trainer, I have a free ebook called the 10 Commandments of online training. You'll show you how to grow your online business. Even if you don't have a big following, even if you're not certified. It's a free ebook linking this description. Oh, that was the CTA. And it's real. It's in the description right now. You should click it. If you want to make money as online trainer. And that ebook, I go into all these concepts in more detail. But that's the CTA. You see what I did, man? I'm a marketing genius. I did this in the fucking beginning of the video. You typically want to do it at the end. A lot of the time, just you can give away something free. Tell them to download something free. You can say, hit the link in my bio for this free shit. Or if you want to work with me, comment something below. All the people who comment that word DM them. And you start a conversation with them, get them on a sales call and close them for online training. I don't have time to go into how to close people in online training or how to train them. That's covered in the free ebook to 10 Commandments of online training. If you want that, the links in the description. Oh, another CTA. Right there. I'm the man. All right, let's keep going. This is the foundation of all online content that I do, right? The epic formula. Now, there's different styles of videos you can post. You do what I do never want to see is you just putting your fucking phone on a floor. Filming you working out. That's not helping nobody. He's just fucking showing off. You have to post information that helps people come to the goals. And the good way to do that is a video format we call talking hit. Right, talking. This is when you are just talking in front of the camera. You made you some b-roll on top of it. Here's an example. This is an example from one of my students. Corey Armstrong. Corey made $400,000 last year's online training. He's one of my star students. Let me show you a talking hit video. Where he's going to give a lot of advice. Ace to lose body fat. Watch which you. All right, so boom. The room, the hook or the the eating engagement. Waste lose body fat. Boom. Now he's going to go into the premise. And there's three drinks that keep your stomach big as hell. All right, so he's about to take you to three drinks that keep your stomach big as hell. Right. That's like the premise. Now he's going to go into the info. Alcohol. Alcohol like beverages, kill your body's ability to repair from workouts and metabolize fat. The second drink is sugary sweet drinks. Like fruit juice, soda. It has no nutritional value. And if you ain't running the marathon as soon as you drink it, that shit is going to sit on you and keep your stomach big. Zero calorie beverages. A lot of you guys feel your day with this. But don't recognize that this actually triggers your body to think that is getting sugar and make your sugar cravings go crazy. Is there? Just keep it simple. Do it these three water. Water is going to help your body. As you see, the bulk of the videos him teaching. I'm telling you the I, the info has to be the most important part. But you still have to get their attention. And you still have to tell them why this should pay attention. Okay. It's not a blast. Fat better and keep your cravings low. Coffee. Black coffee to be exact. Let me add them fucking sugars and creamers or sweetener to it. Jack and the calories up. It's going to curb that appetite and the caffeine and it is actually going to help you. Bar more calories at red on sweetened tea. Tons of antioxidants. How caffeine to help with calorie burning as well. Now he didn't do the CTA on this one. I don't know why he's fucking up. I teach my students the right. Basically right now good captain. You can just fucking take your audio. Put it in the chat to be self-directed with captain. But people read this shit. Let me show you another example. This is one of my students, Corinne Settin. Three years in a row. He's made over 200,000 dollars last year. He made a quarter million dollars on a line trainer. He's a vegan, right? But he's still cool. All right. So check the whole debt against them. All right. Let's go into it. Here's the best cardio for heart health when he comes in. All right. So boom. That was the hook or the E in engagement. So he's jogging in the camera and said, here's the best cardio right. Boom. For heart health. All right. Now we know what's up. And now he's about to go into the premise. Come see your heart. The heart is the most important muscle in the body. It's what keeps you alive. So you want to make sure you're exercising that as well. You don't want it. All right. So that was the premise, right? Boom. If we came in, you ran into the camera. Sometimes it's called a padding interrupt. When you do some kind of wacky, you're zainty. It doesn't have to be wacky, you're zainty. Just something that's going to catch attention on Instagram is stop people from scrolling. Here's the the best except for heart health. All right. That's the hook. Then he said the premise. He told you why fucking heart health is important. He keeps you alive. I'm not fucking right. Now he's going to go into the information. Let me do steady state because this is a low impact cardio. You want to do something that's a little bit more high intense. Try to stick with stage four, stage five. You switch between the two in when you have to take a little rest. Go to that stage three. That's what's going to really keep that heart strong. If you just stay in stage two and stay straight for a very long time, then you're not really testing the heart. You need to challenge it just as you challenge your other muscle. So if you want to work out plan, that's going to help you get us. All right. Here's the CTA. If you want to work out plan, right, boom. This is the, here's the call to action. Strong heart. Go ahead and comment down below. Vegan heart. And I'll go ahead and reach out to you. So you can be nice and strong and live a long life. Peace. All right, cool. Boom. So you see it is followed the structure exactly. That's why he's making so much quarter me in dollars. He just does what I say. Man, you can do the same. All right. This will be called epic captions. So you do the same thing with the caption. Right. Boom. That's hard. The hook. Make no mistakes. Hard as a bad health. For the best of premise, what it does will keep you alive. Boom. Then he writes the eye in here. The info. Then he has common vegan heart. The caption follows epic posts. People read the captions. But people are typing vegan heart in there. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. Boom. And then he's working on getting the models. It's called the clothes on line clients. That's what I teach. Just why my students make so much money. We got a formula. This is not the bullshit you was posting. All right. You put your fucking phone on the floor in the gym. Nobody wants to see that dumb shit. Nobody wants to see you just do a exercise. Right. They want to learn something, man. They're showing their physique. They're shirts off. They're showing their physique. They give you another example. This is from my student who make the most money last year. Kelly Nicole, she made $1.5 million. Gold is to lose body fat and gay muscle at the same time. I'm going to save you so much time and effort and give you the perfect macros split. Yeah. All right. So that was the hook. Now she's going to premise like she did it kind of creatively. Check this out. Yeah, that doesn't exist. Because losing body fat and gaining muscle at the same time is often just a dream or a marketing scam. Yes, it can happen if you're a newer, too lifting weights. But if you're not newer, too lifting and you just stay at maintenance and extort. Expect massive change to happen. That'd be like staying at a job that pays minimum wage and expecting massive change to happen to your bank account. Well, change it might happen. Now she's going into the info. Up in it's going to take many years for that to actually happen. So what should you do then if you want to see massive changes, pick a goal either fat loss or muscle growth and focus on that first. Generally speaking, if your body fat percent is below 22%, then muscle growth is probably a good place for you to start. If your body fat percent is 22% or higher, you might want to first focus on fat loss before you get to muscle growth. Once you decide your goal, then you can set your macros. And if you don't know how to do that, just comment macros down below for the absolute best method of finding custom macros for your goal, your body and your lifestyle. Seenless transition into the CTA. You just mentioned that they were seen that she gaped, she did the whole thing. Boom, engagement. She set the premise, she gave a bunch of info and then she said, y'all, if you want more help with that, boom. A lot of my students, what we do is we teach them to give away a free ebook or free tool and we show them how to put that together in a way that actually leads to sales. You can't really make 1.5 million dollars at the end. And as you can see, she wrote epic caption too. Boom, but she started with the cat. I don't really love when people do that, but that's fine. Right? Macros and she wrote, like, tell me, people read the caption, look how many people typing macros. Boom, she's hitting all these people up into the end, getting the more sales calls closing. That's why this is actually made 1.5 million dollars last year. It's online trainer. But those are talking heavy videos where you're talking and giving advice. Another key you need to understand with these kind of videos, you want to use a microphone. This tons of different microphones. You can get the world, it makes the microphone, it makes the microphone that you just plug straight into your iPhone. All those videos were shot by iPhones. Right? You don't need a fancy camera. Fuck that shit. Just use your iPhone. Here's the next video we post. I call this voice over tips. These are easier than talking hit. I'll give you an example of one. Check this out. This is one of that posted. Errht Fat and keep it all. First you have to track how many calories you burn each day, both from exercise or just walking around. You can track it with your Apple Watch Fitbit or an or a ring. You have to track how many calories you consume each day. I'm a psychoso I keep a scale with me even at restaurants and I track everything I eat with my fitness path. And then it's really just mad. For every pound of fat you want to lose, you have to burn 3500 calories. So if you want to burn a pound of fat a week, you just have to make sure that every day you're in a deficit of 500 calories. You need to be a burning 500 calories more than you can see each day. And if you want to burn 2 pounds of fat per week, then you have to be in a 1000 calorie deficit each day. This is guaranteed to work for everyone. All men, women, children, all mammals. It'll probably even work for all reptiles and amphibians. However, I never train what it in. So I'm not 100% sure. If you are a mammal and you want some help getting ripped and calculating your calories thrown and consuming each day, I have a free template. You can download, just comment the word goals and I'll send it to you right away. So you can see, boom, he's right. You can earn fat, keep it off, that's the engagement. Sometimes the premise and the engagement or a hook, sometimes they're baked in each other. And I feel like there was enough right there. I didn't have to go into more of the premise. It was kind of in there, right? So sometimes they're mixed. And most of it was the actual info. Then at the end, hey, if you want some more help with that, I got a free guy. Boom. And if you look at the caption, I basically had the same shit in my caption. And then people are right and goals, right? So they can get it. I check this out. This is easier than talking it video because it's just a compiled a bunch of what's called B-roll. Just me just showing different actions. Me doing shit, looking ripped. I put those together and I just spoke over it. I just spoke with this voice over it. And I get, but I still follow to Epic Formula. Let me show you another example. This is from one of my students. Man, she made over a hundred thousand dollars. Her first month in my program, Hi, ticket trainer. She's one of our stars, students. You have to make these protein bagels. They were so good. So you're going to add flour, salt, and baking soda to a dish. You're going to stir all of your dry ingredients together. And then you're going to add your yogurt. Stir that up really good. Then you're going to get your hands dirty. Need that into a bowl. Mine was still a little sticky. So I added some more flour until it looked like bitch. Number blocks for like five minutes. Now this is optional, but I added an egg wash. And of course, I had to get out my trader Joe's. Anything but the bagel seasoning and sprinkle that on top. Look how good they look. They were so crunchy on the outside and so green inside. Her is was a little more difficult than mine to film. She didn't just use B-roll. She actually filmed herself making this recipe. But then she did a voice over on top of it. You can see she's in shape. My god, guys. Right. Her target market is helping moms get in shape. Her target market is moms. And that's why you can see. If you watch the videos, they were so slow. Just like, there was like a kid running around and begging you saw a little kid. She stopped and talked to the kids about number blocks. If you got kids, young kids, you know that they really fucks with number blocks, man. My son, if you're on his number block shit, really resonates with the target market, right? She put the CTA right in her caption, DM me me bot. Remember I said, she didn't say it in the video. I wish you would have said it in the video. People, if you scroll down, people are DM in her bot. So people read the captions, man. Don't get it fucked up. People read the captions. People are commenting bot and she hits them up. Get some more sales calls. I'm going to show you another example of this. This is a Kelly, again, that my student who made 1.5 million last year. This is her doing the voice over. You never saw any progress from it. Listen up because this is why. A lot of people think they just need one macro calculation and eat it that forever and they'll make progress. But that's simply not the case. A lot of people need to go through a lot of macro adjustments to get to that end goal that they have. For some people, that means 15 to 30 different adjustments to their macros as their body changes. If you don't know, one to just your macros or how to adjust them, comment macros down below and I'll send you my free macro adjustment cheat sheet. Are you seeing man? That was super simple. You kind of mockers before, but you never saw any progress from it. If you've counted macros before, you never saw progress from it. Check this out for them. That's the hook. That's the intro. And she's just talking. She's giving a bunch of advice and listening up because this is why a lot of people. The whole thing is like just a montage basically a montage of B-roll. She's just talking over. We're going to come in macros. But people are commenting macros. Oh, man, she's hitting these people up and the DMs. Even whatever free shit she asks, get them all calls. And then she's selling them. And I teach my students how to sell. I teach them, I give them scripts of what to say in the DMs more than I can go over right now. But if you want to learn more about that, download the free ebook, the 10 Commandments of online training and put you in the right track. But this is the strategy that works right. Another style of video that you can post. Text only tips. So this is the easiest kind of content to make. Here's an example from Kelly. Right, she didn't say nothing. She just used the epic formula in this row it on the screen. You're going to say, let's run it and be sure you want to make this one more time. Just watch it. Just the hook. Oh. Is the premise? Here are the things you need to have. But here's the thing that she did do. She didn't do it all here. I don't really love this style but it works. The CTA of the video was to read the caption. But then she wrote an epic formula in the caption. Boom. She went down there and I'm going to go through all of it. Boom. A comment to work playing. Just look at how many people's comment playing. Right. She hit these people up. Use my DM scripts. Got them all sales calls. Use my sales scripts. So that teach on all students. Boom. Now she made up one point five million dollars. That's it. This is the easiest content to make. Make sure another example of this text only tips. I think it's better because she's actually giving the tips. Putting the text on the video instead of telling the read the caption. I think that's a little better but both work. All right. You get them saying you see this right? She didn't have to write as much in the caption because it was so much writing in the video. Some macros macros macros macros macros. Again, it's these people up in the DM. Use our DM scripts. Get some on calls. Use our sales scripts to close them. This is one of the easiest methods. This is probably the easiest content to make. You just have to fucking feel myself doing shit. You see how this is better than when most people are posting. Right. This shit is more compelling. You want to sell coaching. You have to teach in your content. So they know you're the real deal. It's not just about how you look. It's about how much you teach. How much game you can give them. Another solid video. This is transformation. You can use your transformation. This is a turning into a real. It's another example from Kelding. Just be real if you're looking fat. Now she's in this kind of shape. She's fit. That's compelling content. So that was a text-only transformation. Here's another way she did. Her same transformation. You can post the same kind of video with the different format. You'll see. Anything's I would do differently to get from here to here. Right. So it's actually showing her transformation. This is fast. 1. Instead of training 60s a week, I would only train four days a week. Training too much and hey, that's recovery in progress. And was doing me more harm than good. 2. I would stop trying to focus on eating as clean as possible and instead, sugarcounning macros so I could eat what I want in social progress. This would also keep me on track longer because I wouldn't end up binge eating or going off the rails because I was trying to eat as clean as possible. And the most important one instead of just sitting at the inance and hoping changes would come. I would go through cycles of cutting and building. This way, I could lose the body fat I want to lose. Build muscle and see changes a lot faster than sitting at maintenance. This is called nutritional periodization and it's how I've helped thousands of women get results like this. If you don't know if you should start with a cot or build a. It's a CTA. It's beautifully done. This was, this was one of my best to do. This is perfect CTA single list. First, just comment quiz below for my free quiz. It started as a talking hit but it was really just like a voice over as well. Right. But it's cool. It's like good intro started and then she went into the thing. And then she wrote all this. Comment quiz. Look how many of you are coming in quiz. Endless. Right. Again, it's hitting these to cheese. DM and these people using my DM scripts, getting them on a call, using our sales scripts, closing. Oh. I don't have no examples of me doing in manca's. By the time digital cameras is out, man, I was already looking better than everybody. Right. So, I'm old. I'm 42. Those type of videos are to stop. Now what kind of content can you use with those styles? A transformation is one of the types of content you see. You saw one that was text only when there was voice over. You would also do what foods you eat is another example from Korean Armstrong again, who we make 400,000 dollars less here. Here's the top protein sources to help you get rid of. Boneless, skinless, chicken Breaks. It's lean and it goes with everything. Laying ground turkey. On cure turkey bacon. Lesson flammatory. More protein beef, tops are long. Laying ground beef. Make sure it's 90 to end. Salmon. But if you do wild caught. Same with the shrimp. If that wild caught. Or you can get some hot-ocked organic, shredded beef. That's already fully cooked. Or the salmon that's in the pouch. Keeping it fishy, pouch tuna, or canned tuna, or sorry days if you want a salty. You can get these meats thick, spicy, chicken, respectively. Protein shakes. Either pre-mix or powder. Japanese-morking vignette. Gricky yogurt. Hard boiled eggs. Way to go. Grass fed jerky. And the organic cold cuts. Not that processed bullshit. He didn't do a CT in the video. He knows why, but there's a lot of good information, right? But you see that video, that was a talking video. It was like, what kind of foods is it? What kind of foods you eat to accomplish your goal? Let me show you another example. That was a talking hit example. Here's another one from Jen. Alright, so this was very important. In all the videos I'm showing, the trainers are showing their physique. I hate when trainers. Say why am I not getting me traction? You're not showing your physique. She's like, what do I eat every day? That's the hook. And it's also she's showing her physique. Off the rip. And remember, keep to some of my sheet targets, mom. That's her target market. She shows her kids, right? That's very important. You've got to throw in things that make your target market know that they can relate to you. There's another example for me. Keto for eight years. And here's what my pantry looks like. Come on. I've got to keep some sparkling water. You know, no tons of sparkling water appeared. Then I got a whole surplus at the bottom. Whole reservoir. I buy them both because I drink like two or three days per day. I like dico. I'm a big ass retain fan. These are my girls' sodas. She likes these. She likes real sugar. You know, whatever. It's cool. There we got regular water. Those are good. Sometimes you want regular water. Mata shots. I like green tea. Mata drink those. Thanks, Christian. Logan Paul. They send me this every month. Primes. Nicol. The people who added this video, they added it out when I said the frost of flakes are not for me. So like half the videos are ever never me. But then you knew to put your CTA. You can, you know. Because another talking hit style, what I eat video. All right. Next style of video you can post. Make money is online trainer. Test the Montios. So you could have test the Montios if you're clients. He's another room from gin. Only four pounds down and it's six packgains. Let me show you what we did. Here's my client. A busy mum of two who thought she had to lose a ton of weight to see results. Until we started working together. Between school drop-offs and pickups, we prioritized strength training and proper nutrition not extreme dieting. So that mommy pouch. On abs showing all without starving herself or spending hours working out at home. So if you're looking to lose fat and build muscle DM me goals and let's see if we're good fit to work together. Well done, right? She showed her clients who got in shape, but drop goals. Boom. People start dropping goals in there. She's DMing and people hitting them up. I'm sure example, this is not a fitness example. You can also do it like this. I didn't do it a real. So I had this video. But then I showed it. So sometimes you can do videos with a carousel and this is just me with some testimonies from my students who I teach how to grow on not fitness businesses. What's your business the year? The last year was a record year. We finished at $470,000. A lot of this to you and the team just being able to continue to provide the value and consistently being there to help. So I'm a totally grateful man. And of course you're running a blog. I'm saying 9k, 8k, 8k. Your first 28 days in the program? Come on, right out the gate. Let's go. Is that the most money you ever make from your fitness business? Yes. This gives out a hundred a round of applause. Last month was about 10 and then 40 year. It was 245,000. Let's give correct around the applause. Last month wound up with 26,500 and one dollar. I finished in the year at $260,546 in 70 cents. Come on, you're all not treated. Yes sir. It'd be one thing that's all Christy. What Christ? South of Christ man, that's the last month we finished 13k. We got to 120k for last year. I'm so grateful because I doubled my income since last year. I don't know the currency you've seen. I don't think I had seen. It's him. It's him. Last month I brought the money for. Come on, man, you make $10,000 last week. From all just over. September. It's been a super excited guy. I finally hit my first 20k month. I did 20.1k last month. And I'm doing nothing special guys. I'm doing exactly everything that Brandon teaches. So you can do a testimonial like that. So you can just have if you have a budget testimonial like me. Obviously that was for online training. But if I was selling fitness stuff, I could have did it with my clients. If you have like video testimonials from him or if you don't have video testimonials like him, you could just tell the story of them with their before and after the way gendered. And she blocked out their face because some people like eminent, you get that school. But like these are real testimonials. Maybe you guys want to learn how to do this. I look the free ebook, the 10k man is the one I'm training and start learning with my clients. Start doing. Actually, the growing business started in some of this money. Another one you could do is the best supplements. Here's a talking head version from Korean you saw he made $275,000 last year. That's sleeping supplements you can get right here in public. So when it comes to sleeping supplements, I usually stay away from melatonin because when comes a melatonin, you can get very dependent on it. And if you get dependent, that means that you have to always use it just to go asleep. So something that you could take on and off, especially if you have a racing mind, is this gaba. Alright, I highly recommend taking this is something that I take personally as well. I recommend a lot of my students. I remember this video is like, you only see no fancy editing here. You don't need no fancy editing, no fun crazy. You don't need it. I don't want that to be a hinders. Sometimes my videos have fancy editing, but I got neema. I got a guy on staff who's really nice with this shit. I'm telling you my students are doing this shit by themselves. Right, you're exactly right. So take it and with gaba, it helps relax the body and the mind. There are no cuts on this. It helps you to stop testosterone as well. So if you're trying to build some muscle mass while you're sleeping because that's where all the magic happens, take gaba. My second best is going to be a 5HTP. So when it comes to 5HTP, this is really good because it helps with serotonin production. Okay. Now, if you try either or the gaba or the 5HTP, you can actually- We're going to watch this go. He's just talking about the shit in the video, right? Then you go and you wrote an epic caption. This is working really well, right? It's just a talking hit. But you could do this. Again, you could do this voiceover style too. You could just, you show in each content each supplement. You could take or you can do it. Text only style showed the supplements you take, right? Different ways to do it. You make the same video three times with three different styles. Talking here, voiceover, text only. You see, none of these are fucking bullshit in the gym videos. Right? You can do videos in the gym where you show exercise, but you still want to do it like this. Talking here or you don't want to just be in there, lifting and thinking that's going to get you some fucking plant in, so without teaching them something. You can also do hacks. Every time I post something that's like a hack somebody said, there are no hacks. It's just fucking calories and calories out. Yeah, dumb ass. But you know, there's some different ways to get the calories burnt. Bring way to burn fat. First, think your body weight in pounds times 10. And that's how many calories you should get each day. You're going to track it on your phone with my fitness pal. You're going to walk 20,000 steps every day. How are you going to do that? Well, if you like me when you have your desk, why are you working? You're going to have a treadmill. You can't afford that. They go outside. Outside is free. Oh, you're doing that walking. You're going to be listening to some podcast on how to get money. So you can get some money in a four-year cell, a treadmill desk. Do that every day to your ideal weight. That is a hack. Fuck with the nerds say that is a hack. Man, tell me, you'll get to a treadmill desk is a fucking hack. Fuck with the nerds say that was a talking head hack. Well, what do you should know? All these videos get, I'm showing my physique. Even if I got a shirt on, it's a fucking tank top or something. You got to show your physique. Only drink, bring me protein shakes. I'm drinking protein shakes multiple times a day. So I'm not going to be out here mixing, shit up, or shaking, shit up. It didn't have to do a dish. Have to clean it. I shake this up, drink it, throw it away. Then I'm back again in this money. Everything's going to say something like this, or the fact that I don't you silverware. I only use paper and plastic. People say, all you just get a mate. If you've got so much money, all you just get a mate. Listen, my housekeeper comes once or twice a week. But I eat multiple times a day. I'd have to have a living mate or like a nanny or some shit. So a lot easier to throw this shit away. As a way I say time, energy. I can devote that time to the acquisition capital. My favorite brand is Quest. I think these tastes the best. Good amount of protein, 30 grams. I'm patented down a few of these per day. And this is an easy convenient way to get more protein. Sometimes I just want to drink this instead of eating a steak. It's got to be premade because one thing I'm not doing is dishes. Like I remember when I had a nanny for my son. And I was like, this is dope. She comes. And she does everything for me. She makes him a little lunch. She cleans up everything. And she makes him breakfast in lunch. I was like, man, I need a nanny. So those are like hacks you can use. I'll show you one more piece. Games to lose that. Get yourself a Nintendo switch while you're on the exercise bike. So I'll play game, smash a bro's or spit some while I'm burning fat. Or you can just sell up an iPad mini and play game called Call and Duty Mobile. And you can play that while you're on the exercise bike. Drop it, nukes on the haters and burn in fat. So I'm on a tame easily. Or you can get yourself a little bit of these nerd mask. I'll kill this. And what I do is I strap this to my fucking face. And I play boxing game, creed, or my favorite is super high VR. You know, make your true an agents. And I know that's I'm burning the most calories with this because I track it with my ordering. And these are fun ways to burn fat. All right, if you got some hacks or some shit that you do that's different or something you recommend that's different than other people. Some something unique make a video about I'm telling you, man. That's hacks. Another style of video you can do is day in the life content. People love warriors and they love reality TV. That's why the fucking credit. Credation has became billionaires all this shit. You get interested in some knowledge in it to help them accomplish the goals. And how I do it is all voice over style. Take videos throughout the day when I'm doing what my phone, though that shouldn't cap cut, talk over it. To another day in a life of a baller shot call or in Miami floor. Start my day with a quick workout in the gym. I'm showing them that I'm working out. I'm showing them I'm rip, right? This is very important. Right before I go live on Instagram and TikTok simultaneously because I got too fun. Then my girl and I went to her photo shoot for her new bikini line. Some of her friends showed up for the shoot. I'm hoping she can turn this into a billion dollar business so I can be a stay at home boyfriend. The girls continued to frolic in the water but I had to leave to meet up with my boy, Eli on his boat where he was having an event. He had some food on the boat. Obviously I had my skin. Right? What the walk, right? You can throw shit in there to speak to your target market. I'm talking to trainers. That's extreme for trying that out. Not all trainers are doing that but if they see it, they like, you know, they know what's up. If Jen was doing it to mom, she would like her bikini, picking her, dropping her kids off at the car line, making mom shit, right? I'm doing baller shit. You know what I'm saying? But she would do mom shit. It means a way to food because you're not tracking you slack. The homey, robby pulled up to the boat in another boat. And me and the homey Eric went to the heat game later than night. They heat loss. But the only thing they could cure my sadness was watching these old people dance at the time out. Now I could have threw a CTA on there, right? But I don't always do that on the day in life videos, but it would have worked too, right? You know, I really like this content. And people like it too, it brings them in your life. Welcome to another day in a life of a baller, shot caller in Miami, Florida. Started off with sunrise, ocean, front, cardio, followed by a light body weight workout. None crazy. Just like work. I did more cardio while taking my first meeting. But I'm showing on working out doing this cardio. You know what I'm showing that I live this shit. Took some more meetings with the camera facing the ocean to flex on the other attendees. You've got a free water delivery from this local company called No Days Off. While on one of my other balconies, we realized that Jeremy just moved into a condo next door. So I stopped, but I was doing it. So check out the homies, no place. And he has the biggest balcony I've ever seen on a pin hop. Yo, Jeremy lost almost 30 pounds. This is, you know what I'm saying? Shout out to him. Then it was time for dinner. My favorite restaurant. Of course, I got my skill with me, my girl, and my boy time, and his girl came through. Time came through dressed like he was about to drop the hardest mix tape in a year. I don't drink, but my girl had maybe too much to drink. And that's always works out well for me. And it's like these people become recurring characters in your reality show. Right? People start the, the most invested is dope. And somebody asked how do I record hands free at the meta, the meta shades. Then you could just record shit all the time. Really easy, but a lot of shows don't want my phone. I'm sure you stay in a life of a baller shot called. I had my driver pick up me and my son to take us on our adventure. He drew a picture of me and it's super accurate. We pull up the build of bear workshop to make our own toys like bosses. He made a Simpsons colored Sonic and dressed him like Harry Potter. Then we hit a Lego Discovery World played with Legos, built Legos, played Lego games, and then bought some Legos to take home. We jump back in the whip until the driver to take us to this slime place. I forget the name of the slime place, but the place we can play with slime and do slime stuff. Then we put on the ponchos and got slime. I used to watch Nick and loading double-dears a kid and I always stop man when they just go be meat. I get slime. And it happened, man. Dreams come true if you work hard. Methods! The cardboard is at the plane to slime, rolling to slime, running to slime. Then we hit a Dave and Busters. We started playing games, winning games, winning tickets, getting merchandise. Seems like he had a pretty good day. I went to the gym to get another workout. It's on the show in my life and I'm showing them different parts of me, right? These videos are important because people in the bathroom who they have to know good like you and trust you. And if you bring them in your life, it helps build that no liking trust. I'm going to show just one more. They ain't a life of a baller shot call in Miami, Florida. My day starts super early with Ocean Front cardio and body weight exercises. Followed by Desayuno, called Minovia. She was eating walkals with some big candies. I took my morning meeting to wow exercise and doing cardio on my desk, bike, or diet. This allows me to work on my fitness and my body simultaneously. So, like I'm showing that I'm really living this shit. You know, it's not a game. You film me? I'm not done in the net two, three workouts already. Like I'm showing that I live this shit. For lunch, we hit up this spot called Joe a Beach. They had a lot of keto options for me. My girl clearly has some sort of deal with the devil that allows her to eat whatever she wants and look like this. Then I spoke in my boy Jeremy's mastermind where everyone said I was the best speaker as usual. Got another quick workout in before we hit up another spot for dinner. People don't believe this, but I take my scale with me everywhere I go. I walk the walk. I'm showing you I walk the walk. I walk away my fooling hit my macros. Then it was time to watch the maverick's loops. Right, and so the number real guy man, I watch the maverick's loops like everyone else. These videos are really well done. I really did. Maybe it's just a self indulgent. All are shot, call her in Miami, Florida. I started my day off every day with a walk on an ocean. I see this lizard every day. I named it Lorenzo. Yo, straight up. So, I'm telling you, these people become characters. If you do this enough, right, and if people really like to like you and trust you, people be hit in me, we all whistle with Lorenzo. Where's Lorenzo way? Right, after they saw him in some of these videos, we had nothing seen Lorenzo in about a year. We think we suspect he got eaten by birds. This is a circle of life. After I catch up with Lorenzo, I hit my first workout. Then it's time for sales, he means over breakfast. I hit the gym again like a G. Then start getting ready to put my gross. He got big titties and but he went and got a pick. You can have both. Me met a with Tiffany at a Korean barbecue spot because she Asian. Of course, I got to bring my skill with me, not tracking you. Slacking. We said buy the Tiffany because she was about to go get birthday drunk. Then we hit up cardio yet. And check out the new watches. I could not decide between the steel and the goal. I'ma get both. Then my knees came through. I changed clothes and took us to the arcade. We played every game twice. Then I took her to the mall. Most of us got to the mall. I ran into one of my subscribers. I guess he grows puppies and sales them. That's cool. Then we met up with everybody for dinner. And that was my day. Right. That guy said really works, man. You know, they don't have to be as wild as mine. They'd also post just like mindset shit. Talking head style really works for these. I prefer it. Like so here's the example. One is a gym or you hate dieting or you hate anything that's a dude that copstic goes. I want you to change your mindset. The fact that you don't enjoy it and do it anyway. It's something to be proud of. Because any asshole can do shit just fun and exciting. Because you're putting yourself through something that you don't enjoy in service of a goal or service of something greater that sets you apart. And it makes you literally better within them. So awesome mindset. You know, I could have said, hey, if you want some help, what to do in the gym, comment the word boom boom. You know, and that would have been a good CTF. You can give you another example of this. Or things that mentally strong men do. First of all, you've got to do it. Stop saying you're going to try to do things or I'm trying to do this. You can't be a tribe baby. That almost implies that failure is an option. You need to tackle your goals with the sense of urgency that looks like madness to regular people. Second thing you need to do, stop complaining. You always need to be looking forward. The third thing you need to do, monitor the way you talk about yourself. Because your words are just your thoughts, verbalize. So you never want to stay stuff like, man, I just can't figure out how to do this. And the last thing you need to do is to reframe all of your subjects as positive because they actually do make you stronger if you move past them. I've lost money, I've lost businesses, I've lost everything before. And I came back stronger. Now I don't have as much fear because I already know if I lose it, I know how to get back here. And when you have that kind of mentality, that makes you one of the most dangerous stuff. So that's my said. But you can do that either when you're talking to a voice over or text only, I prefer talking to those kind of videos. Those are just some of the many ideas of things you can post on Instagram that will make you more money, especially if you follow it with Epic Formula, it's going to really work for you. How do I notice that I've helped over 15,000 people be able to successful online fitness businesses? I made my first million as an online trainer before I started teaching people to shit. If you want to learn how to do it, you've got a free book, a 10 commandments of online training. So we'll break down this and more. Really how to build your business. Even if you don't have a big following, even if you're now certified, even if you don't have a lot of experience. It's the link in description. All right.

I take over a thousand milligrams of caffeine a day and I think you should take more caffeine. However, amount of caffeine you're taking, it's not enough. Caffeine has been proven to improve cognitive performance, improve physical performance, improve your health, give you superhuman strength and help you burn fat. Now a lot of people may hear me say I take a thousand milligrams of caffeine and he thinks that's excessive. Hey, you don't want to take as much as me, you probably can't do anything I do. I do all types of you can't do what you need to take more than you take it now. And a thousand is not that excessive. People start tripping when I say this shit, but let me introduce you to someone y'all might know my favorite white science man. Andrews you burn man. Let's see what he's got to say about it. Consumer about 800 milligrams of caffeine a day. I drink you. I'm half Argentine. You a jam, I drink you a mothray. I drink you a mothray. Oh, you're a zero sugar you're a mothray or I drink you a mothray out the guard. You remember everyone's favorite white science man. He's out of the team and we just we just learned day. They kind of white, but he takes 800 milligrams of caffeine a day. I heard that shit. I was like, man, look at Ricky Nors. I take over 1,000 milligrams of caffeine a day. At least now I'm not telling you that you should take that much today. You don't want to start with 1,000 milligrams. I had to work my way up today. Caffeine is a super droid. So first of all, caffeine will help you burn fat. The journal of international society of sports nutrition. But this study showed caffeine increases maximal fat oxidation during a graded exercise test. Right. Now here's the thing. What's fat oxidation? Well, fat loss is a two-part process. It's oxidation and lapoluses. Lepoluses is when your fat sales are broken down into fatty acids. Oxidation is when your body uses those fatty acids for energy. This is one of the reasons why you have more energy when you take care of them. Can they pop in? Right. So it's going to help you with fat loss. But that's not the only reason that you help you with fat loss. A lot of you guys, you have cravings. You want to eat candies and cake like a child or woman and you're like them. How are going to stop eating all these candies and cakes and sweets? Well, focus on a tasty treating amount. Right. Well, here's the thing. Caffeine is a potent appetite suppressant. When you're taking caffeine, when you're high off the caffeine, because there is a high, you won't be as hungry. So it'll be easier for you to not put a tasty treating your mouth like your mom. She can't help herself. She gets one of your caramel treats. How she's not going to put her mouth on it. Man, but you need to restrain yourself. You don't have to start with a thousand milligrams of caffeine a day. In fact, some of you might be thinking that thousand milligrams of caffeine is going to kill you. It won't. You need about 10,000 milligrams of caffeine. Kill you. Right. That's the lethal dose. 1000 milligrams? Nothing. It's not that big deal. You don't want to start there. I've been basically abusing caffeine since I was 16 years old. I said this should call ripped fuel before basketball games. One of the reasons why I let the league in fast. And I think I still have the school record for ejections in the season. I was like a young, drayman green. Caffeine also improves your mood. You know, this is men's mental health month and it's also Pride month. So it's all about the boys this month. You know, but caffeine will help you with your mood. Don't believe me. Here's a study, bitch. How caffeine can improve mental health and psychiatric disorders. One of the reasons that works is when you get caffeine, when you take a lot of caffeine, it floods your body with dopamine. It also increases the sensitivity of your dopamine receptors. Right. So you get more dopamine, but you also feel the dopamine more. Caffeine is fucking awesome. I took 300 milligrams right before it is. That's why we're all enjoying this video so much. Y'all never seen me over the last 12 years on lesson 300 milligrams of caffeine. Every time I fire up my camera, I take a pre workout. Every time, 12 years straight, I take it before work. It is not even just pre workout for me. It pre work before I'm meeting a speech. Whatever I'm doing, I'll take some pre workout before it. Not only does it improve my performance, but it makes it more fun. It increases the dopamine levels and it increases the sensitivity of the dopamine receptors. So you feel it more. Here's a quick pro tip. Take a pre workout before you have inner cores. Vaginal inner courses. That's only inner course I have experienced with. If you haven't taken pre workout before, vaginal inner course, then you basically emerge. You ain't real sex. Here's another reason why you should take a pre workout before inner course. Here's a study that shows that caffeine improves physical performance. So listen, if you haven't been taking pre workout before sex, you ain't been giving your girl the best you can do. You ain't been giving her the most. You've been half-assin it. That's why she's been cheating on you. Caffeine also improves cognitive performance. It's a new tropic. It's a potent new tropic. So here's a study that shows the effects on cognitive performance, mood and alertness. This is in sleep deprived humans. So listen, if you ain't got enough sleep, make some caffeine. It's going to help you out. Let's take a deal. Get enough sleep. Will it still help you? Well, according to Harvard School of Medicine, boom, caffeine and a healthy diet may boost memory, think and skills. The reason you get a quick wake-up call from sugar, cup cup cup of coffee. Well, white man wrote this right. It has to do with the wake-capping. Tricks your brain. Not only is caffeine a brain stimulant, but it also blocks receptors for chemical call adenosine, which normally prevents the release of excitatory brain chemicals. With adenosine out of the way, these brain sparking chemicals can flow more freely, giving you a surge of energy and potentially improving mental performance and slowing age-related mental decline. It's a super drug. People say, oh, you take too much caffeine. And the only problem with taking too much caffeine, it's as addictive. But it's also cheap. So who gives a fuck? Caffeine is cheap as dirt. Literally cheap is dirt. Like if you were at the home deep-o, and bought a bag of dirt, there would be like the same buying a fucking box of caffeine powder. It's literally cheap as dirt. You're going to prove your brain performance. You're kind of warned. That's not it though. Here's another study. Caffeine and is a cognitive enhancer? Yeah, man. Caffeine facilitates performance and task involving working memory to eliminate any step. But that's not it. Here's the thing. You may be thinking, what about your long-term health? Boom. Step for studies have shown that coffee drinkers tend to live longer than those who abstain from it. It's a studies published in the European Journal. But it's another study from an American University, Stanford University, Founding Caffeines, make counter-age-related inflammation and slow-to-age-impressess. Caffeine may counter-age-related inflammation is from Stanford University, good-of-mirroric and college. This shit is good for you. You need to take more caffeine. So what does that look like? I know you see the other guys with the morning routines, my home, my home, the ash and all, you're doing all this shit. I was like, where is the caffeine but he left a lot of stuff out. Like, ash and all, even urine ain't too normal. You understand? He left everything out. Right? I wake up and I don't take caffeine and medies. I used to take caffeine and medies, but I heard that because it blocks a denocene, you still have a denocene in your brain when you wake up from sleep, right? A denocene is the cup. I can't go to makes you tired. If you take caffeine, so as you wake up, it blocks the denocene but it doesn't allow it to clear out of your system. So that's why sometimes people get tired in the middle of the day that they start to day off with coffee. The home of you brimming and he said, to wait 90 minutes after you wake up to take caffeine. You're fucked that. I weighed about 230 minutes and then I took a pre-workout about 300 milligrams of caffeine. Pre-workout. I don't have no favorite brand. If I had to shout out one, I'm a shout out the shit called Woke AF, but I come and you call bucked up, but that's only because it does I'm a homies who own that company. Right? As long as you got 300 milligrams of caffeine, at least, I'm a good shade. I then I get in the shower and I start and I shave and I do all my old ass shit. Then I have my next meetings. Sometimes I think another pre-workout or I eat sometimes I won't. Right? I wake up around 5 or 6 a.m. The Pizzle Highfield. I'll definitely take another pre-workout by around 11. Whether I work out or not is the thing. It's from me is pre anything. Then I'll probably have another pre-workout around 3 or maybe I'll extend it to 5 or sometime between 3 and 6. PM. So I have my third pre-workout. And that gives me about 900 milligrams of caffeine per day. But I'll probably go over that because sometimes I'll take a shout out of espresso, which has about 70 milligrams of caffeine. I'll take a few shots of espresso every now and then. And it's not always pre-workout. Sometimes I'll drink protein shakes and I mix it with like 4 shots of espresso, but let's make you need more caffeine. You can't be sitting around here tired. If you tired, you might as well be re-tired. You can't compete with the motherfuckers. Who's out here? Doubt up on caffeine. And you just can't compete with them. You might have to start half a pre-workout. Maybe one shot of espresso. Figure it out, man. Now some of you motherfuckers would be like, oh man, maybe I have to take pre-workout before I go. No motherfuckers. You should not be iron-goon in for recreation. It's not something you want to be better at. But you need to have it before in a course. And before work, any kind of work, if you're going to write a book report, if you're going to study, take pre-workout for your study, man. I'm telling you, man. It's going to make it more fun and you're going to do better. And if you want more advice on how to burn fat, I got a video that will show you. You go watch right after this. All right. Cool.

But the time you're watching is we have a new president. It's not something I give much credence to because I know the success of myself, my family, and my future is more dependent on what I do than who's who is a president. Your future is going to be dependent on who's in your house, more than who's in the White House. I'm going to find a way to win no matter what circumstances I find myself in. I'm going to find a way to succeed no matter who wins the election. So you need to have that same attitude. If your candidate did not win, you need to think, hey, how am I going to succeed on the V circumstances? If your candidate did win, your success is still up to you no matter what. For example, I made my first million under the Obama administration. I made even more money during Trump's first time. That's when I expanded my net worth dramatically. And I made the most money I ever made in my whole life during the Biden administration. So what does that mean? That my success is up to me. And you need to really focus on that. I hear people saying, I'm a leave the country. If someone's so with this person wins or if that person wins, first of all, you ain't go do shit pussy. You won't stay put. You will bitch. I know because you ready to fucking leave a country because your candidate didn't win. That's how democracy works. Sometimes you can't even win. Sometimes you can't even lose. It's your job to win no matter what. Because the truth is, it's not going to affect you that much. I've lived through a lot of different presidents, man. But the most part, what's minor differences my life was the same. And it's going to be for yours too. For example, on Trump one last time, my taxes got lower. Yours didn't. For my day. And if you win this time, hey, I get to enjoy more tax cuts. That's going to be awesome for me. And if Kamala wins well, I'm at the pay more taxes. But I guess I'm going to find the the bright side in that. And I think the bright side will be that somebody who went to the same college is me as president, our university. And I get to rep that. So I'm a win no matter what as usual. And you really got to take that same fucking attitude, like no matter no matter what happens. I'm going to succeed. Because you can't change this shit. I had a friend. And he was a big Trump supporter. The friend of mine, Kuga. After Trump lost the election, him and his friends, they were going to get together on January 6th and have a little protest. I was like, all right, it's cool. Man, it's a part of America democracy. You're allowed to protest. Next thing I know, January 6th comes around. And I see a picture of him hanging from the fucking raffters in the capital. Yeah, he went to prison. And this wasn't some fucking jackass. Again, I tell you, friends with me, he was a multi-millionaire. But he worked with some really high level people that you know. Not anymore. He went to fucking jail. He's out now. He had to change his name. He is difficult for him to get work now because nobody wants to. He's a felon. And he'd like through his life away because his candidate didn't win. Sometimes my candidate wins sometimes when my candidate does. And I just look for a way to win no matter what. And that's the same thing you had to do. You always got to look for a way to win. Your success is up to you. If Trump was going to fucking fix your whole fucking life and fix all your problems, you would have did that shit when he had a chance. If Kamala was going to fix all your fucking problems, she would have helped do that shit when she was vice president. Odds are your life has been pretty much the same throughout both administrations. Trump did help me save a lot of money on taxes because those were tax cuts for rich folks, man. Even if I get into a lot of paid more taxes, I mean, I got to make more money. I mean, that's all that means. When Biden became president, I was like, hmm, probably going to start out to pay more taxes. He's probably going to reverse those Trump tax cuts. He didn't, but I think he probably will. So how do I win the D. circumstances? Okay, no problem. Move to Florida, no state income tax. And then he didn't end up raising the taxes shout out to Biden. And the stock market hit no all time high. I'm like, okay, like he had a lot of money in the market. So I'm a win no matter what, brother, and you got to have that same attitude. But if you are, you can't be out here throwing your life away, tripping or getting off fucking emotional, right? You got to be stoic. Right? Sometimes the ball bounces your leg. Sometimes it doesn't. And if you are serious about winning, and you want to make 20, 25, you're best year, no matter who's in office, I got a free tool for you. It's called the Victory Success Plan. It's in the description where you can map out all your goals for the year. I've used this to help people off coach make tons of money. And there's a habit tracker. So you can start setting up a habit. It's right. It's what it's important. The life you're living now is not because of who's in the office or who wasn't in office. If you're living now is a result of the decisions you made in the past. Right now, you're living the results of all the decisions you made in the past. Your life is a sum. Is the sum total of your past decisions. If you want your future circumstances to be different than your current circumstances, you've got to make different decisions. Right? You've got to have different habits. That's why there's a habit tracker in the Victory Success Planter. And there's a tutorial on there where you can show you how to set up your own habits. It's our track in it. And this way you can win no matter what, I promise you, it's to apologize with President now. Trump's in prison is now. He was President now. You can steal copies of your goals. Download that fucking tracker right now. And let's get the work man. It's free. 100% for you and you've got to put your email in or no shit like that. It's free. Downloading now.

In this video, I want to talk to you about poise and the e and everyday that I really think is ruining your health, messing with your mental health, slowly destroying your life in a subtle way. And the problem is everybody thinks this is okay and this substance is called sugar. In the fitness community, we all say calories and calories out. Doesn't matter what you eat as long as you get the right calories, you can still hit your fitness go for. As long as you still hit your macros, you can hit your fitness goals. And that's true to a certain extent. There's a study done by this professor. He did something called the Twinkie Diet. He lost 27 pounds even basically all junk food, but he was in a caloric deficit. So yeah, you can just get your focus on your macros and hit your fitness goals if your goals are purely aesthetic. However, sugar is really bad for you. And I've avoided sugar for the past 10 years. I'd like to make the case for you to avoid it. So even though you could still get ripped, you could still be in good shape. I want to make the case for why you should avoid sugar. Now, this is going to piss a lot of people off. I made an Instagram reel. Maybe a month ago, someone asked me, and he said, you every eat sweet. And I was like, what do you want to go? He just called me your pump man. And I said, no, man, sweet up women and children. And I said to kind of visit joke, right? People got super mad. I didn't know you guys love candies and cakes so much. They were like, oh, a little bit of sugar is bad. It's all right. It's fine. Sugar is really bad for you. Let me list some of the ways. And then I'm going to show you just how sinister this compound is. Right. So first of all, sugar zaps your energy. Here's the study that shows that simple sugars spike blood glucose levels followed by a sharp decline, which leads to crashes in energy and in irritability. Sugar is a simple carbohydrate and carbohydrates are converted into glucose or glycogen. When your blood glycogen levels go above 110, your pancreas decrease a hormone called insulin. Insulin's job is to lower your glucose levels. However, it's going to do it indiscriminately when your blood glucose levels are that high enough to spike insulin. Your body thinks it's emergency. It's going to get as much glucose out of your blood as possible. Right. And this is why people get tired after they eat or you have the sugar crash. That's what the sugar crash is. Your body trying to save your goddamn life. I get a riddle about it, extra glucose. If your body didn't do that, you would have what's called diabetes one. You have to inject your insulin to stay alive. But this could also lead. Here's another study that shows that sugar can lead to chronic fatigue. Right. So diet's high sugar can cause spikes. How it negatively affects your adrenal hormones and how it affects your cicadian rhythms. Okay. The another study showing that sugar can lead to lethargy. Right. I can really show you studies on this topic all day. But this is not the only thing that's bad about sugar. Sugar can also drive you crazy. Like really fuck with your brain and fuck with your sanity to a certain degree. Here's the study that shows that diet's diet's high sugar are associated with increased risk of developing both depression and other mental health issues. Here's another study that shows that sugar leads to depression. This is what they talk about in this study right here. Here's another one. Here's a study showing that sugar consumption can lead to stress and anxiety. Like I'm telling you, this should be bad for you. Like in fact when I was researching this video, it further cementing my legions to sugar abstinence. Here's a study that shows that there's a highly significant correlation between sugar consumption and rate of depression. This should be scary shit. I know you guys think you're gonna be sure it's okay. I can have a cheat day. I can have all this. Listen, mention this. This should fuck you up. If another study in a quote from it is, dietary sugar intake is positively associated with depression in US adults according to this study. Not only does it make you fucking crazy stress that like a spasm, it also makes you stupid. So here's the study that shows high sugar consumption. Particularly from sugar red drinks has been linked to impaired memory and cognitive function. Here is a study that shows that the sugar consumption decreases cognitive function. This is a meta-at analysis, the impact of added sugars on cognitive functions. You guys think it's okay. It's important for me to show you why sugar so bad for you and show you the studies. Because I know sometimes you won't believe it. Unless you hear some nerds say it. You want to believe this sugar is good for you because you love it. You're adding. This shit isn't addictive substance. Right now if you argue with me, you are like the crack-a-busses. Look at you, man. I can quit any time. You know, if you don't care about how well your brain functions may, I get you some sugar, man. It also shows that it increases the risk of all times. This is in older fellas, obviously. Increases the risk of all times. However, you may be thinking, oh man, I'm not an old person. So I gotta worry about that. Yeah. But hopefully you'll be a old person one day. If you got children or if you're a child watching this, it should be a consumption in children has been associated with poor cognitive function, attention deficits, and high-practivity. But you knew that as a whole say here. I think you'd be crazy to believe, oh man, it only affects old people in toddlers. Right? Everyone else is the moon. That's not what the data I've been showing you this far. It's so, right? Yeah. And here's one study that shows it aggravates symptoms of anxiety and stress. High sugar consumption can't get fake basically. Exciting increases. But not only that. It also makes you ugly. Yeah. Sugar makes you ugly. For fact, here's a study that shows that sugar accelerates aging in the skin. Sugar leads to the degradation, the degradation of collagen, right, which leads to premature aging. And that same in the same last study I showed a reference how diet's high sugar can actually lead to increased acne. Right? So if you can pimples the shit, right? Maybe you put the candy bars down for a week, man. Watch that shit clear up. Muffa is even treats all day. Wonder why the skin is breaking up. The same last study showed that it also increases skin conditions like Xema. Right? It's bad for your skin. It also promotes cellular aging, right? So it makes your your basically the gaseles and your mighty mitochondria age quicker. Right? This should be scary shit. If that wasn't enough, it wasn't enough that it made that it fucks up your energy. It makes you slow, fucks up your brain health, makes you stupider and makes you uglier. If that wasn't enough, it also fucks with your health. Hi, sugar and say it has been strongly linked to weight gain and obesity. I mean, you knew that again, with fitness industries like, oh man, as long as I'm a chlorideficit, the problem is it's difficult to be in a chlorideficit when you eat tons of sugar because sugar isn't addictive. So here's the study from Princeton University to show the sugar can trigger dopamine release in the brain's reward center. And the parts of your brain that are involved in motivation, reward, similar to effects seen in addictive drugs like cocaine and heroin. This is Princeton University saying this. So yeah, you can steal each sugar and be in the chlorideficit and get rid of the lose weight. However, you're making it difficult for yourself because this shit is addictive. It makes parts of your brain the reward center you're brain fire off. It also sugar consumption has been linked to increased risk of certain cancers. Right? My focus is out here getting cancer off to sugar. Right? It's increased risk, right? There's another one that shows me, I'm gonna give you another. There's a few, it's actually like a lot of studies that showed it in promotes cancer. All right, sugar. All right. Don't shoot the messenger. Right? I have no, I'm not promoting nothing. I'm not selling nothing. I was just shocked to how many of you guys got mad at me for saying maybe you guys shouldn't consume sugar. But let's go let's keep going. Right? So this study shows that this consumer consumption has a strong correlation to kidney disease and we had another one. In this study shows the high sugar diets can lead to yeast infections. Sugar can fuck with your reproductive health. So if you want to have some little I haven't sugar made the ministry of chances. Right? But it also weakens immune system. Assessive sugar can impair function of immune cells, reduces body's ability to fight infections. People who eat a lot of sugar get sick more. But people really think this is okay. The problem is it's addictive. You may think it's all right. But it's addictive. Here's another study from Mount Sinai Hospital where they said that sugar addiction is real. Here's the science behind and how to quit. You know, he's like, this is a real thing. Like sugar is addictive. And some studies show this as addictive as certain drugs. How do you stay in a caloric deficit if you're eating this shit that's like super addictive is as addictive as a lot of drugs. Now here's the thing about sugar. It's in a lot of your food and it's everywhere. Now some people may be looking at all that and they say, what is some good sugar and there's some bad sugar. Believe in it some sugars are good and while other sugars are bad is of fundamental misunderstanding of the sugar mark. The sucrose is in sugar. The sugar in your candy bar is the same as the white sugar. It's the table. It's the same as the sugar in your fruit. It's identical. Your body does not know the distinction. Now fruit. There is a difference in if you eat whole fruit. I'm going to talk about that in a minute. It's the same molecule this in honey, agave, all that right. It's all the same molecule and these molecules are sucrose glucose and fructose. These are the same molecules. And sucrose we're in chemistry class is sucrose is C12, H22, 11, glucose is C6, H12, O2, I mean O6 that that fructose is C6, H12, O6. And these are the molecules. The molecules are the same. The difference lies not in the sugar itself but in his packaging. When you eat whole fruits like bananas or oranges or or even apples right. It's the same molecules. However, it's a ton of fiber in that fruit. And that fiber actually causes the glucose and the sugar to be absorbed slower and you don't get the same spike in glucose levels. So if you're going to eat some of the sweet whole fruits, I really don't only like safe options, safe itch. You want some sweet the best choice is whole fruits. However, you need to understand that fruits they're natural, but fruit is all natural ish. This is what prehistoric watermelons look like. Very little of it was edible as opposed to now. You can see some watermelons without the seeds right. This is here's a banana now. You know bananas are like but back in the day it was like barely edible. It was different. It was smaller. You see what apples look like now but back in the day they were smaller than they were bitter. What happens is over the thousands of years we bred different fruits together and different strands of fruit to get what you can near grocery store. Now our ancestors would have never seen it apple the way we see it right. They wouldn't know what that was. Natural ish. It's natural the way a dog is natural like they're really wolves but we took all these wolves and we bred them into you know now you got a little dog you can fit in your pocket. We took wolves and bred them in a way where we made them how we wanted them but it's so natural ish. However it's still the best form of sweets. It's the only one I really recommend because it has the fiber. Now when you juice the fruit you really fuck it up right because now you took away all the fiber and now you just let behind pure sugar but you concentrate it the sugar. So that's why I did a glass of apple juice you need you know a few apples. You're just getting the sugar from the apple juice and throwing away the fiber to actual part is really healthy and you're just getting sugar and that sugar is the same sugar. Su-cross glucose and fru-co's is the same sugar this on your fucking table because that sugar came from a plant too. That sugar came from sugar cane like it was it's just been processed a little bit more but if you juice something you're it's a form of processing right? All those studies I showed you fruit juice is applicable to that as well. It's going to have the same effect as the fucking cool egg. Now yet as vitamins or antioxidants is better to get those vitamins and antioxidants from the fruit because you get the fiber too sugar is evil so I'm using all but it's refined sugar listen the molecule is the same on a molecular level it's the same as these molecules. That's what you need to stand in your body is going to process it in the same way. So all the negative stuff I told you about sugar applies to all forms of sugar from cake to juice and even honey like I know honey you know has a reputation for being a healthy food but on a on a chemical level it's the fucking same as table sugar. It's exactly the same. Now you may be thinking that honey has some antioxidants. Yeah but listen six tablespoons of honey had the same amount of antioxidants as one blueberry that's not hyperbably. Look it up one single blueberry so the amount of antioxidants are basically negligible honey is not a health food if you want antioxidants eat some blueberries if you're trying to avoid sugar you need to be aware of these misleading labels food industry it really pisses me off sometimes like the way they label stuff. I see this all in time they label shit makes you sound healthy you know it is sometimes the labels something called 100% natural or no sugar added that is the meaning of the half sugar and just because it's natural doesn't mean it's not full of sugar and it doesn't mean it's healthy just because it's natural there's a lot of sugar in nature the fucking kill your ass you want to go a god god in the woods with no bugs spray that's natural lime disease is natural baby it doesn't just natural doesn't mean it's good and it's still our sugar so 100% natural no sugar added only means there's no synthetic added to it that is not mean it's a sugar free product be be careful when it comes to that a lot of you guys are thinking at this point hey what about sweeteners what about artificial sweet some there are some studies show that there are some potential side effects to sweeters like ascertain uh sucreloce it's not better than real sugar ascertain is one of the most study is one of the most study compounds in human history i'm a political white doctor so you guys get it because if i just say it already knows going happy alright so we got pure worry should we be about artificial sweetness you know i don't know uh would be the short answer i i think that this is another one of those things where oh my my new he's a doctor he's a he's one of ton of wars he's not he's not like just some guy he's like a serious legit doctor check him out wait people really love to demonize these things um but if you if you really just want to look at the facts let's let's talk about facts right so as pertain which is the original kind of the OG sweetener uh everybody loves to demonize as pertain for neutral sweet but the reality of it is if there is toxicity to it it's probably impossible to measure at regular doses this is a substance that at least the last time i checked had more data on it from a safety perspective than any other molecule tested by the FDA you're kidding no it's it's just because again it's been around since the 1960s right come that saying hey listen no sweetener is better right but if we're talking about what i don't like is when people say that real sugar is better or natural sugar is better no it's fucking not i'm telling you man it this shit is bad for you consume the equivalent of 12 cans of diet soda a day it's safe probably not but we don't know right so um where do i think these sweetener so basically at regular doses it's probably negligible based off the information we have now if you don't have to believe me you can believe the doctor you know saying the critically acclaimed doctor award when inductor who said it right you don't have to believe me the best sweetener seemed to be with them with the least amount of side effects sweetener is like stevia and monk food oh seem to be the ones that are the safest if you need to use it don't be fooled by say moth regular sugar i just read natural sugar and then no it's it is fucking awful you will be way better off avoidance sugar how what does that look like for me i eat cake twice a year i have two cheat days a year that's the kind of moderation i'm talking about right if you want to do moderation you guys talk about it you do it like a few times a week or some shit now i mean that's too much like it needs to be a few times a year two cheat days a year one on Jesus birthday on Christmas i'll eat some cake and only time Jesus birthday and you know maybe like marlud the king's birthday or Juneteenth or something you know i have another piece of cake that's it now my son's birthday just pass i ain't even in that cake man i was looking at the thoughts like y'all discuss me man i don't even know cake on my birthday then i don't know that shit i'm telling you man it's not it's not what's up i highly suggest you avoid sugar in all its forms including fruit juice oh nothing about fruit juice calories bro yeah a glass of orange juice on average has 112 calories right it's like gel man do you really want to drink all these extra calories right just for some vitamin c you could just look at vitamin c vitamin fruit juice is the mother fucking scam right eat the real fruit i don't eat none of it i don't really i eat some berries sometimes because you can have that only i'm on a ketogenic diet so i eat berries sometimes because it's low so i'm a glassy me index it has the the least amount of sugar in it registered to fiber and it doesn't spike your glucose different berries have the most antioxidant of any fruit no candies and cakes no fucking treats eating snickers like a child you know none of that shit so you're gonna go through with draw symptoms initially once you want to try to win yourself out for this but the beauty of it especially when you're not doing it moderately what's gonna happen is the cradiness are going to go away i want the mash rules the other night my favorite restaurant with some of the homies and they all got the butter cake which is maybe the best tasting thing i've ever eaten in my life i'm beyond so i'm just kidding and i wasn't even tempted i watched them eat it i was like your man makes you get some of that at the middle man get you got to get that middle butter cake i was but i wasn't like tempted to eat any of it the temptation goes away once you get rid of your mother fucking addiction i lot of you got to think man i can never give up that i can never get bit because you're an addict bro you know you'd be better off without eating this shit right but you want to you're gonna come with all sorts of rationalizations because that's what mother fucking dope things do man i spend enough time around dope means no that they're rationalize it shit i'm telling you once you want but once you get through the withdrawing pimps you're gonna notice you have more energy you're skinny be clear you won't be aging as fast you'll be looking younger my focus be like your brand and you forty two man i thought you was younger than that i'm like oh man i don't eat like a child like you you was like what's your skin routine nothing i just don't eat the same bullshit you eat homie hey if you want some more i want another video on how you can actually follow a diet that will increase your energy right so you can deploy that energy against your goals make more money increase your cognitive performance so you can actually think better and become smarter i got another video that should go all about that somewhere right here my video editor is put it up you can check it out alright you

I'm Brandon Carter, endorsed Andrew Tate for Prime Minister of Britain. Andrew Tate is back in the news. Andrew, friend of the show, friend of mine, is back in the news. And now he's running for Prime Minister of England. Now listen, I don't know a lot about British politics. But in America, you have to be born here. We're here to be present. I guess maybe they don't have those laws because Tate was born in Chicago. Last night, he got the accent kind of as far as I know he's an American citizen. But Tate don't care about the rules. The majors can't stop him. Andrew Tate moles run for Prime Minister. People throwing out two small details. Why the matrix have to use this image of him? Who is this hole in my screen? Get her off it here. I don't know to stop it. The fucking holes on my shit man. White women get off my shit. All right. So Andrew Tate asks his social media followers whether he should make a run for Prime Minister of the UK. But people will quick the point out two small issues. The controversial social media influencer took the X. Still weird to say. Sure. The after in La Musta cleared war on Niggle Farrell. In I said that Niggle didn't have what it takes to be Prime Minister. Right? Tate says this is a serious post. He's serious, right? But it takes long to people to flag two small issues. Tate is currently under house arrest still in Romania. He has investigations over new and serious allegations including stuff I don't want to say on YouTube. Who is this white woman? The majors is attacking me trying to distract me. Will white women? Well, I'm trying to give you all the truth. Prosecutes is a cute say to his brother of a buy four luxury cars and registered in the United States bubble. And he's under some of it different investigations in the UK as well. You know, listen man, he put a pole on. Should he run for Prime Minister? And the Athens war? No or save Britain. He probably didn't own purpose. This is fucking this chess man. Not checkers. All right. And now lately, a recent development is that Elon Musk came out in support of the big home. Elon says the takement. He's not wrong. And he backs. I'm not going to say that. Why why do I make just have to put that there? He backs Andrew Tate for bid as UK Prime Minister. Hold on for a sec. I have to know this now. Do you have to be born in the UK to run for Prime Minister? No, you don't have to be born in the UK to become Prime Minister. You just need to be a British citizen. Be at least 18 years old and be a member of Kylamant. Look at his little anybody doing. He's not like then America. You have to be born here. You would like you literally have to be born in America to be president. Sorry, I know that was your dream. Anyway, Elon Musk is on his side. You know, most things you can do it. I guess I guess they homies. They both down with Trump. Elon's involvement in British politics has sparked a fresh debate with the takement in areas expressing support for Andrew Tate. Shout out to both of them brothers today. A former kickbox of face and serious criminal allegations, allegations, just out of mirror allegations in his bid for UK Prime Minister. Then the piece reports, Musk, who is previously called for King Charles the Third to dissolve Parliament in a whole general election, has been vocal about his concerns regarding child grooming gangs in the UK despite an existing natural inquiry. Musk has criticized Labour Party leader for not addressing the issue more thoroughly. And even demand it is recognition on his ex-account. Now, Musk appears to have thrown his wake behind Tate. Let's go. With what he gets despite Tate's controversial parents. Musk endorsed a post that praised Tate's entry into British politics, agreeing with the statement that Tate's actions could transform British politics. Let's go and create a movement of men demand in change. Tate was previously banned on ex, who was comments on SA recently announced his attention to one for Prime Minister despite his lack of political expertise and fundamental misunderstanding of British politics. Why they say that? They don't know that. They don't know what he understands. In the post to his millions of followers on ex, he jokingly acts if he should run forever president and save a mispelled version of Britain. Right? But here's the thing, man. He is wasn't a joke, man. I think he was serious. What do y'all think, man? I'm not British. I don't have no course in his race. Oh, and he started in a new political party. What is all these ads? Why is the matrix trying to fucking stop me from giving out a truth? And you take the bruv party. The Britain restoring underlying new values party will restore the once great Britain. As a leader, I am fully accountable. If the plan has not been action and within 45 days of power, I will step down from leadership. No delays. The charter below joined the movement show more. Let's see what's up. So this is the website for Andrew Tate's political party, man. We got the bishop in there because you know, he sucks with chess. Britain restoring underlying values. This is a war to reclaim Britain. No excuses. No compromises. No second chances. We will defend our borders. Crush crime, purge corruption, and restore pride to a nation under siege. Fuck how bad is it over there? What are y'all going to do? I didn't know it was that bit. Britain will rise again. Stronger under unyielding, unparalleled if you want safety, power, and freedom join the fight. Time for talk is over. It's action or nothing. Listen, I'm from America. So this cool. I got some friends over in UK that's dope, man. We did fuck them up. Twice. Look at tech to score board, brits, revolution, war of 1812. They tried to come back in 1812. Like they tried to run it back. Said they had back home again. Yo, I was in Italy. I was in a mafia. You know, it was like on this like coast. I started something that's old British man. We were just talking. He's talking from UK. And I was like, man, you ever think about it, man. He's my fuckest fall way Hitler. And this motherfucker is to mean, but we had to fight on ourselves because America was too scared to jump into fight in the beginning. And I said, you listen to me, oh man, we saved your fucking ass. You let Hitler bomb your capital. And we had to come through fucking flexing that muscle. We are both just joking. Anyway, I fuck with Britain. All right, let's see what the core values are. This 41 tenants, I reserved the human right to hold my own beliefs and practice them as I see fit and allow other people to same right to believe in the act as they wish that's 10 it to. All right. What the fuck is this? While I'm on the site, my book is about the real world. Listen, this nigga Trump was selling motherfucking watches. He sold a guitar. They came out with guitars. My man, I said a real world. Why he's running up and for 11 warning, concentrary relationships with beautiful positive and virtuous women. Saying, I believe men and women are different. And they each have their own unique and important strengths and abilities. I fuck with it. I don't cook. You got the ability to get that kitchen. Where is my sandwich? I'm just joking, joking. I don't even breathe. This 41 of these motherfuckers. All right, I believe men have the sacred duty to protect and provide for the important people in their lives. I fuck with that. This is like AI tape. This picture right here looks like a nigga, like somebody's rather draw a tape for memory. I believe men have the sacred duty to protect the innocent and sanctity of their children and reserve the right in a response belief to raise their children as they see best fit to ensure their long-term happiness success. I'll fuck with that. Here's the same thing I disagree with yet. Maybe he should be Prime Minister. I believe men have the sacred duty to raise strong, capable, honorable sons. I'm doing that same shit. It's all my niggas who got daughters. Sorry, man. You win some, you lose some. Oh, okay, now you don't talk about the daughters. I believe men have the sacred duty to raise kind, feminine, and virtue with daughters. If God would have cursed me to have the misfortune of having a daughter instead of my strong, amazing perfect son. I would raise her to be a boxer. Maybe he'd put her in Brazil and you just who I would literally hope to she was a lesbian. But that's his me. I'm gonna have a son no matter what. You know, I had to make this chicken son. I was gonna have a son as usual. The guy's shined on me. I utterly disapprove of violence within a romantic or familial relationship. Same, man. Chris Brown told us we can't hit women. And I saw that. I was like, mmm, noted. I've been hit by women before though. Yeah, man, morning once. I'll be the shit out of a cousin though. He's here for a million. He relates. I don't know, one of my male cousins thought crazy. Oh, fuck him up. But whatever, we're gonna greet him. There's a creature on that part. I support good and honest governments and will obey only their laws. I prefer to only conduct business than to address that. Is this still we're in running for Prime Minister? I believe that a man has the sacred duty to hold true to his word and do exactly what he says we do. I'm fucking with this shit, you know, but I have really seen the same policy decisions. This is what we really want. Brother Farty, the call to restored Britain. That's what's up. This isn't about empty promises or lifelong Korean apolitics. It's about results. Everything I pledge comes to a strict time limit. If I don't deliver, I step down. No excuses. No hiding. No second chances. All right. Unlike career politicians who cling the power while achieving nothing, I will hold myself accountable to the same standards. I demand a purpose. If I fail, I face the consequences because leadership is about service. Not self-preservation. This is a mission. Not a rain. And it is the moment it stops delivering to the British people. We can say Britain quickly with the media and decisive action. Unapologetic. Relic. For free. All right. Fucking right. Look around you. Look at what we become. I got friends of British. Britain, y'all tell me, is this how London looks now. Last time I was there was beautiful. I had a great time. A nation that once ruled the waves that stood as a beacon of strength and freedom. Now cowards under its own shadow. Our streets are dangerous. Our borders are wide open. Our culture is being eroded. This is in the Britain our ancestors fall for. This is in the Britain they died for. This cannot be the Britain we lead to our children. I didn't mean to do that. They deserve what the Britain died for. They deserve what you struggle for. We must in the generational failure. I'm not in London. Is it that bad? Is it that bad? I don't know. He paints a scary picture of what Britain was happening over there. Harsh migrant control. All right. Over 45,000 illegal migrants arrived on our shores last year. Each one calls in the British tax paper. 15,000 pounds annually. That's your heart on money. Funding people who have no respect for our borders are laws or our way of life. The solution is not one more boat lands on British soils. Also, we'll be leaving the UK. Fill with illegal immigrants and not a single one will be arriving on our shore. This is a campaign guarantee. God dammit. The royal name is Woport Frola Waters. And our message will be clear if you come here illegally, you will not set foot on land. Our borders are sacred. Our sovereignty is not negotiable. Let's I'm a Beyonc Jew. I fully endorse state for Prime Minister who because he will become my most powerful friend. I'll be like, you're a whole man. I'm texting the Prime Minister of Britain. So I definitely wanted to win. British men died for British soil in 1812. It's not yours. And you have no right to it. It's not a line on the map. It's the island defended with the lives of the brave. If you get on a boat, we won't let you in. We have no obligations to save you from that boat. No matter how rough the seas. You shouldn't have been on that fucking boat in the first place. You have no rights to rob a fucking land. And legal immigration will fall to zero. And of course by the royal navy. Don't come to our eye. Do not risk it. We do not offer salvation. Prime Minister Tate. I hope you win. knife crime epidemic. Yo, this is my funny shit in America. We have guns. So people say man is so dangerous. I'm like, wait, mean you're talking about knives. You're gonna focus out here fighting. Oh, in school. They took this night shit seriously. They use a mini swords now. Anyway, knife crime epidemic zero tolerance maximum the term. Last year over 50,000 knife crime offenses in England in Wales. Yo, yo, our one-sweet was in London. Kind of Murphy Beckham, we so worked with him. You're talking to his girl. And I was like being wingman. Right? She was like, oh, like from London, she said, now from Wales. And I knew what she meant. But I said, your parents are fish. I don't know. That was like the funniest thing I said. I don't have a case anyway. That's 137 every single day. How many people were shot in America last year? I'm not sure of the exact number since it's a complex and sensitive topic. Would you like me to look it up for you? Yeah. In 2024, approximately 11,600 people died from gun violence in the United States, according to ABC News. Additionally, over 31,000 people were injured by firearms during the same period, as reported by the gun violence archive. If that's true, that's crazy, right? If 30,000 people were shot in America, which is way bigger than UK. And 50,000 knife crimes were committed. That is pretty insane. I mean, this bitch be lying to me sometimes. I'm saying, but that isn't saying it's true. All right. No, punishment we've seen by every Britain every day, including BBC punishment. Well, I'm not going to punish anybody. Listen, I'm cool with tape, man, but I didn't agree the fucking punishment you want. I'm not in law enforcement say. Anyway, 24 hour live broadcast of knife crime offenders serving solitary confinement. Oh, BBC, he met big black cock, not big brand and Carter. Not just kidding. That's British broadcast channel. Okay. So basically, what's he saying? If you are called stabbing in the UK, then you have 24, seven live broadcasts of you in solitary confinement. No redemption, Arks. No second chance is just cold, or reality of life wasted in the Congress. Amen. If crime offenders stay at stake in office, better stop stabbing. Imagine a 15 year old boy tempted to pick up a blade, turning on a TV and seeing a man grow old and die alone. That's not cruelty, that's deterrence. And it will save lives. That's an interesting policy. Reform in the BBC, a rotten institution. The BBC was once the court is thrown over British culture. Today is the stain on our national name. Sexual assault scandals alleged, woof. I don't even want to say all this stuff. The BBC will be stripped down and rebuilt. Its mission will be factual reported not propaganda. The BBC will get its topics from X and have community note styles online system verification. That's interesting. Protecting our children and restore institutional values. It's going to change the schools. The UL that children as young as six are being exposed to graphic, LBGTQ plus material, not education is indoctrination. Is that really happening? I mean I guess it's it's listen. It's taste a district. Let me be clear. All LBGTQ plus propaganda will be banned from schools. You know what's funny? They made a law about banned and stuff in Florida. Which sounds fun on a surface. But it wasn't like really happening. Everybody had no way kids in Florida include my nieces and nephews. They were never getting no gay homework. Like it wasn't a thing. I know a lot of people with kids are in it just wasn't happening. Maybe it's happening. Maybe they didn't get gay homework. They didn't get gay homework in the UK. Did you know that, Nima? I just found out. They're getting transsexual book reports. Gay homework. It upset about it. I haven't seen it in the real life. I don't even know when he third party gets counts of it that I could verify. In America. But hey man, if this happened in Europe, I think that's where like gay's come from. You know like vampire's come for transsevanging and then the spreads. I think homo says you're likely started in Europe. I think that makes a lot of sense. Tate's gonna fix it, though. Restoring British culture and identity. Captain hybridist residence at 10% of the population. Whoa, that's interesting. It's funny because he's an immigrant. He's from Chicago. He's a man. I'm in this bitch. With y'all can't come. No more. And I stand with Tate. Men died for our flag. It should be seen on the streets. Ensure every street in Britain feels British. With English traditional architects, your flag. You know, put English it on every street. Kind of like it's gonna look like this. I'll put it. I like it. I love going to the UK. Every time I'm there, I only go to London right because of where I'll see it. And then I'll wear the other one. My go to a fucking Hogwarts. Yeah, I've been like, oh, this is like a silly version of the Europe. Like the streets are all tiny. The cops don't have guns. Move bugging. Everybody sounds like Peppa Pig. What else you got on the agenda? Revolutionized education, building the future future Britain's investing where it matters. I always go put the money, man. For decades, Britain's has spent 14 billion pounds annually on foreign aid. So, he's gonna cut that, man. He's gonna fund the nation. No more foreign aid. No more foreign wars. It were really talking about, you know, restoring the British identity then foreign wars is kind of a, it's kind of a stable. That's what they do. You know, like historically foreign wars is their shit. No? I mean, there might be nothing more British than a foreign war. But I guess not another to take regime. All right, accountability and government. I like that. You know that over 30% of MPs failed to meet their basic attendance status. I don't know when none of this means I know what the MK is. BMP. I'm just gonna know. Zero tolerance on crap. What I really like about this is this tastes really. He's really in Brace Day. I make me an image of a British police officer in the middle of the street in London. See, it comes over with the exact thing. Yo, look what it comes up. So it came up with. That's pretty similar to this. That's what's up. I mean, A.I.S. the future. I'm fucking with A.I. too. So me and Tate on the same page. For those born here, we'll put 25,000 plain coes officers in London alone. By the defenders will face the fool fat. I'm down with that. Transparent and fear attack system. All right. New simplified tax code. You can understand in the 20 minutes. Know hidden pitfalls or penalties for getting rich. You know you want to change that tax code. I feel you brother. The one thing I would change is the tax code in United States. And I know he was the change because they say how much the date they find him 3 million. He got that. You know what change the tax code, man. Geez. We're storing masculinity in strength. The foundation of a thrive in nation has gone through that. Week men build weak nations. Britain's the client is rooted in the culture that's forgotten his value. Straight discipline of resilience. To restore the nation's greatness. We must rebuild its backbone strong into protect and lead boxing and wrestling schools. License arms security. It's strong or future for Britain. Laying the foundation in the independence and prosperity. National Bitcoin reserve. All right. No, so take wins. We buy a Bitcoin. New killer power for energy independence. All right. Stronger future for Britain laying the foundations independent prosperity. Creating the ministry of future revamp revoked in system for a policy. All right. Cool. Can women vote. He's going to let women vote. All right. That's cool. God. That acts. Neither of these policies and declarations of freedom. A future where Britain stands strong independent and is unshacoable. All right. No law. Grab the mercy of external forces. This is the foundation of a new era in our nation. This vision. A Britain that's proud. Strong. An unyielding. A Britain that defends his borders protects his people and celebrates his code. I haven't read anything about your internet about taking India back. But you know, obviously, I'm going to hit him up. I'm a text. I'm going to see if he needs me to be on the in the administration somehow. All right. This is going to be the administration. It's going to be Justin Justin's going to be the secretary of white women. Justin walk. Certainly, Google is the part of the justice. Obviously, Tristan is going to be Secretary of State. If not vice president. You know, now I want to be vice president. I want to be in charge of all vices. They don't have that there. I like where this is going. All right. Call the action. Boom. The broad part. Messying up. Listen. You brits. You brits get you shit to get the sign up, man. I want all of the fucking brits to sign up for the ship. I join in line. Must in my support for the homey Andrew crime minister. So I need all my British people. I need central seat. Skeptop, pep a pig. Mr. Bean. Russell Brand. The nigga from Virgin Atlanta. He just elbow. We all got a united galvanizer around and say I need all my British niggas to do this shit, man. Austin Powers. James Bond. It would need Pierce Morgan. Harry Potter. Voldemort. We need all the mother to galvanize for the brother party. Christian Bell. Emma Watson. Orlando Bloom. Peppa Picks whole family need to be in that bitch. Bennings and bear. Gordon Ramsay. Pails kitchen. Simon from motherfucking American Idol. Crazy Spice. Was the black spice girl? David Beckham. Adele. All these motherfuckers. Menless get it. I Brandon Carter. Endors. Andrew tape. We're prime minister of Britain.

We out, get your net up to one of the tight. Get into the bend, don't stop. Get into the bend, don't stop. Get into the bend, don't stop. Get the catch up, cause I'm a liar with me, no, you're paying it. If you know what I would have, what I'd have, welcome to another thing in the life starting this day at 7 a.m. I usually get up earlier than this, but it's the NBA playoffs. I'm black, so I gotta stay up and watch the NBA playoffs. Usually I'll wing up at 4.30 or 5.30. But I feel like that's not even bad ass, no more. But now as should all waking up at 3.30. I see what's watching talking about, he wakes up at 2.30. Next year, cause they ain't even gonna be sleeping. All right, so I got a busy day today. I'm gonna be doing my two favorite things, making money, spending time with my friends and family. First thing I'm gonna do today is these two injections. This is testosterone. You gotta know, I've been on testosterone, placement therapy, and we have testosterone. Is up. Head tired, I'm taking now. It's supposed to help me burn a bad and build muscle. We'll see, it's only the first we got this day. All right, so this is how much testosterone I inject twice a week. Here's the testosterone, how much this is every morning. I now about the head to the gym, work out with the homey Austin Dunn. I'm gonna have seen him from the internet. We first started his fitness business. The dude who was running, the show behind the scenes, the name of Gail. As a dude who I mentor, then used to work for me. We were all set first long since I was on my training team. He was running some ads and Gail called me panic in because he was on the getting commission. And Austin, they know I was actually running the ads behind the scenes. And that was back when he was in college. Now he's doing a really good man. We still could salt with them. We still help him out. And I was just super proud. We got the link up with him, you know, work out in. Get some updates. He just moved to Miami. So that's interesting too. You know, met up with the homey man, Austin. Yo, let's have guys. You just moved in my hand, right? I did finally, long time coming. Yeah. I don't know what took me so long, but I finally did it. Using Orlando Orlando. Orlando. Yeah. What's the difference between Orlando and my engine? So Orlando's the biggest sea I've ever lived in in my life. So at the time, it called like a tier one city. But so far, the biggest difference is the diversity of people. Orlando has a bit of a more suburb sort of life. Burses Miami's a lot of city. I told myself, right now, I'm still going to use to it. Like just driving and having to pay the park everywhere. There. Drivers here are crazy too. I mean, that's a huge difference. Assault I'm doing is wacky shit. I was like, you know, fucking this bro. Look, look. It's this scapular pull-up. It's the warm-up of before we do what we're about to do. So, so you can see. So you can see. You're all right. Okay. I'm all the scap, the muscles. There you go, perfect. Yeah. Yeah, that's it. Do about 10. 4. So, use that out of my chain, though, but I didn't bring it with me. So, we're going to sort of just put the weight between our legs and try to do way to pull this that way. I ain't for a higher F-sistime. They hang when you well obey. They're stepping the blouses. I'm hanging the my hand. They're the glissing. They're feeling like I'm floating. I'm lost in the moment. I swackered 11. So, we're going to do a brand-news favorite. This is when I actually learned from him back in 2017. I had to set him straight. They hang when you well obey. I just got back from that workout with Austin. I met Austin back when he was in college. Right? Now he's up in the millionaire in his 20s. And the thing that really helped him do is that was build in his social media around all my fitness. Real estate built it up as YouTube and his Instagram at the time, TikTok didn't exist. And it helped make him a millionaire. It made me a multi-millionaire. And the thing is now, it's easier than ever to actually build a following as a whole lot of fitness and I know people think it's over-satch-rated or as to many people do it. But now it's easier now because more people are into it. The market is bigger now than it was back then. So now I'm about to eat breakfast. My girl, my novice who compared his breakfast from me. Six eggs. I have six bacons. Blueberries. You can eat berries on keto. I drink coax here. I know glad y'all won't put this in the scared of artificial sweetener. Artificial sweetener may be bad for you. But not for me. So I'm going to throw everything down. So wait, the syphilms out of the macros. So eat trisha to breakfast. So not everybody knows this about me. But I've been trading every morning for the last five years. I'm trading Nasdaq futures. And today I made $11,000. I'm trading with a prop firm. And I have a bunch of fun-did accounts. And each one, profit it about $5,600. You add that up. Times 20. It's about 11 grand. The CDs are 150k accounts. And each one is up over about 10 grand. $200,000. Over the last few months. Propeted about $2,000. They won't pay me. They won't let me take it all out of the wants. But they did send me money. I'm showing normal color of the account numbers for security reasons. But you can see the other day. I request it. This much for each account. And one of them got denied for some reason. But all the other ones got approved. So you gave me $50k. I'm trading with their money. I'm not even trading with my money. When I first started, I had to trade my money. It was more. Maybe more than I was kind of trading pussy. But now I'm trading with their money. I'm just throwing it around. Maybe give it. But I've gotten pretty good at it. If you want to learn how to do this, you're doing a lot of things. Well, I'll show you exactly how to trade futures. How to get a fun-did account. You can do it using your own money. This is perfect for people who don't have a lot of cash. When I was trading with my own money, I had to have like $100k in think or swim to make it happen. But now I'm using their money and I got my money. You do another stuff. You want to learn all about this. I'm doing a free training on it. Click the link in the description. Now I'm about to do this thing where I work with my students in HTT. I take a trainer where I teach them how to go to their own life in his businesses. And I have a live call with them every week. I start to call as all the same. How much money you make this week? You'll see, man. It's always amazing. It's my favorite part of week. Right now we're at a nice shape. I'm probably going to hit like 50k this much. So right now we're at 9. Probably going to get 15 this month or thing? I'm going to hit 50k. You're going to. All right. Yeah, yeah. Because we still got a lot of muffler. We're going to make your congratulations, man. Let's give my mid-Jocelyn around for applause. 9,536 dollars in the last seven days. In the last seven days. Shout out to you. And the Jeremy round of applause, man. ACT alumnus. 30% 50. Last Friday. 3,250, the last five days. No, no, let's go. 50,750 last week, last seven days. We're sitting at 12,000 for the month. So we need to get to 15. Come on, man. There's a lot of mufflers. Let's give Adam a round of applause. Let's go. Last week was a pretty good eight thousand to $100. Last week. Last week. It's $1,200. Yeah, pretty good week. We got $3,500 for the week. And right now we are sitting just over in 19k. My goal is to get to 25. Come on, man. Let's get Chris around them. Let's go. Alright, so what's happening now is I'm about to go and shoot two podcasts at this podcast studio. I never been here before. And I don't even know the people I'm doing in a viewway. Alright, so I got to the podcast studio. Talk to the home Abraham. You. I said, you know what's purple leaf is that he said it was 50. And that's what I wanted. That's what I like the shoot on. You know, because it makes you look different. It should make you look different. I've known the leaders that make you look the most authentic to use. Gonna be anywhere between 35 to 50. But 50's just what makes everything look aesthetic. Yeah. It's saying make you look good. I think that's what that's a good quote to for you. More fuck is me. When I found out where this podcast is getting shot at, they sent me the address. I looked at it and it said this. And that's not what was to trap. You know what I'm saying? I thought this was like a hood. You know, so like I got two different guns on me. You know, some more fuck is brain extra magazines. How does brain extra pistols? Here comes the anger. It's how to reload. I just grab you. I just dig. I just pull another gun off my waist. But it actually ain't bad here. It just, I think this is a old photograph. It all look like there's no more. But I can't leave. I came by black John, wake up in this bitch man. Jamal, wait. It's not crazy. I'm gonna take a box. You gon' play me. When he in the tax box I get paid with a bag. So what's happening now is we're gonna do a apartment hunt. You know, the condo might be going out of it. You know. So now we got to, we got to look at some bigger places. Now we can't downgrade. We got here, prime and elevator. Four balconies, five bedrooms, three bedrooms. I can't be at her downgrade. She's sick. Six bedroom. Six bedroom. We got sick, baby. Right around balcony. What are you guys looking for? That's what we're looking for. Oh, that's what you're looking for. I was saying, when we already had, we gotta go up to that. So now she's looking for six bedrooms. She's up. Video guy Nima is filming it, but he's also driving up there. All right, so we just checked out the first place. We don't, this building is real fancy. We're fancy in our building, but our unit is better. It's not up great. And check out another place that may be more our style here. There was something weird about this building. Nobody who's working here, none of the residents, no one smile. The old time I didn't see one smile in there. Everybody's acting weird. Like to begin in a horror movie, and they go to a town and everybody's acting strange. That's what it felt like in the air, man. I ain't like in it all. It's just the vibes we're all. Three years, I've never been in a pool in my building. I can swim really good too. I know you don't think I can, because I'm black, but I can swim. I like the pool. I like this place a lot that Jim was kind of, I like the unit a lot. Again, even though it's still smaller than our unit, we have more balconies. That's my man, black man. Number one real estate agent in Miami, man. What's the Instagram again? The dot-backslur.age. That's how I found him. His Instagram is really cool. Real estate content. I never seen no real estate content like that. It was amazing. The other time that we both got a lot of mutual friends. Yeah, yeah. I didn't make sure it wasn't a post-edator when I was a post or when I see the DME. Oh, yeah. That's a good thing. And I check up against really have cool friends. But sure, man. Thank you for showing us around, brother. Alright, so I'm back at the crib. What's about to happen now is I'm about to go live on YouTube where I do my podcast. I do it live. We get people advice and shit. It's pretty awesome. You should be tuning, victory top. A lot of people can't do it if podcast live. They've edited and shit. We just do it live. Yeah, they're gonna make a mistake. I know I'm gonna make some mistakes. I just don't give a fuck. Let me show you how to podcast, dude. You're right quick. Yo, first of all, I got a lot of shit here. First thing I got is a NEMA. You gotta have a NEMA in your podcast, dude. Yeah. Yo, what's going on with me? Yeah, it was good. It was good. Look at it. Look at it. It's set up. It's a like NASA. Yeah. Femalmuthis shitty is me. So we got the video suture. Or here. We got like to write now. We are using trick cameras. We can increase the 5, 6 based on the guest. We got the roadcaster for monitoring the audio. We got the SSD to record. We got this monitor for switching live between the camera. Make sure audio is great. Use a string guard for string on YouTube. And over here, we just monitor everything. Making sure the system goes perfectly and smoothly. This is how you switch all the cameras. Yes, this is how we switch between cameras. Make mute people using the roadcaster. And yeah, that's about it. And the way you got this mic to show. This is a good mic. This is a fantastic mic. This is really easy to use my but great quality. It's XLR cable. And that's how kind of a country is the mic to make sure the audio of the guest. You is always perfect. So we got a fantastic and high quality show. Yo, will you show mics? You know, you use road mics. I don't like road mics. You know, because people, you know, road, I has the podcast to probe. And every time I hear somebody speaking in it, it's like the high-end sound, harsh to me. Yeah, I used to be an ICU. I'm going to have a small studio on Queens. I don't know the other side. I know a lot about audio engineer. And I don't like the sound of those mics. But the shore mics. Like, that one. That's like a big version of this one. Yeah. And that one used to be my office and that one's for guests. Yeah. This is this mic right here. This is the SM7B. People don't notice me. You heard of my projection? I can't stop. Okay. I'm going to have a projection recorded the whole thriller album on one of these. You know, why? Because this mic, it brings out the bass. A little bit of it has like a... And the highs aren't harsh. Like the road mics, the high ends are harsh to treble. But this is like, it makes it your voice fuller and bassy are almost. And he needed that because he was the outowed. You had a real high voice. Oh. So, there we have these lights. Lights is the most important part. For sure. Rolex clock. And of course, cameras. You'll be only used Sony cameras. As if right now this is a GoPro. But we'll be moving a make it be you Sony. All right. Sony. Sony. Sony. Sony. Sony. Sony. Sony. Sony. Yeah. Yeah. I got a bunch of shit over here. This is a computer I forgot I had. Oh, we got some on top replay. Obviously, he's sponsored a show with this real product. But real product really coming out easy to plot. It's pretty cute. That's the way I like this shit. He got this shit rotate in. That's dope. And we got these phone. So this makes the sound better. And then we got the. Carp. And we got the books. My girl put the books. Yeah. It's you put the books in color code. That makes it. That makes it easier to find. Because before I didn't have a little system. I just had my books in New York just any kind of way. It would be forever to find a book I'll look at for. All right. And now it's like somebody else may go maybe worse profit first. Or something first to blue. Boom. Got it. You know, shit. And then another balcony. This is where I have the night. That's a bike. I'd be out here doing my lies on this. So those are my their chilling reading. So those are bringing a guitar out here and start playing. You know, serenade. The people look good. People have this game Boulevard. Oh, so this computer. This is not a computer. It's a laptop. And this is so I can see what's going on. It's like, it mirrors yours. Yeah. It mirrors this one so you can be can message you. Yeah. The lia man. You can't be kind of so many comments. So I can't control this. I'm just seeing what's going on. It's something he can talk to me. He brings up a doc. With my girl in him. They have access to the doc's a shared doc. And they can say stuff to me. And I have my computer here. This is one of my computers. This is like my podcast computer and my travel computer. But I'm wanting to share something or talk about something. And then I'll hook my iPad up to this to start drawing. And then I'm drinking water, agwah. Keep a calculator here. My son Jamie, this is Iron Man, Lego. Because he knows I love Iron Man. But let's start the show. Let's start the show. Think about your drinker. What does she look like? What does she smell like? What does she do for a little? What's a personality like? Now imagine. Think that she's sitting around. Think her bank and herself. To a month of a talking shit. The stranger's on the internet. Do you think the desk or I deal with me? You think she got a poster at that month? What she was growing up. She had a she envisioned. Me and a month of like that. No, yeah, yeah. That's her up. The desk or rat man. Another podcast. I didn't get to any of the stuff that I had. Because it was so many questions. You know, sometimes I'm going to say answer the question about it. You'll be that kind of thing, man. What did you think of the pet? I think that was a fantastic episode. Even although you didn't get a chance to do that video, you prepared. But you still got the really cool real out of this. Yeah, you know what we do is just do the lot of podcasts. And I prep stuff on the safe. Talk about it. And then the name of the takes that. And then the thing they take is something from name. This team, Harry, and his team. They take that footage. And then they make the long form YouTube video. Sometimes sure that sort of podcast is like the new Gilles of our content engine. You know, it's a pretty cool system. But I'd everybody can do a podcast live and make it good.