There's a powder and about 10 grams of it physically blocks glucose from being absorbed when you eat bread, rice, pasta, pastries, heck, even sugar, refined carbs. And it doesn't change your hormones. And it doesn't do this by altering metabolism. It forms an actual gel barrier inside your gut that slows everything down in real time. But this powder is only half the story because I'm talking about psyllium. It's nothing you haven't heard of. It's just about how you use it. You have to time it right and you have to mix it a specific way. So, we're going to cover four things. First, the gel barrier and how that works and how we can use psyllium properly, but also a mistake that makes it not work. Then, we're going to talk about a rapidfire stack of add-ons that target completely different mechanisms. Then, I'm going to cover a 2-minute postmeal move that bypasses insulin entirely. And then, I'm going to get to that gut protective amino acid that lets carbs absorb the way they should absorb. Now, the powder is psyllium husk, right? It's just a soluble fiber. But before you write it off as just that, we need to look at how psyllium works differently from other fibers and how it works physically. When psyllium hits liquid, it forms a viscous gel. Okay? When that gel is in your gut before a carbal arrives, it slows the rate that your enzymes can break down starch and it slows the rate that glucose gets absorbed at the intestinal wall. So, it's a physical blockade. Okay? It's not hormonal. It's not metabolic. It's not gut ingrin. It's wrapping your cars in a slowrelease coating from the inside. There was a 2024 meta analysis. Okay. Looked at 19 RCTs. 900 plus participants found that psyllium decreased your blood sugar, the HbA1c and homir, which is like markers of insulin resistance. And all they did is give them about 10 grams every day. Now, over the long term, they found that it had even stronger effects on like long-term insulin resistance. So, it actually works acutely as a glucose blunter, but it works chronically as an insulin sensitivity tool, but the mistake that people make is that they'll dump psyllium into water and they'll mix it and they'll drink it. The thing is that does very little for what we're talking about in the acute setting. It definitely gives you fiber. That's great, but the mechanism that we're after depends on the gel forming before it reaches your stomach. Dry powder mixed with water is fiber. If you let it turn into a gel, it's a barrier. And that kind of sucks to get down. But if you mix 5 to 10 grams in water and then you wait 60 or 90 seconds for it to thicken, then you drink it 5 minutes or so before your carbs, that timing is everything because the barrier has to be in place before the bread shows up. 5 g before lunch, 5 g before dinner, both as like a pre-formed gel. That hits that 10 g mark that you need for from the meta analysis to actually see the legit data and you're covering your two potentially biggest carb meals. And if you only do it once, just do it before your largest meal at the end of the day or your large whenever you have your largest meal or your large larger carb meal I should say. Psyllium handles the absorption side. So this is fascinating. But from the enzyme side, the stomach emptying side, the receptor sensitivity side, these are some things that you can throw these little add-ons in to hit a little bit of a different angle. So we'll rip through these really fast, but before I get into those, I popped the link down below for something that might help you out. It is a 20% off discount link for Seed Symbiotic. That is the only probiotic I recommend. Literally the only one I've ever recommended. So, that link is in the top line of description. It has a prebiotic and a probiotic in one capsule. It's not something that would replace fiber. It's something that you would want to consider taking in addition to all this just to help your body utilize glucose better because it all starts in the gut. If you have the right microbiome, then you'll utilize glucose better. So, that link is for 20% off the prebiotic and probiotic. That's all together in one capsule from Seed. So, it's top line of the description underneath this. Let's move rapid fire into these things that you can do additionally. Apple cider vinegar. Okay. One tablespoon in water 5 10 minutes before the meal. Okay. The acetic acid slows the gastric emptying and basically it slows the stomach exit speed. So it's a different mechanism than psyllium but it works really well with it. Lemon juice which you can mix with the apple cider vinegar but you could also put it on top of your carbs on top of your rice on top of your potatoes just a tiny bit because a citric acid inhibits amalayise which is the enzyme that breaks starch into glucose. So that's the very first step in this whole chain that you basically slow down. Cinnamon literally could mix this into veggies. You wouldn't even taste it. All you need is a half a teaspoon with the meal because the polyphenols and cinnamon enhance the insulin receptor signaling through something called UR one. Okay? So your body clears the same amount of glucose but it doesn't have to use as much insulin. Then I've talked about this in other videos too like dandelion greens. Okay? A small just little teeny teeny handful of dandelion greens actually slows gastric emptying and improves the insulin function by working on a hormonal gut incretin axis something you can just add into the mix. I mean if you tie that in together along with the other things I've talked about eating your veggies your proteins first and then your carbs that alone lowers your glucose by 30% postprandial. Imagine how that works with the psyllium and all this stuff. You're really just batting a thousand on cutting the glucose response and effectively limiting your risk of insulin resistance development. Now, the minimum effective stack that I would want you to do is the psyllium gel before the meal and then eat your protein and veggies first, carbs last. Those two levers, that's simple enough, right? That is going to do a lot without overthinking it. Now, there's another thing that we can throw into the mix. Isometrics. Okay, we know that walking is good after a workout. Really powerful stuff. We've seen the literature showing that just 2 minutes of walking can lower your glucose. But isometrics, doing a push-up and holding in the bottom of a push-up position. This actually increases glucose uptake just as much as walking. You can even do things like this where you squeeze your palms together and you do this and you flex because anytime the muscle contracts, it transllocates glute 4 up to the outer membrane of the cell to soak up glucose. So you can't go for a walk. literally sit there and do like isometric contractions where you like pretend you have a barbell and you're who cares what people think if you're metabolically healthy, right? I mean, you don't have to go to extremes and do it in front of everybody. Go to the bathroom and do a wall sit inside the stall. Who cares? I mean, I don't know, you might get some sickness, but at least you'll be lean. Now, I know we're moving fast through this and everything I've talked about so far has been like glucose management, but the gut needs to be taken care of, too. And this is where there's an interesting compound, a simple amino. It's called Lcerene. And most people haven't heard of this in a gut context, but the data is strong. Okay, there was a study in the journal of functional foods found that lcerene prevented intestinal inflammation and stopped barrier damage under inflammatory stress. So it maintained the tight junctions within the gut, which are the proteins that hold your gut lining together. And it did this by improving glutathione synthesis and EMPK activation. So you're probably wondering like what does this have to do with glucose? Bottom line is it's upregulating the antioxidant systems that are in your body in your intestinal tissue. Every time you eat, your body deals with the stress and it triggers a stressful response that can cause inflammation. But if your gut is damaged more and glutathione is depleted, then your gut barrier integrity breaks down even more and you are going to have a worse glucose response simply because you're going to have a stronger inflammatory response from the food that you eat. more inflammation is going to get in the way of insulin signaling. So Lcerine feeds directly into this antioxidant pathway because it's a precursor for glycine and cyine. So you're giving your body essentially like your gut the raw materials to build a defense and this alone is blocking some of the inflammatory response. So I recommend two to three grams of serarine daily if you're doing these things for the gut like the fiber and you're trying to improve glucose tolerance and you're trying to reduce insulin resistance. It doesn't seem like they go hand in hand, but they do. Like, think of serion as like the gut lining's maintenance crew that works behind the scenes so that psyllium and the stack that we talked about can actually handle the glucose management up front. Because if the gut is damaged, then you're absorbing all kinds of other stuff and trigger an inflammatory cascade that causes bigger problems. insulin resistance is an inflammatory condition. It is not a carbohydrate management condition. It's an inflammatory situation that causes the mismanagement of glucose. So, psyllium gel before the meal, ACV, lemon, cinnamon, dandelion greens or bitter greens, veggies and protein first, carbs last, isometrics, and lcerine to protect the gut. And I did another video that talks about glutamine, particularly when you're stressed, because glutamine can be very, very helpful at protecting the gut and taking the stress off the immune system. So once again, inflammatory markers can come down and you don't spike and feel so inflamed after you have some bread, some rice, or some pasta on those rare occasions. So, check out that video here and I'll see you