If you're over the age of 35, especially over the age of 40, there is an actual benefit to utilizing either branch chain amino acids, essential amino acids, or leucine. This gets frustrating because online it's really difficult to look at all the nuance, right? we see the big glaring articles or we see the big glaring headlines and possibly even the abbreviated or misinterpreted versions of studies, but there is still a lot of merit to lucine or essential amino acids, especially if you're trying to maintain muscle as you get older. So, there was a new study that came out in 2024, and I did another video talking about it more so from like the muscle building side, but I wanted to dive into some other details specifically for just maintaining muscle as we get older. might literally be one of the most important things that you could take and I think we're going to see more research coming out in it. So, we're going to talk about dosing. We're going to talk about how to take it, when to take it. We'll get into all of that. So, let's go ahead and dive in. Before we jump into it, I put a link down below for some other minerals that are important just for everyday life like sodium, potassium, and magnesium. And you can find those in Element. So, that is a link for a free sample variety pack of Element electrolytes with any purchase. So you can get their chocolate salt flavor, you can get their lemon lime, you can get their regular lemonade flavor. All this stuff is amazing and they have ready to drink sparkling cans as well. So this stuff is epic and it's getting you pretty much a zero calorie or 5 calorie way to get your minerals in, curb your appetite, and just have something that tastes good. So that link is down below. This stuff has been such a game changer for me for the years. like when it comes down to just being able to like go through the day without feeling like I need to munch on stuff all the time. Plus, my brain feels sharper because salt is so critical for that neurological function for these neuronal signaling. So, that link is down below. Okay, the first thing I want to talk about is a study that was published in Frontiers Nutrition. Now, this is a large study, 17 randomized control trials, and what they found in this study, they were looking at leucine supplementation. So leucine is the primary amino acid that would be in branch chain amino acids or in essential amino acids or just straight up lucine. So subjects consumed leucine and they were looking at were there increases in lean body mass? Did they put on muscle? Did they get stronger? yada yada. And what they found is that there were not increases in lean body mass. So most people say forget it. It's not going to work. Not going to put on muscle. Well look it not everyone is like eating enough or eating enough protein to like put on muscle. But we do need to look at some things. What they found is that there was a significant increase across 17 studies in grip strength and in gate speed in older people. What does this have to do with you? Like really like does it mean anything? It actually means a lot because grip strength and gate speed, those are two of the key things that we look at when we're assessing sarcopenia or muscle wasting. So when gate speed decreases in an older person, it is very indicative of them losing strength and losing muscle. And grip strength is also a huge one. Grip strength is actually a predictive marker of lifespan. So it's a good indicator for longevity. So we're not talking little minute increases. We're talking when lucine supplementations there, there's an increase in grip strength. What does this tell us? Because there's no increase in muscle mass. Well, it tells us that there's probably some unique avenues in which leucine alone could be helping preserve muscle. It may not help you build, but it might help you maintain, which becomes almost more important anyway. like building is great but we just want to maintain. Where things get sketchy is that a lot of the research that looks at leucine and throws branch chain amino acids under the bus or essential amino acids under the bus and I've done that myself. I've thrown BCAAs under the bus. I am in team either way. Point is is that they're looking at leucine and stuff in isolation. So let me talk about another paper that was really interesting that was published in clinical nutrition and it looked at leucine supplementation along with food. So in this study they gave people four grams of leucine along with their meals. So three meals per day, four grams of leucine with each meal. And these were older people. And what they found was that after 2 weeks when they would take leucine with the meal, it would increase the post-absorptive muscle protein synthesis of that meal. So because they were eating enough protein through their diet, the leucine made that protein more anabolic essentially. So there is clear evidence that leucine when taken in along with enough protein is anabolic but at the very least will help preserve muscle. But now I want to talk about something very interesting. There is an interplay with leptin. So we have seen in various bodies of research including this journal of strength and conditioning research study that was published in 2024 that leucine supplementation increases leptin. Okay. Where does leptin come into play? Leptin actually has an impact on our muscle size, muscle strength. And we've seen this in the rodent model research. There was a study in the journal physiology that took mice that were called fat-free mice. This means they had like 0% body fat. They found that these mice had a really hard time, could not build muscle, and did not have good strength. When they added fat to these mice, 10% fat, they suddenly were able to build power, strength, and muscle. Okay. Well, it looks like fat makes us stronger. Well, it might in some ways, but what they actually found is that they took these mice and then they blocked their leptin receptors. So, basically, leptin couldn't bind. They're like, "Well, let's see what happens if we add fat to the mice now that they can't absorb leptin." They made the mice fatter and they did not get stronger. Whereas the ones that could absorb leptin did get stronger. So, what we learned from this is that leucine impacts leptin and leptin impacts muscle preservation, muscle growth, and strength. And there's other studies that back this up, too. Like, it's not just in this little one rodent model study. We've seen in the Chinese medicine journal 2023, we've seen that essentially low leptin is a marker for atrophy. So as people atrophy, muscle wasting, leptin goes down and the muscles start to develop more leptin receptors to try to scrge as much leptin as possible. So we now know that leptin which is secreted by our atapost tissue. So it is fat does play a role, but leptin may help signal us to preserve and build muscle. So by taking in leucine, are we increasing leptin? Possibly or actually quite frankly yes. We do see that in a lot of literature. So, as we get older, taking in 3 to 5 g of leucine with meals could be huge, especially if you're meeting only minimum protein requirements. So, the one study that I mentioned, the clinical nutrition paper, they were just barely meeting the RDA. The RDA for protein is disgustingly low, but it's the bare minimum. Right now, what we see is the increase in muscle protein synthesis when leucine is taken along with that. What we do not know, cuz we haven't seen literature on it, is will leucine help if you're eating 300 g of protein? Maybe not, because you're already getting enough protein. But for older individuals that maybe have a hard time eating, you're not getting enough food in, you're concerned you're not able to get enough protein in, having 3 to 5 g of leucine or 3 to 5 g of branch chain amino acids or a scoop of EAS with your meal might be the difference between you getting muscle protein synthesis that's adequate to maintain out of your diet or not. So, it's an easy, inexpensive thing. And as you get older, it's probably going to become more important and possibly even more effective. So don't throw the baby out with the bath water. Just because the meattheads don't want to use, and I'm a meatthead, so I can say that just cuz the meattheads don't want to say BCAAs are good, doesn't mean that lucine, BCAAs, or EAAs don't have a place when it comes down to longevity. I'll see you tomorrow.