1 ounce of this stuff is all it takes and you only need to eat it like once or twice a week. What if this one food was arguably the most nutrient-dense food on the planet? The feelings that you're feeling are legit. That lack of drive in the morning, the loss of willpower as you get older, these are all really real things. And it's like even just that feeling of just missing some nutrients, like feeling like you're undernourished. We've got decades of cruddy food that's been coming into our system causing inflammatory responses that make us feel weak. They make us feel bloated. They make us feel mentally drained. All these are valid. But what if a little bit of liver, like literally an ounce of liver, or even a liver supplement for crying out loud if you don't want to eat liver was just the kickstart that we needed? I'm going to cover the five most recent studies that are surrounding the benefits of liver. But here's the tricky thing. Hardly any studies directly test real liver intake itself. Why? Well, probably because no one's funding research that could make half the supplement industry obsolete, right? Because liver actually works. But what scientists have studied are the nutrients that make liver so powerful. The B vitamins, the choline, the iron, and even the vitamin A. So today we're going to look at five new studies that show how these key nutrients that are all concentrated in liver can radically influence your metabolism, your brain, and even how your body handles fat and ultimately even carbs. So here's what we'll cover. First, we'll talk about how the B vitamins in liver lower the risk of metabolic syndrome and actually improve insulin function. Second, we'll talk about how liver's iron content actually links to preventing insulin resistance. Third, we'll talk about how choline affects inflammation and cardiovascular health. And this is something you can get from eggs, too. And then fourth, we'll talk about how that same choline protects your brain and may even slow Alzheimer's progression. And then finally, vitamin A in the exact form found in liver and help helps prevent fatty liver disease itself. We're talking like serious well-roundedness here. So, let's start with the first one. This is how liver can help with metabolic syndrome. So, we look at a relatively new study in 2023. It was published in JAMAMA and it followed over 1,400 people for 30 years starting in their mid20s. So they measured their folate, they measured their vitamins B6, they measured their B12 and they did this multiple times. And what they found was that those with the highest B vitamin intake had a 61% lower risk of developing metabolic syndrome. 61% lower. That's lower obesity risk, lower blood pressure, lower triglycerides, basically reducing all the major predictors for diabetes and heart disease. Now, mechanistically, this comes down to something called the one carbon cycle. It's basically the body's internal repair shop for your cells. So, folate donates a methyl group, while vitamin B6 and B12 act as what are called co-actors. So essentially what they're doing is they're helping your body regulate genes that are related to metabolic health, to insulin sensitivity, to blood pressure, to fat metabolism. So in simple terms, these vitamins make sure that your metabolism's code stays clean. So it's like the whole genetic code, right? So when you're deficient in these things, that code gets kind of bugged out, like when an app on your phone doesn't work, right? So you start seeing insulin resistance and fat accumulate because the code, the entire genetic process is out of whack. But there's also the homocyine story. Homoyine is this amino acid that builds up when you're low in B vitamins. People don't realize that because B vitamins help with methylation. So homocyine is an amino. It builds up when you don't get enough B vitamins and your nutrients are low. So when this is high, it ultimately damages arteries and it's hugely linked with heart disease and Alzheimer's risk. I mean a ton. We know homoyine is not good. So when you look at liver, which has nearly 30 times your daily B12 needs in like a 100 grams. So you don't even need that much, right? It keeps that system running smoothly. And people don't get adequate B vitamins. They'll get synthetic like synthesized B vitamins from processed garbage where they fortify it. So think of it this way. The B vitamins that you're getting in the liver are not just about energy. They are like a cellular quality control system that is constantly patching metabolic errors before they turn into disease. This is what can help you feel better. Plain and simple. So, now that we've covered B vitamins and metabolism, let's move to that second piece I mentioned, which is iron and insulin resistance risk. So, we look at a 2024 study published in the nutrition journal that analyzed over 61,000 people from the UK bio bank, which is just a huge data set of biological and just health data. So, none of these people in this study had diabetes or insulin resistance at the start. Over the course of five years, those consuming moderate to high levels of dietary iron had a 38% lower risk of developing insulin resistance or type two diabetes compared to those with low intake. Interesting. And we're talking about good quality hem iron here, like from good quality red meat. That's interesting because iron gets a bad rap. And a lot of it has to do with taking it in a supplement form, which is not good. That's not in its necessary like food matrix form. Okay? So if you get too little iron, you're definitely fatigued. You will feel that too much and you have to start worrying about oxidative stress, right? What happens if you leave iron out in the elements? It starts to rust. It becomes oxidized. But this particular study showed that within a healthy range from good quality food, iron supports proper glucose control, which is interesting. How does this have anything to do with this? So iron forms the core of enzymes in your mitochondria where your cells actually burn the glucose for energy. So without iron, you don't use glucose, right? And then it also helps your pancreatic beta cells release insulin in the first place. There was a study that was published in Acttobiometica that went as far as saying that iron deficiency impairs glucose homeostasis and increases diabetes complications. So in other words, the iron that's in the liver, which is hem iron in a bioavailable food matrix highly absorbable form, is not just restoring red blood cells, it's helping your metabolism run on all cylinders. So when you hear iron and you think of oxygen and blood, start thinking iron and energy regulation. And again, I want to reiterate, do not just start pounding iron supplements. That is different. That is unopposed iron. You have iron that is in a feric state and a ferris state. Too much iron from a supplement that is not in a food matrix form is problematic. I might get in trouble for saying this, but eat some good quality beef and maybe once or twice a week eat some good quality liver. or there's that force of nature company, no affiliation, that blends like beef and heart and stuff into the ground beef. Makes it really easy. Now, for that third piece I want to talk about, which is the link between choline and cardiovascular health. Choline is like often forgotten when we're talking about liver. Okay? Because it used to be called vitamin B4 for a reason because it was like it really played this role here. So there if you take a 100 gram serving of beef liver, you're going to get 77% of your daily choline needs. Now, if you have a couple of eggs, you're going to top that right off. Eggs are super rich in choline, too. There was a 2023 study. They found that people that consumed the most choline had a 31% lower risk of cardiovascular disease than those consuming the least. And here we are bashing eggs and beef and liver. When in reality, the nutrient density of these foods could actually be hugely protective. What's cool is that this benefit wasn't just about cholesterol. It was more about inflammation, which in my opinion is even more important. In this study, those that had higher choline intake, they had lower white blood cell counts suggesting a significantly lower systemic like inflammation, so a stronger anti-inflammatory effect. But then there was another paper that was published in the American Journal of Clinical Nutrition that backed this up, showed that people who consumed over 310 milligrams of choline daily had 22% lower C-reactive protein. So, if you're feeling inflamed, if you're feeling achy, if you're feeling brain foggy, if you feel like your metabolism just isn't kicking into gear, this isn't just in your head. When inflammation is high, that's what it feels like, okay? And we're told to just not eat eggs or reduce our meat consumption. When in reality, if you're active and you're moving, you need these things. 26% lower interlucan 6 and 6% lower tumor necrosis factor alpha. you know, all key inflammatory markers that are tied to heart conditions. So, in simple terms, choline helps the liver and the immune system communicate more effectively. So, then it can help you clear out excess fat from the liver. It keeps your blood vessels calm and it prevents that chronic sort of lowgrade inflammation that drives metabolic aging and makes us feel the way that I mentioned at the beginning of this video, like run down and like no willpower and super fatigued. But there's more with choline, right? We've talked about the heart. Let's go upstairs a little bit and talk about the brain. Choline might literally be one of the most promising nutrients for not just brain power, but protecting the brain. There was a 2024 study in POS1. It was a rodent model study, but it was looking at mice that were bred to develop Alzheimer's disease. Can't do that in humans, right? Researchers gave pregnant and nursing mice a super high choline diet, so five times the normal amount, and they tracked the cognitive health of the offspring. What was happening was super interesting. The mice that were born from the colon supplemented moms completely avoided the learning and memory deficits that normally appeared in this Alzheimer's model of mice at least early in life. So what's even more impressive is as this went on they looked at brain scans and they showed far fewer amaloid plaques which are the sticky proteins that damage neurons or are supposed to be the problem with Alzheimer's. We're starting to uncover more there. But I mean obviously this was a mouse study but mechanistically it does track with what we know about choline in the brain because choline helps your body make acetylcholine which is the primary neurotransmitter for focus for memory for mood. When you're using your brain you're using acetylcholine and it supports the structure of every cell membrane in your brain. So if you think about it the one nutrient that helps both your hardware and your software is choline. It keeps your neurons physically strong and it keeps your neurotransmission signals super crisp. And I know it's a tough pill to swallow to think about eating liver, but I mentioned earlier in this video like you can take liver supplements, too. That's gets you that the well-roundedness. I put a link down below for Thrive Market. That's not a liver supplement company, but Thrive Market's an online grocery store and that's a 30% off discount link and they have a supplement section and they have a variety of different liver supplements. I have no vested interest in any liver supplement companies that I'm talking about today at all. I just want to mention that if that's something you need to go for because if it's not realistic for you to eat an ounce of liver a couple times per week, a liver supplement is pretty darn good. You're not getting the full food matrix, but you're getting at least the things I'm talking about, the choline, the vitamin D, you're getting the stuff that's important here and the vitamin A, which we're going to talk about in a second, which has some really interesting stuff. So, that link down below is a 30% off discount link. gets you 30% off your entire first grocery order through Thrive Market. I definitely recommend you check it out. Even if it's just to save some money on good quality groceries, quite frankly, that get delivered to your doorstep. So, that link is down below. Check it out. Top line of this description. So, the fifth and final piece about liver is actually how the vitamin A in liver helps combat fatty liver disease. Beef liver is loaded with vitamin A. Okay, nearly 100% of your daily requirement in like the smallest serving you can imagine. All right. Now, most people just think of vitamin A and they associate it with eye health. And that's cool. It works for that. But there was a 2024 study in scientific reports that looked at its role in non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. So, they looked at data from over 6,000 humans. Okay? They found that those with the highest intake of total vitamin A had a 14% lower risk of fatty liver. But when they look specifically at like provitamin A caratenoids, which is a form that your body converts, that number jumped up even more to a 22% lower risk. And this ties perfectly into liver's unique nutrient matrix. Liver doesn't just provide like a pre-formed vitamin A, which is called retinol. It also stores caratenoids like betaarotene. Okay, so these compounds lower inflammation and oxidative stress specifically in the liver cells, which is what's helping to reverse the early stages of fat accumulation in the liver. The same study even showed that there was a linear dose response, which means the more vitamin A that people consumed, the lower their risk of fatty liver. But don't just go taking a bunch of vitamin A supplements, you can get vitamin A toxicity. This is where a get good quality liver, get it into food matrix form. Because in plain English, vitamin A is like an antioxidant security system for your liver. It protects it from the same metabolic stress that drives insulin resistance that drives the inflammation in the liver and ultimately drives the fat storage in your liver, in your visceral fat, and the rest of your body. So now, when you put all five of these findings together in the newer research, it paints a much bigger and clearer picture of why liver has been considered a superfood for decades, even though people still try to shoot it down. So even before the whole word like superfood even existed. All right. So we've covered how the B vitamins improve metabolic health and lower insulin resistance. We talked about how iron coming in a heem form, not a supplement form, can regulate blood sugar and help with insulin resistance. We talked about how choline has a huge impact on modulating inflammation and protecting your heart. Basically modulating inflammation in the circulatory system and the cardiovascular system. and how that same choline supports your brain's learning and memory. And finally, we talked about how vitamin A can literally help prevent fatty liver and visceral fat. So, I'm not trying to say that liver is some kind of magic pill, but I would argue that it's probably nature's version of a multivitamin. And I've gone on record probably saying that a couple dozen times over the last 10 years of running this channel. Like, liver is biologically active. It's highly absorbable. It's balanced in a way that synthetic supplements simply can't replicate. And if you're someone that's struggling with energy crashes, if your brain isn't functioning well, you have a hard time dropping fat, then these studies suggest that even a small amount of a nutrient-dense food like liver can completely rebalance the systems driving those issues. The more that I learn, the more that I realize that calories matter, but it's about nutrient quality. It's about giving your body the tools that it needs to assemble things and to course correct when things are a rough. I did a video that explains mitochondrial function and fat loss at a new level. Like stuff that's even like being talked about in the quantum physics world that really teaches us more about fat loss and even how to use particular kinds of fasting for better fat loss and metabolic health. So that video is right here. It's a good video to watch if you're trying to improve sort of just your daily eating habits anyway. It might shed some light on a new way of eating. So check that video out here. And as always, I'll see you tomorrow.