There's a root vegetable that can stop metabolic dysfunction, fatty liver, and insulin resistance in its tracks. We've been told we need to eat a bunch of veggies to improve our metabolic health, but it's not about quantity. It truly is about specific, powerful types in relatively small quantities. Beets leverage nitric oxide, and it's not just about the increase in blood flow that we thought the nitric oxide science was about. We're talking about something that completely changes how your mitochondria uses fuel. As a matter of fact, the blood flow is barely any of the benefit when you look at the newer science. What would your life feel like if your mitochondria ran on eight cylinders instead of four? Today's video, we're going to talk about the nitric oxide pathway science and how this can actually improve your exercise and get you more fat loss from your workouts. Then we're going to talk about the interesting liver effect, probably the most powerful effect that we could get from just a little bit of beets. Then we'll go into the mitochondrial biogenesis, how beets can help you get more mitochondria to actually have more fat loss substations throughout the body. And then we're going to talk about a wild gut effect. And we'll put it all together and how to eat it at specific times to get different benefits. Before we get into the details of how the beets can actually help you burn more fat from your workouts, I put a link down below for another superfood, a food that has a really interesting property in just a small amount. I'm talking about manuka honey. So, that link down below is for 31% off Madukora honey. So, that link gets you an $850 MGO content tub of honey, plus a $25 value in terms of a starter kit. So, you're also getting these stick packs that you can travel with. You're getting a wooden spoon and a guide on how to use it. The MGO content of Manuka honey is really important. This antibacterial content comes specifically from the nectar of a tea tree. You have to get specific honey that is harvested from a specific place. And Manukora harvests all their honey deep in the forest of New Zealand. Every single batch, every single bottle has a QR code on it that you can scan and you can trace when it was harvested, where it was harvested from. This is the best tasting, smoothest, creamiest honey that you will ever have, and it packs a serious third-p partyy tested punch. So, we're talking high antibacterial content and just overall high polyphenol antioxidant content. So, check them out down below. You literally only need a teaspoon or two of this stuff. So, that link gets you 31% off and $25 worth of free gifts. Check them out after this video. When we consume beets or beet juice, we don't need much of it. There are in beets what are called organic nitrates. And when we consume them, our oral biome actually breaks them down into nitrites. And then what happens is the nitrites are converted into nitric oxide. And thus begins the positive effects in the body. This nitric oxide pathway is what takes the load when we are under stress or under high inflammation. So if we were really stressed or dealing with a lot of inflammation, this whole nitric oxide pathway actually carries some of the weight. And there's always periods when we're stressed out. Think about when you're extra inflamed. You just got sick or maybe you're overtrained or maybe you're getting in lots of arguments. I mean, who knows? All kinds of things that increase your stress. Well, this NO2 pathway actually helps you support you through this. So, it's really important that we give ourselves the tools to have nitric oxide support when we need it. But how does this affect you? And how does it help you in your metabolism and burning fat? Well, we turned to a study published in Cell Metabolism. This found that having a nitric oxide boost from beets decreased the oxygen needed to produce energy for exercise. So it flat out made things more efficient. And you know how it does this? By making the mitochondria run more efficiently and smoother on fats. Basically the mitochondria produced more ATP or energy. That's the energy currency with less oxygen. Imagine being able to walk up the stairs, feel energized walking up the stairs, and not huff and puff as much. And if you are an athlete, imagine being able to run further and faster without going into oxygen debt. You're literally improving efficiency. This is the core of having more energy throughout the day and not feeling fatigued at 2 p.m. Essentially, it's more like a software upgrade. You got the same hardware, but you're upgrading the actual software inside. If you want to double stack this and get a double nitric oxide benefit, arugula is a great choice, too. So, you could do a beet and arugula mix, maybe you want to do it before a workout, maybe you just want to do it before you're going to use your brain because it can actually increase blood flow to the brain and help you there, too. If you don't want all the carbs, you could use straight up beet powder. That's going to concentrate the antioxidants, the benefits for the beets without actually having the sugar. But what if you're not an athlete? What if you're just trying to get rolling? What if you have a fatty liver? And what if you're just trying to deal with just fixing your poor metabolic health? Well, this is where it gets extra fascinating and the science is super strong and it's because of a compound that is in beets known as trimethlycine or betane and it is what is called a methyl donor and it's a powerful one. What does that mean? It means that it donates a methyl group for the process of what's called methylation in the body. When we are breaking down certain compounds, we attach what's called a methyl group to allow the further breakdown. Without getting too far into the weeds, what betane or TMG from beets can do for your liver is it helps break down homocyine into something called methionine. This fuels an entire process called the SAM E pathway. I'm not going to go into detail on what that means, but essentially when we have a robust SAM E pathway and it's activated, we are able to provide methyl groups to all kinds of tissues and cells within the body. What this means is it takes the load off the liver. What does that mean for you and what does that feel like? It means your liver can now metabolize food the way that it needs to and it can metabolize fuel without being backed up and without potentially storing as fat. Because betane also is required for the creation of something called carnitine. Now when you are working out or when you're walking and you're burning fat through the mitochondria, it requires carnitine. Carnitine is like the little shuttle that brings fat inside the mitochondria to finally get burned. So, you've been struggling with trying to lose weight or you feel like when you're walking, you just can't get the energy moving. Like it's just you feel just winded, but you're not actually getting the locomotion out of it. That's because the fuel is having a hard time getting into the mitochondria. Betane is like a mitochondrial transport vehicle that allows fat to get in better. But one of the most important things that people deal with that's very, very, very important we get rid of is a fatty liver. And there's a study published in Frontiers and Immunology that looked at betane TMG. It found that it decreased what's called SR EB1 in the liver. This is a fatty acid synthes. This is what helps fat store. So it builds new fat. The last place we want it is in the liver. We do not want to build fat around the liver. So in this case, it's actually turning that process down and increasing PGC1A and increasing PAR, which actually are things that allow us to burn fat and develop more mitochondria. Bottom line, if you're dealing with insulin resistance, visceral fat, and just overall metabolic dysfunction and fatty liver, this is a very lowhanging fruit. This is all fine and dandy, but what about belly fat and beyond? Just like losing fat on our body, I promised you that we'd talk about fat loss specifically. What if there was a pigment like literally what made beets red that changed everything about how your mitochondria functioned? Insert betalanes. And these are an actual metabolic signal, not just a pigment. They are what give beats their red color. But man, when you start learning about just the power of food, it's pretty dang awesome. There was a study published in pharmaceuticals that found that betylanes, a particular kind of betylane, actually increased PGC1A and increased overall mitochondrial biogenesis. So it actually created more mitochondria and then it increase what's called uncoupling protein 1. So have you ever heard of brown fat before? I want you to think of your body for a second as having a bunch of those radiator heaters, okay? You know those old school ones that when you plug them in, they just dissipate energy as heat. Well, your mitochondria and certain fat have the power to do that. Wouldn't it be cool if you could just stand there, flip a switch, and actually just burn calories as heat? Well, good functioning mitochondria can actually allow that to happen. It's a system that's put in place to actually keep our metabolism and our evolution in check. Now, what's cool about betalins from beets, the red pigment, is they can induce this, but it can do this specifically in fat cells. So, the fat cells will just dissipate energy as heat. This is really powerful stuff. It's incentivizing the browning of white fat. Now, the cool thing is is red Swiss chard also has this pigment. Curcumin has this pigment. And believe it or not, kakans in green tea have this pigment. So, you don't just have to get it from beets if you wanted a lower carbohydrate source of it. This is really profound stuff. Here's how you'd want to use it to get the maximum benefit. 2 to three hours before a hormetic stressor, maybe like high intensity interval training or cold exposure or even sauna, okay? When you're going to be stressing your body, that's when you'd want to increase the amount of maybe some curcumin or maybe the red Swiss chard or the green tea. Or if you want to do beetroot powder or beet juice, that's cool, too. A lot of people just don't want to have the carbs before they work out because it definitely allows you to tap into more fat stores. So something like curcumin to get the bolins could actually be really cool here and allows you to get more of the actual mitochondrial effect that you're trying to get from that stressor. It triggers the adaptation more. But everything from an inflammatory standpoint starts in the gut. So how can we use this cool stuff that we're learning about beets and put it into the effect with our gut? There was a study published in food chemistry that found that 14 days of just a little bit of beetroot juice or even beet powder supplementation led to a massive transformation of the gut bio leading to significantly more what is called acrimancia municiphilia. This is the key bacteria responsible for protecting our gut mucosal layer. Okay? If we have a good healthy gut mucosal layer, we have a good line of defense between so many of the nasty things that are in our food these days and our body. If that gut layer is disrupted, things pass through and thus the immune system has to attack and thus begins joint pain, brain fog, fatigue, weight gain, insulin resistance. All these things happen from an inflammatory cascade and it starts in our gut. So, if we can increase this kind of bacteria by remodeling our gut biome, that does the work for us. That seals the gut. So, that's where beets have a powerful powerful effect. Now, if you wanted to take the power of beets, you could combine a little bit of beet juice with like a little bit of kimchi. That always tastes good. You could take a little beet juice, combine it with some sauerkraut. Also, pectin from like apples and pears can have a really powerful effect on acromancia as well. So, if we leverage the power that we get from beets and these other things, we can make like an acromancia municipalia superfood, right? just by combining all this stuff. Not to mention just making a good salad. Take arugula, the nitric oxide effect. Beets, the nitric oxide, the betane, the betalin effect. Apple cider vinegar, which has all kinds of effect at a cellular mitochondrial level. And then add some chia or flax seeds, so you get the soluble fiber that's going to help with the gut, too. That's a pretty cool mix. So, what's the playbook? How do we combine all of this that we've just learned about beets into a practical method that'll work and help us with what we're dealing with? For peak performance, take a beetroot powder. Okay? That way you don't have the carbs and you could as like a use it as a pre-workout and get the extra fat loss and get the benefit there from extra peak performance. For fat oxidation, break your fast or when you're in a caloric deficit, you can sort of have a methylation stack. Okay, so you use the beets that we talked about. You can also use wheat germ, which is high in betane and also high in some other things that are really good for fat loss. Shrimp is a surprising source of betane, believe it or not. So that's a great protein to use. If you're trying to get a little bit more of the fat loss long-term effect, then you want to have your betane, you want to have your betalins, you want to have that two to three hours before cold exposure or sauna or highintensity interval training. Lastly, with gut health, you can make that arugula beet salad with apple cider vinegar and some chia and some flax. You can also just flat out take care of your gut. I also did a video right here that breaks down the benefits of a 36-hour fast. This could help you significantly when you're trying to figure out like what you should be expecting, what you can do throughout different stages because it's a great addition to add to what I taught you today. So, check that video out and as always, keep it locked in here. I'll see you tomorrow.