When someone tells you that you have high blood sugar or you have insulin resistance, the advice almost always sounds the same. Tell you to cut your calories, they tell you to reduce your fat, they tell you to reduce your carbs, they tell you to eat lighter, to move more, and those things, sure, they might work, but naturally a lot of people assume that if blood sugar is high that high carbs or highsaturated fat could be the problem. And to be fair, some sources of fat don't help insulin resistance. highly processed oils. These things can be uh extremely inflammatory, right? And inflammatory trans fats, all these can worsen insulin resistance. But here's the part that rarely gets explained. Okay, not all fats act the same in the body. And fats can influence insulin resistance much more in a positive way than people think. And one fat in particular, olive oil, consistently shows up in research doing the exact opposite of what anyone would expect by just adding more calories. Okay, instead of worsening blood sugar or instead of adding more fat on the body, it actually improves how the body handles glucose and insulin at a deeply cellular level. So, here's what I'm going to do in this video. We're going to break this into three different parts. Okay? First, I'm going to show you what happens when olive oil is introduced into a higher fat diet and why insulin resistance actually improves instead of getting worse when you add these calories in. Then we're going to zoom out to the long-term human data and look at what happens to diabetes risk when olive oil becomes a consistent part of the diet, even if carbs are still in the equation, right? And finally, I'm going to walk you through how to actually use this in the real world without just adding more calories on top of everything else. After this video, I put a link down below for element electrolytes as well, cuz one of the things that does matter is having periods of time that you don't eat food, right? You want to have these peaks and these valleys. And during those valleys, you can sip on something like element electrolytes that actually kind of curb your appetite, but give you the electrolytes that you need. This can end up helping with insulin dynamics and help with all kinds of things that we're talking about because you're taking a break from food, but you're sipping on something that's still satiating. So, that link down below gets you a free sample variety pack with any purchase from Element. So, go to drinklnt.com/toomas. I want to start everything off at a cellular level because that's where this whole like olive oil story kind of flips. There was a study that was published in molecular nutrition and food research and this took four groups and they fed them very different diets. Okay? They gave them a standard diet. They gave them a highfat diet. They gave them a high-fat diet where the fat came primarily from olive oil. And then they gave them a third highfat diet with olive oil that did not have the polyphenols in it. They removed the polyphenols. And this may come as a surprise, but the highfat diet alone, not the olive oil one, actually increased insulin resistance and elevated blood sugar. There's interesting pathways in which that happens. Okay, so it's not that all fats are going to cause insulin resistance, but a specific high-fat diet in combination with carbohydrates certainly contributes to insulin resistance and high blood sugar. Okay, their glucose control broke down in this group. But when olive oil was introduced, even within a highfat context that was normally causing insulin resistance, blood glucose improved and insulin resistance improved. But the biggest improvements came from the polyphenol rich olive oil. So here's the mechanism because this is the part that actually matters. Okay, clearly the type of fat matters, right? We were seeing this very clear as day, but scientifically olive oil activates. This is a cellular energy sensor that tells your cells to use fuel more efficiently. And at the same time, olive oil increased expression of glute 2. This is a transporter that moves sugar out of the bloodstream and into cells where it can actually be used. So in simple terms, olive oil made cells more receptive to glucose, not more resistant to it. And this matters because insulin resistance is not always about eating too much sugar. A lot of the time it's about a cell refusing to respond to insulin in the first place. So if we zoom out for just a second because this isn't just short-term animal data here, we can actually look at the long-term human data and it tells a super similar story. A huge landmark study that was published in diabetes care looked at 400 non-diabetic adults for over 4 years. They were randomly assigned to one of three different diets. They gave them a low-fat control diet. They give him a Mediterranean diet that was supplemented with extravirgin olive oil or they gave him a Mediterranean diet supplemented with nuts. After four years, the group consuming olive oil had nearly half the incidence of type 2 diabetes. And this was compared to the lower fat group. Okay, I want you to let that sink in for a second. This isn't small data. This isn't animal data. This is humans. And this wasn't caloric restriction. This wasn't even extreme carb cutting or even it's this was purely based on fat quality which is just blows my mind. Okay, we're influencing metabolic outcomes with the fat quality, not even quantity. So when you connect the dots, the story becomes pretty darn clear. Olive oil reduces inflammation which removes one of the biggest roadblocks to insulin sensitivity. It activates AMPK which basically tells your body you're in a deficit even if you're not in that much of a deficit. Okay. So, you're improving your cellular energy handling like at the very core level and it's increasing glucose transport which is lowering the circulating blood sugar, lowering advanced glycation in products because you're having less glycation from sugar floating around. So, instead of pushing insulin higher, olive oil is making insulin work better. We don't want to bash insulin. insulin resistance is not about bashing insulin. It's about making insulin do its job properly. And that's the difference between forcing blood sugar down and actually restoring metabolic flexibility where you have natural homeostasis. So if you're thinking about actually applying this, here's how to do it simply. Okay, first you do focus on the extravirgin olive oil. Okay, that's where the polyphenols live. That's where most of the insulin sensitizing effects come from. You can even take olive oil extract if you really wanted to. You can even take olive leaf. Some of these things have the polyphenols if you don't want to just straight up have the olive oil. But secondly, use the olive oil with meals. Okay. Now, if you're going to have it with meals that contain carbs, you probably want to still keep the carbs a little lower. The Randall cycle is a real thing. When you have high fat and high carbs, that's kind of metabolic gridlock waiting to happen where you have so much fuel coming in at one point. However, you are going to improve glucose uptake of those carbs with the olive oil. So, if you're going to have some fat with some carbs, it might as well be olive oil because it's the one fat that I can say for certain is going to positively influence how your body uses those carbs, unlike palmetic acid or some of these other fats, right? I wouldn't recommend consuming highsaturated fat with high carbohydrate or sugar content. Thirdly, think replacement, not addition. Okay? We're not trying to add a bunch of extra calories. At the end of the day, calories are still calories. Some respond differently. Some do different things. But if we're replacing, not adding, you're going to be in a better spot. Olive oil works best when it replaces the more inflammatory fats. It's not just about calories again, okay? It's about replacing not so good foods. So, when it's just piled on top of everything else, then calories are still going to add up. You're still going to have the inflammatory stuff. But finally, I want you to think long term on this, too. Okay? Because blood sugar improvements don't just show up overnight. Takes weeks. It takes months. But olive oil consistently shifts that trajectory in the right direction. So if olive oil can improve blood sugar and insulin sensitivity over time, you might be wondering if there's anything that can help more quickly. And I actually broke that down in a separate video where I show about how 20 gram of apple cider vinegar can improve insulin resistance almost immediately. And there's some newer, smarter ways to use it around meals because this is still good stuff. Olive oil, apple cider vinegar, all these things can work together. You just have to know how to use them properly. So that video is right here for you to check out. I recommend you give that one a watch. And as always, I'll see you