First, they said to just eat less and move more just to count calories. But that didn't really pan out very well. Then they said, "Hey, eat six meals per day. Okay, that'll keep your metabolism hot." That just seemed to compound insulin resistance and metabolic dysfunction. Then they said, "Okay, you can intermittent fast, but maybe just skip breakfast and do it that way." But they left out one of the most important kinds of fast that can have a huge impact on metabolic health. You've been struggling with insulin resistance. You've been struggling with fatty liver, with visceral fat, with general mitochondrial dysfunction, which is making you feel brain foggy and tired and not able to wake up in the morning. But the worst thing, your results have plateaued. Fasting was working for you, but now there's that general daily fasting is not. Insert the 48hour fast. Science is pointing to a 48 hour fast as a better way to rewire hormones, to reboot the gut, and ultimately repair mitochondria. In this video, you're about to discover a unique feeling that happens around 36 hours. That is the clear definitive sign that you have tapped into a much more regenerative stage of fasting. It's a very unique feeling and it's how you know I am getting up to five times more cellular repair and metabolic benefit. So, in this video, I'm going to break the 48 hour fast down into four chunks. We're going to talk about one, the dramatic hormonal cascade that happens. Then we're going to talk about a unique thing where the gut actually resets and the whole science behind that. Then we're going to talk about that exact crossover feeling that I mentioned, what you can expect to feel and what's happening when you get that interesting feeling. Then the fourth thing will give you a step-by-step protocol that you can actually follow. Now, a quick way that you can jump start autophagy before we get into everything here is a really good quality organic coffee. Now, I am a big stickler for coffee, okay? green tea and coffee. I hold quality to a very high standard. The link down below is for a free bag of coffee from four sigmatic. A free bag of their mushroom coffee. All you do is pay shipping and handling. And if you do want to get anything else, if you spend $59 or more, you could also still get a free bag of coffee and get free shipping. But if you want to just try their mushroom coffee, which is the real deal, it's not a fly by night knockoff like a lot of these other brands are. This is like legit multi-generational mushroom farmers that have built for sigmatic. I've been a fan of this stuff for a very long time because the mushroom coffee particularly like lion's mane, you get a nice mental boost out of it. And there's even evidence to suggest that it can improve what's called brain derived neutropic factor. So it can actually help your brain feel sharper. This is real and it's sciencebacked. So that link down below gets you my favorite mushroom coffee from For Sigmatic. Again, these guys have been number one in like the natural category for a very long time. They have so many fivestar reviews. They're epic. And right now, you can get a free bag of their coffee. Just pay shipping and handling. So, that link is in the top line of the description underneath this video. And a huge thank you to Forsigmatic for being cool to my audience and those that watch my videos enough to offer this up. So, let's talk about this hormonal shock wave first. When you're doing a 48 hour fast, it is a massive hormetic stressor. When we do regular 168 intermittent fasting, it's a little bit of a stress. But when you do these longer 36 48 hour fasts, you're putting such a stress on your body that it's programming your brain and programming your body to become more resilient to stress because you're putting it through stress. It's like a workout for your metabolism. But the hormonal shock wave that happens is two hormones that start with a G. Grein and growth hormone. And when they're combined, it's powerful. But we've been told that ghrein's bad. Grein is our hunger hormone and it makes us hungry. But when you have an increase in ghrelin during a fast, it commands your body to release significant amounts of growth hormone. Growth hormone is lipolytic, which means it is our friend. It liberates fat to be used as fuel in an effort to spare muscle. So when we're fasting, the body says increase growth hormone, release fat so that we preserve muscle. Exactly what we want. During a two-day fast, a 48 hour fast, there is a 5x increase in growth hormone. That is one of the largest natural increases in growth hormone we've seen with any dietary intervention. So that means up to that 48 hour point, you're preserving muscle and really hormonally skewed towards burning more fat. And it kickstarts a lot more after 30 hours. Have you ever experienced, especially with fasting, where you're dropping weight, but you're not dropping fat? It's like if your growth hormone levels aren't where we need them, then that could happen. If growth hormone didn't elevate during a fast, what would happen? You'd start breaking down muscles. You'd drop weight for sure, but you'd be like, I still feel soft and spongy. What the heck? Well, that's why 48 hour fasts are so unique. But there's another thing that makes them a little more unique from just a traditional fast, and that is how autophagy and stem cells are a bit different when we get up to these uh more prolonged upper numbers. There was a study that found that autophagy really does ramp up in these later stages. Now, this is autophagy independent. Autophagy is happening. I've done lots of videos about autophagy. I'll link out to some of them in the description and maybe one or two here. But let's talk about what's happening in the gut. One of the biggest things that happens is a major change to the composition of the gut. Okay, you have an increase dramatically of a bacteria called acromancia munisophilia. This is a bacteria that affects the gut mucosal layer. This is single-handedly probably the most important gut bacteria in my opinion because the gut barrier is everything. If the gut barrier is damaged, we have inflammation point blank. So when we have an increase in this bacteria, it changes how our gut actually repairs. It doesn't just repair by making it better at digestion. It's literally repairing the composition of the lining. The first line of defense between potentially gnarly food that we're consuming and our body. Now, the first 24 hours fasting, especially if you're not used to it, can be a little bit of a battle. But there's something that happens at 30 to 36 hours. It's very pronounced. It's very real. And it's backed by boatloads of science. It's the metabolic crossover. And this is the third part of this video. You can feel it. It's like a wave of calm clarity, a wave of focus. It's like your shoulders just go from being tightened up here to just like something happens. And it's an anti-inflammatory effect that you've felt before, but it's significantly more pronounced. And I'll explain why. There's no surprise that it's ketones. Ketones are a pretty amazing thing that happen during a longer term fast. But there's two specific things that are happening with this longer fast. Remember how I mentioned that growth hormone is elevated 5x? Well, 5x increasing growth hormone means up to 5x more lipolysis fats being liberated. If we have five times the amount of fats being liberated, that means up to five times more ketones being produced because our liver takes these fats and turns them into ketones. So growth hormone equals more lipolysis. More lipolysis equals more fats in the bloodstream. More fats in the bloodstream equals more ketones. Ketones go into the brain. They have anti-inflammatory effects. But one of the most important things I want to double down on today is something that is impacting you and makes you feel youthful again. It's histone deactoise inhibition, HDAC. These ketones, to make it very simply, allow you to tap into epigenetic potential that you maybe didn't tap into before. What this means is that feeling that you had when you were an athlete, when you were in your teens, and you felt like you were on top of the world because you were tapping into epigenetic potential, somewhere along the line, that epigenetic code got filed away. There's complicated things called histones and deacilase inhibition, all this stuff that basically keeps it locked up and prevents you from hitting it again unless you were to start training like you were in high school. But what ketones can do is they actually have a skeleton key. And this key can go in and can open that lock and actually reactivate this epigenetic code, making you feel healthy again, making you have these genetic potentials again. This is not hogwash. This is real stuff. And yeah, you're not going to become the all-star quarterback again. You know, you might still have that visceral fat to lose. You might still be struggling with consuming carbs and feeling sluggish, but you're going to be unlocking that code that's going to put you in a better metabolic state. And that is a piece that simple calories in calories out can't touch. This is real genetic diet and genetic influence and epigenetic influence which is fascinating stuff. So this whole thing that's feeling means that it's happening and you're well on your way. But it can get derailed very easily. And when you get to these longer fasts, although it seems very simple, just don't eat, it actually gets a little bit more nuanced. And this is where I come in with part four to explain how to do this 48 hour fast real quick. Step one, the day before you go into a longer fast, it makes a lot of sense to go highfat, low carb, high protein, high fat, and low carb. It gets your insulin levels low so that when you go into this fast, you have less work to do to get to the promised land. You have less work, less insulin to get through. You're already halfway there. Not to mention, it curbs your hunger a little bit and gets you that much closer to that histone dicilise ketone production that you would normally get later in the fast. Step two, I need you to drink two to three liters of water per day, preferably with electrolytes, maybe some salt, just good quality electrolyte. Step three, coffee is okay. Green tea is good. Matcha, add cinnamon. It's going to be a little bit of a cortisol lowering effect. Add glycine throughout the day. It's a neurotransmitter effect, so it can actually calm you down a little bit and keep cortisol levels from getting too out of hand. A big one you want to pay attention to is when you start getting hungry, go for a walk. That makes a big difference. Okay. I also want you to resistance train a little bit during these longer fasts. Sleep during a 48 hour fast is hard. You have adrenaline pumping and it makes it harder to sleep. So I recommend you have a little cortisol lowering stack. Little cinnamon and some tea or something before bed. 4 to 500 milligrams of magnesium glycinate or thrienate. Theanonine is a great one. 2 to 400 milligrams of theine. 3 g of glycine has shown to help you sleep and lower cortisol. And a cool one is like a 25 to 30 milligrams of saffron extract. I've done videos on saffron. In this video I'll link out to them. The next thing is you want to break your fast with bone broth on these longer fasts. Remember the whole gut stem cell thing. Don't be throwing a bunch of food in there, okay? Your gut's sensitive. Bone broth is going to help coat the gut. The gelatin is going to help a little bit and you're going to be able to kind of give your gut what it needs. Another thing you may want to do is potentially supplement with glutamine. Five grams of glutamine. This is fuel for the interosytes, the cells within our gut lining. So it gives them fuel so they can actually prep for food to come in. Okay. Okay, so a little bit of bone broth, a little bit of glutamine, and then maybe an hour or so later, break your fast. You can break your fast with lean protein. I don't recommend you break it with carbs. I bring the carbs in later. You're extra sensitive right now. Let the body just soak up the fuel that it needs. The whole day that you break your fast, you want to keep food volume pretty low. You don't want to go crazy on it. You'll get actually a nice potent GLP-1 effect where it keeps you satiated if you have enough protein, good healthy fats. Get some things like rogue fort like some blue cheese that are rich in spermine kind of continues autophagy a bit and just kind of let this day be a calm eating day and keep it as low carb as you can and then the next day get a good workout in and resume your normal healthy diet. I did a video that breaks down a little bit more on how to improve sleep leveraging saffron. It's a very fascinating compound. So that link is right here. recommend you check that video out to learn a little bit more about how to calm yourself down at night because all your results are going to be sabotaged if you don't sleep well. So, link out to that one and as always, keep it locking here on my channel. See you tomorrow.