Navigating Trader Joe's is like navigating downtown Edmonton, Alberta. I mean, it's just I actually have no idea what it's like to navigate Edmonton, but I can only imagine in the winter it's difficult. Anyhow, let's move into this. In all seriousness, I wanted to make it very easy for you to go into Trader Joe's, have a basic grocery list. Sure, I could give you a basic PDF, but it helps to have a little bit of explanation. We're going to do this different as I go down the list relatively quick. We'll also be able to cut to some what is called B-roll footage of going into the store, kind of showing you where these items are to make it really easy. So, let's just jump right in. If you haven't already, please hit this red subscribe button, too. Okay, so we'll start with the proteins. Organic ground chicken. They now have organic ground chicken. Before they only had regular ground chicken. Ground chicken has a higher fat content, so ideally, you want to get it in the organic form. If they don't have it, their all natural ground chicken is still good, but I'm a fan of ground chicken just because it's so easy. Okay? So, it's a big staple for me. uh 99% lean ground turkey. Do not go for higher fat ground turkey. Ground turkey generally has higher levels of well quite honestly just garbage in it. So I go for the leanest possible ground turkey that I can. Uh their air chilled organic chicken breast. If you can't find their their air chilled one, they still have the regular organic chicken breast. Try to find ones that do not have like the weird striations across them. A lot of times if you look at chicken, you'll see there's these lateral striations and it's usually really rubbery. I don't know what it is about Trader Joe's, but everywhere in the country, every single Trader Joe's that I've gone to, if I've gotten the ones that have the striations, it's like it's weird. Anyway, just avoid that. Uh 96% lean ground beef. This makes my shopping list because it's really hard to find 96% lean ground beef. The nice thing is that lean, it doesn't even really need to be 100% grass-fed grass-finish because it's so lean. You're getting a huge benefit. You're not getting as much of the potential things that are going to be floating through the meat that's going to be in the fat. Okay. Then they do have one option for grass-fed ground beef. That one is a good one. It's just a higher fat content. Generally speaking, I like leaner cuts of meat because it allows me to control my calories. It also allows me to control the fatty acid profile I'm trying to get a little bit more of because grass-fed, grass-finish is really the way to go. I also put the pre-cooked bacon in there because whether you want to microwave it or you want to oven bake it or whatever, it's just nice because it's super convenient. So, I put that in there under meat even though it could kind of fall under deli meat. Uh, also if you want to get grass-fed, grass-finish meat outside of Trader Joe's, I highly recommend ButcherBox, by the way. They're who I use. I actually don't buy a whole lot of my meat from Trader Joe's anymore because Butcher Box usually delivers it. So, there is a link down below, so that way you can get grass-fed, grass-finished, high quality meat like your New York steaks, your ribe eyes, your fillets, all that stuff delivered to your doorstep. And they've been supporting this channel for so many years, and I think a lot of subscribers on this channel will testify that they are very happy with ButcherBox. So, check them out. There's a special link down below and if you haven't already tried them, you're missing out. You definitely have to check them out. So, special link down below in the description. Okay, the eggs and dairy. The Chino Valley eggs claim to be pasture eggs or free range, but there is some question out there whether that's true or not. I haven't been able to get down to the nitty-gritty of it. But still, that being said, that's the best kind of egg you're going to find at Trader Joe's. The free range ones that are in the clear packet uh package, they used to kind of trick me, but I learned a little bit about free range, learning that that's not really what you always want to lean into. Uh, so anyway, the Chino Valley eggs, the unsweetened almond milk, the unsweetened vanilla almond milk is still okay, but there's some flavoring in there that might be questionable. Unsweetened coconut milk. Okay. Uh, organic heavy cream. Pretty much goes without saying, don't get the standard heavy cream, get the organic. It's quite a bit cleaner, especially when that high of fat content. Uh, the cultured or salted Trader Joe's butter. It's next to the Cary Gold. Okay, so this European cultured salted uh Trader Joe's butter is out of Britany, France, and it's cultured and made a little bit different. It actually tastes delicious. Uh yogurt cheese. In their cheese section, they have these slices of yogurt cheese. Like it's cheese that's made from yogurt versus from regular like milk, dairy, so it's actually got a little bit of a probiotic effect. Goat cheese slices. Now again, a lot of the cheese and stuff you could have some more cheeses. These are just my kind of favorite items. Uh, aged Gouda. There's a few different options there. Uh, Gouda is good in general, but if it's aged, all the better. Okay. Also, just regular good old-fashioned unsweetened Greek yogurt. Don't want to have a ton of it because there are some carbs in it, but it's still a nice thing to add to the mix. What about deli meats? Okay. Organic turkey breast, which is pretty easy to find. Uh, pushcido, because pushcuto is really just ham and salt, or pork and salt, excuse me. Uh, pushcido wrapped cheese as a snack. I get the cheese sticks that are wrapped in pushcuto. not something you want to have every day, but they're just a fun snack for me. Oh, also I'll put a link down below for a PDF copy of this. That way, if you want to have it in like a printable sheet, you could take it with you. So, there'll be a link down below for Butcher Box, which I highly recommend you check out. And there'll be a link down below to download a PDF version of this as well. Okay, so produce. This is kind of cool. Okay, the organic bagged broccoli. That's not one I recommend cooking in the bag. I would recommend dumping that out and steaming it, whatever. But they do have the non-organic one that they claim to be BPA free and steam in bag. I've done it a few times, but I try not to ingest a heck of a lot of plastic that way. But it's time and time again, right? Microwavable asparagus and microwavable Brussels sprouts. They have them in these again, these little plastic kind of containers that have a perforated top so you can put them in and steam them. They already have some oil on them. So that way when you cook them, they steam them with a little bit of oil and they taste delicious. Again, not something you do every day, but sure as heck makes it convenient to get your veggies in. Uh, organic spinach goes without saying. Roasted broccoli and roasted cauliflower. This is a relatively new item where they're in like a kind of a vacuum-sealed pack already cooked, already roasted, and already seasoned in olive oil. So, it's a tremendous combination. You can heat it up, you can eat it cold, you can do whatever. Super convenient. Avocados do not need to be organic. They have enough of a skin to protect them. Uh, zoodles. So, a lot of times Trader Joe's will carry zucchini noodles. Uh, it's hit and miss, so you may or may not find them, but they're generally right by where the microwavable asparagus and stuff is. Usually down a little bit lower. Uh, Persian cucumbers. These are these little teeny cucumbers that you don't have to peel. You can just bite right into them. It's awesome. Moving into some pantry staples here. Macadamia nuts. Get the roasted salted ones, okay? Or get the ones that are unsalted. But the nice thing is they're dry roasted, so they don't have additional oils. Uh, they now just started carrying organic almond butter, which is so much better. Okay? It's in a smaller container and you can get it in salted or unsalted. Hazelnuts are also a good nut I would recommend. The Crown Prince brand oysters, those are the ones that I typically get because they are just well the ones that they have. Okay. And then nutritional yeast I put on just about everything. Tremendous source of vitamin B12. Tremendous source of all kinds of B vitamins, but also just makes things taste delicious. By the way, the reason I go for the oysters is the zinc content and the selenium content. One of the best, most powerful ketogenic foods you could eat. Um, okay. Chili lime seasoning. I just threw this in there because it's a it's a new seasoning that they have that is so dang good. You don't want to have a ton of it, but just add it to your ground beef. It tastes so good. Like if you cook up some of the butcher box beef and you put some of the chili limes. Anyway, I digress. It's just a favorite of mine. And then this is everything but the elote seasoning. That stuff is so my jam. And I know my videographer J.R. loves it too. We put it on pretty much everything. So again, ground beef, ground chicken. It just it's amazing. And I have to shout him out. There is some malttodextrin in there. don't have it like too much. Uh sardines and extravirgin olive oil because they do not have sardines in water, at least that I can find anymore. They used to. Coconut oil from TJ's is great. Uh the rabbi sauce, which is like a it's basically a tomato sauce, a marinara form. But that particular one does not have any sugar added to it, so it's perfect on keto. Uh chili pepper sauce. Okay, it's in a smaller bottle. There is no salt in it. There's no garlic in it. It is completely like good to go with barely any like there's pretty much no seasoning. It's just chili pepper. So, it's so delicious and it's not overly hot, but that way you're not going to get a bunch of bloating or sodium or anything like that from it. It's super simple. The seaweed snacks are delicious at Trader Joe's. The Montazuma dark chocolate, which I've talked about in my videos before. Totally unsweetened, but they have it in a form with cocoa nibs. They have it in the form with almonds. It's super delicious. Highly recommend it. Uh going to help you get fat adapted. It helps that mitochondrial biogenesis. They have ghee as clarified butter. So they called they call it clarified butter, but then in parentheses it says ghee. The frozen section, I could go on and on and on with the frozen section, but I kept it really short here because I almost just do a separate video on that. Their sckeye salmon in the frozen section is the only one that's wild caught. The sckeye salmon in their meat section is not wild caught. Cauliflower stir fry rice. My wife makes amazing cauliflower stir fry. It is so good. Uh, this stirfry rice does have peas and it does have some of those things that you just kind of have to eat around them or have a small amount. Uh, stir fry veggies. They have a bag of stir-fried veggies, which is great with like kind of some of the mushrooms and some of the pea pods and stuff like that. Uh, wild blueberries, berries and keto are fine if you have a small amount of them. Uh, bison is in their frozen section, so it's sometimes not always there, but their ground bison is delicious. And FDA standards on bison are much, much better. By the way, ButcherBox does offer bison once you are a member. So, once you're a member, you can get bison through ButcherBox. Very high quality stuff. Uh, cauliflower mashed potatoes or cauliflower mash. Uh, it's not the cleanest cauliflower mash because they have a little bit of rice starch in it. So, I'm not the biggest fan, but it's technically keto friendly and it will work. Beverages. The organic green tea, their brewable form, is good to go. The organic cold brew, it's over by the butter. It's kind of in a weird spot. It's by their kombuchas and thing like that. Uh it's in a little funky looking bottle, but I love that stuff and it's one of the few coffees that doesn't crash me. Uh Tahava black tea. I don't know what they put in that stuff, but it is so potent. So if you need a kick in the butt that isn't coffee, that Tava tea is great. And then the blueberry pomegranate green tea that's in the bottle is really, really good. Now, there's some other beverages and stuff like that, but these are just kind of my random go-tos. I didn't even look through my receipt. I literally sat down and wrote what I memorized, what I get at TJ's. So this obviously I get this stuff a lot because it just came out of memory. So anyhow, as always, keep it locked in. Don't forget to check out ButcherBox. And again, if you want a PDF form of this, I'll put it down below so that you can just click and download it. See you tomorrow.