Even one of my ex-competitors, Shawn Ray, we were like better rivals in a way [applause] and he liked to talk a lot and he's like, "I think I made a mistake." I said, "Yes, you did. Thanks for that energy." When people said I couldn't, I was, "Oh, thanks for I'm going to show you." >> Winner of Mr. Olympia, Dorian. I >> mean, ego is not always a bad thing. So, I'm sure you must have an ego to want to be the best in the world. >> Dorian just keeps getting bigger and bigger and more muscular every year. And we wonder where it's going to stop. Dorian Yates, do you think that bodybuilding creates an ego that eventually needs to be dismantled? >> Absolutely. I mean, ego is not always a bad thing, right? You know, I if if I didn't have an ego, you wouldn't want to be the best in the world at something. So, it can be a positive or a negative, pretty much like anything. So I'm sure you must have an ego to want to be the best in the world at something as I did. But there's more to it. But there's always going to be ego aspect there, you know. Why would you want to be better than somebody? You why would you want to be the best? So ego is not necessarily a negative. You can use it to your advantage as long as you're like aware of it, I think, and you're in you're in control of the ego. And um I kind of had to uh control my ego or not give it up but control it in order to change directions. Uh after I did the bodybuilding and assess what do I want, what do I need, how do I get there and uh that's a big challenge and I think a lot for a lot of sports people especially when they retire. Yeah, >> that's where it started for me. Like who am I really outside? I mean, I've been you're almost playing a part especially if you're like the champion of the sport because you're you're representing the sport as well. So, you're always like carrying that like which maybe you're you're conscious of that all the time. So, I better not do this or not do that because I'm representing the sport as well. So, being Mr. Olympia became became me became my image and then when I retired it's not there anymore so how do I adjust to that and that definitely took some time and uh something I'm aware of if you look a lot of athletes when they finish and when they retire they have problems mental problems and so on because they don't have that absolute goal perhaps to strive for and also who am I now outside of that. So, uh that was a big adjustment for me and um to learn when to change lanes uh for your benefit. So, Mr. Olympia was my sport and my goal that I trained for and put everything into, but that approach was not necessarily beneficial to me further along the line. So uh I had to give up the ego and uh I forced myself actually to to not force myself but I wanted to try other things do other things where I wasn't any good I wasn't uh I wasn't the champion you know I started up some point doing yoga and I would have laughed about that probably when I was a kid 25 years old lifting heavy weights that's just [\h__\h] for women um and I went to the class and you know you got to balance on one leg and or stuff I hadn't done before and I was pretty shitty at it but uh it was a good test to give up the ego. So I like to go into areas where I'm a little bit uncomfortable and since I've retired from professional bodybuilding I've done yoga, I've done pilates. I learned horse riding. Uh I would bike and up the mountains. I've done pilateses. So, it's all what do I need to be the best uh at what I'm trying to do now, which is to be healthy, have a good quality of life, have a balanced uh mind, and all that's taken a lot of time because bodybuilding is a very extreme sport and trying to be the best of the world at at anything is very extreme. So, uh, I feel now I'm really at a place of balance and whatever I do, uh, physically is what I need now. So, I don't lift heavy weights. I do a little bit of weight training because I want to maintain the muscle mass I've got. Uh, but I don't need excessive amounts of muscle mass. It wouldn't be beneficial for what I'm trying to do. I like to go hiking. I like to ride bikes. I like to be very mobile. And bodybuilding training is not helping with that. In fact, it might be uh not helpful. So, I think I I've kind of gave up the ego to do all those things that were uncomfortable where I think if you look across bodybuilding, uh people struggle with that because they're just comfortable being that guy, you know, and that's the role they continue to play after they've retired and throughout their life because they're comfortable there. They're, you know, they're the man there. They got love. They got fame or what whatever it is. Um, >> it's a feeling. They're chasing a feeling. >> Yeah. And I'm quite happy that I don't need that. And uh, so I haven't given up the ego because we all got it's part of it's your self-portrait of who you are, right? Who you think you are, that's your ego. Uh so I've changed the picture of who I think I am to my benefit. I think at this point there's a uh a cool uh a spiritual teacher that I've listened to a lot Shanti and he talks about like the uh the self-image and how the literal term is an image. It's a s self-image. >> Self-portrait. This is who I think I am. Whatever it is, you know, I'm AI'm a man. >> Uh I'm white or I'm this, I'm that. It's your own self-portrait. But you can change that >> to be what you want to be, right? You know, you if you can change your mind, change your imagination, you're changing your reality. We're projecting our reality all the time. Uh maybe people are not aware of that, but how you think is how things turn out for you. After today's video, I popped a link down below for Seed Daily Symbiotic. So, if you're trying to make any kind of dietary change or different lifestyle at all, one of the first things you want to focus on is your gut health. A lot of things start there. When we look at the world of the microbiome, it's pretty complicated, right? We're just starting to scratch the surface some of the science there. The cool thing is is Seed is paving the way for a lot of that research. They've got multiple clinicals. They've really looked at the data and how this stuff works. So, that symbiotic down below, that is a 20% off discount link for their prebiotic and probiotic that's inside one capsule. So, you get proper absorption throughout the right areas of the digestive system. So, you're getting a prebiotic that breaks down first and then you have the probiotic that potentially colonizes a little bit later in the gut. So, again, that link down below gets you 20% off seeds daily symbiotic. You know, when you look at really intense training and training to legitimate failure, >> I think there's a little bit of an ego death that happens when you get to that point. >> And it's almost as though, and you and I talked a little bit about this, training becomes a true spiritual practice because you I think if anyone's really pushed themselves to that true failure, >> there's not enough energy in your body to cling to that ego anymore. You do sort of let go even in that moment and you kind of you turn it over to the universe, right? Like you just this is true intensity where you're not in control of it anymore. >> Yeah. And it's u it's a spiritual challenge to to go into those zones of um surpassing your physical limits. And uh it happened to me a few times when I was younger. I looked back and I was like that was pretty unusual what I was doing then. But I didn't know that. Nobody told me. Um, so I think I was 11 years old and we had this thing at school where they wanted to raise money for a mini bus or something like that. So they had this charity run around the track thing and I never ran before, but I had this ego thing where I said to my friend who was a runner, I can beat you all, you know. So on the day all the kids run around the track and they drop out, they drop out, they drop out. And in the end there's just two of us, me and this guy that I said I'd beat running. But he his family were boxers and they run every day. I didn't but I don't know why I said I'm going to beat him. Um so I remember we did like 15 round of track something like that and start to get real uncomfortable. I struggling here but I can't give up cuz I'm not going to give up if this other guy doesn't right. So then he gave up, right? I don't know 15 20 times around the lap which was pretty good, right? And um something happens to me and I just kept running and I didn't feel anything anymore. I just went into a zone and uh the teacher was there. She had to, you know, mark down how many laps she did her thing and uh in the end she just said, "Look, Yates, you're going to stop because I need to go home, you know." So, I did 45, which is like a half marathon around the tracks with no training, 11 years old. And uh I don't know, nobody really said anything. I didn't think anything. And then later on when I'm doing bodybuilding, I was like, "Hey, I did some stuff when I was young that was crazy." Yeah. Just went through some barrier. So, I was aware of this. There's different levels, you know, that you can tap into. So for me, every workout was like a spiritual experience, you know, trying to push my limits and also my mental approach that I was going into the gym. It it was a war. I was slaying demons or whatever I was imagining in my mind. It was a life or death situation on every workout. That was my mentality. Of course, it wasn't, but that was my mentality. And I was slaying the demons of my traumas, angers, emotion, and I was using that as fuel for the workout. So in my mind I was taking something that was dark and negative and through the workout I was transforming it into something that was light because I was transforming this energy into building my body and building my career and uh everything like that. So I was kind of transforming everything that I had that was negative fueling it for the workout and then after the workout I'm like it's all gone. Yeah. I feel relaxed now. So every time it was like that and I never went to the gym casually. Oh, I'm, you know, I'm going to have a workout today. It was all planned, predetermined, pre-practices in my mind. Like I'll rehearse that. I would sit down as I took notes of every workout. I had last week's workout, what I did, how many sets, uh, reps, weights, and any notes about anything that was relevant. So, I'd see I did that last week. I'll sit down for the five minutes. That's what I This is what I want to do today. A reasonable goal. You know, maybe it's just one rep more or something more, but trying to do more and put myself into that frame of mind that was just locked in. like I would look walk into the gym looking at the floor, not trying to catch anyone's eye, just in the zone and go do my thing. And uh I was reminded cuz I met up with some old friends last time I went back to England that were there when I first started training. Maybe they were in the gym before me and uh they're like, "Listen, we were there in the gym, you know, doing some sets, blah, have some fun and you know, and this kid, we saw you just like from day one, absolute tunnel vision, focus, not talking to anyone, come in training." They said, "We we noticed it right at the start that this this kid was something different." And that was the mental aspect. the mental focus and the mental strength that I had that uh was uncommon I think and the feeling was that I have to do this. this is a life mission that I have to do. And uh those few first few years I gave up a lot or you know my friends were driving cars. I didn't have a car. I couldn't afford a car. But everything was going into my training and uh I never felt like I was missing out on anything because I knew I was being rewarded with something more valuable along the way. And uh in the end it was a career but it was um it was a physical and mental challenge and the beauty was in that. You know contest is once a year. So it was a goal that I was working towards but it was a beautiful thing to have this goal and to be able to put all your energy into that and other people didn't have that. So you can have a car, you could have whatever you want, but you don't have this. You can't put a value on it. And yeah, I did earn good money doing my career and everything. So it was always a combination of things, but the root where it started from was this life mission that I had and this was it in my case was bodybuilding. And uh I knew I had to get my head down, don't be distracted, tunnel vision. And uh if I didn't do that, I wouldn't be sitting here now, would I? I wouldn't be who who would want to listen to me, you know? So everything in my life is down to that young kid that had this intense focus and didn't let anything get in the way. Like literally my attitude was if my partner's on fire, I'll call the fire brigade and go to the gym and do my workout today. Everything is secondary to that. So I had this intense unusual focus and I enjoyed that process of pushing myself and having that ultimate goal and that's a struggle when that's not there anymore which every I think every top level athlete goes through through. We see a lot of people struggling with addictions and so on after they come out of their career because they don't have that anymore. That ultimate goal that you're striving toward, put all your energy, all your focus, your very soul into this goal, not there anymore. Uh you could plan for your retirement. I I couldn't really because I had an injury and it's like right bang, it's over. And uh how do you adjust to that is is a big challenge as well. >> Did you say that you were were ever suffering during your training or was your mindset so different that you could bring the intensity without it actually being suffering? Because that's an interesting word. >> I don't think I suffered during the workouts because it's just a challenge. I loved I love working out. I still love it. But it doesn't have to be weights, you know. It could be anything that it's a bit challenging uh that I love. I think the suffering, the struggle was really in that contest phase where you're on a restricted diet. >> Mhm. [clears throat] And unlike any other athletes, you're on a restricted diet. And now you got to train even more to get into shape. Not necessarily more with the weights, but I had to do more cardio. I had to do posing practice. Uh so you you're training more you're training uh you have more activities to do and uh less calorie intake which is really difficult and this is a real mental challenge to stay on a diet to get into the condition uh of a Mr. Olympia at least back in the 90s and so on. I mean the condition was extreme and maybe I was one of the ones that that pushed that as well. Um so is it suffering? Not really. It's but it's the toughest phase. I think it's just another level of a challenge when I call it suffer. Call it what you want, man. But I think you just make it harder when you you call it suffering. I just call it a challenge, you know? And uh I hated to talk about it. Like how are you feeling? Are you hungry? Of course I [\h__\h] am. But if I talk about it, it'll it's more intense, right? So I'm it is what it is. I just put the blinkers on and go forward. But yeah, I mean literally first of all, your sleep's very disturbed >> because you, you know, if your blood sugar dips in the middle of the night, alarm bells go off in your body and you're awake. So your your sleep becomes kind of broken as well and your body fat's lower. Uh maybe a little bit dehydrated and that was a period where I got a couple of injuries because I was pushing my body and body fat was really low, probably a bit tired and so on. So when I coach people now, I'm like, yes, super intense training is great, but when the intake, calorie intake is lower, maybe it doesn't make sense to push to that point because you don't have the uh materials to build more muscle. So you're shifting your mentality to maintaining. Uh so that's something I adjust with my clients or, you know, looking back, what could I do differently? What could I do better? Uh I got injured twice but in the last 6 weeks before a contest because I was still going 100% but without the fuel. So uh I just sat with my clients now I say you build the muscle right you've already built it now the job is maintain the muscle lower the body fat. So we don't need to train past failing and stuff like that. So, little bit of adjustment, but yeah, absolutely. That's the toughest physically and mentally is that diet, getting into condition and going to the gym and still giving 100%. I mean, I would, but literally, I'd go home and I'd be like, you know, I can't move now. I'm done, you know. >> Yeah. And then your your sleep's just whacked out cuz your your whole nervous system is all screwed up. And >> yeah, I mean, >> you know, it looks amazing, right? foot are probably pretty unhealthy by the time you get on the stage in that condition. It's not something you maintain for very long. >> How did you ever handle the postcontest rebound without it messing with your head? I know that is something that people deal with a lot, right? Do you become adjusted to yourself looking a certain way and then that has to change? or were you so focused on what's next that that wasn't really a problem to be, you know, 2, three, 4% body fat and then go, okay, yes, you're there's going to be a rebound. The rebound is going to be fast because metabolic rate has shifted. >> Yeah. >> Was that >> and it got easier, right? Because I remember the first time I did a contest diet, >> I mean, as soon as I finished, I ate so much that, you know, my stomach was hurting, right? I remember because uh I did I did my first contest and then I got invited onto the team, British team to go to the World Games, which is a complete shock and I wasn't ready for it. I was broke, you know. Imagine how it feels. I go and won this contest and it was a novice contest in the IFBB, but the judges and the the guys that ran the federation, they were like freaked out like where's this kid come from? We want you to be on the team next week for a world championship. And uh yeah, I wasn't ready for that. And I was literally broke. I'm like, this this is kind of feels strange. I'm being invited to this big contest and I'm like, I don't have any money to for anything cuz I spent it all for this contest. Yeah. So, I have to borrow some money and uh all this stuff. So, my first contest then I was straight into two weeks later, which is I don't think it ever happened before into high level competition. >> Yeah. That's a uh would you say over the over the years you you learned how to sort of think >> Yeah. I mean I ate so much my stomach was hurting. I remember lying down on the bed in the hotel. Oh, I'm sorry. I won't eat anymore. Just you know and then half an hour later the just going down I would eat more. So it each time became easier. I wouldn't in the end I wouldn't uh pig out and you know I just slowly introduce the foods back and uh most guys after the Mr. Olympia, they take like at least a month off completely off training and relax and uh I never did that. Um because I like training. >> Yeah. >> So I would have stopped for a month. Uh I didn't get it. And uh so after a contest I might do photo shoots and stuff like that for a week. Uh so that the magazines at the time you only have magazines on internet, right? So the the magazines had enough photos and everything to like last the year around. Then I go back home and I'm like uh [clears throat] yeah, one of the uh journalists at the M Olympia one time is like uh so congratulations and blah blah blah blah. So tell me when uh when would you start preparing for next year's contest? I was like next week. No, but when we start getting for it like next week. Next week I go back to the gym and I'm thinking about next year already. So I never really had that rebound too much and I learned to control it. I was just like let's get back into training for next year. Was your was your childhood unusual in a way that it catapulted you into because bodybuilding at least for me and training hard has always been in retrospect it felt like it was one aspect of the universe I could control when in reality I probably couldn't even control that but it felt like this is this is safety for me this is a safe place because uh when everything else mom everything's kaput and crazy this is one thing that I I felt uh no No one's coming to save me. I got control in this. >> Um but a lot of times there's a catalyst. I mean was there >> Absolutely. I can relate to that. Yeah. Because um my father died at 13 and then my mom was going to get remarried and the guy that she was going to get remarried to died as well. I mean one guy was 42, the other one was 44. Both died from heart attacks within a year. So I lost my dad and then I lost my stepdad and my mom was now I look back my mom was probably suffering from stress and mental issues from this you know trauma that she'd been through. So, she wasn't well equipped to look after me, a guy that lost his father and had to move from uh a rural setting. Like, we had a little farm with dogs and couple of horses and ducks and cats and had three big fields to play in and everything. And then we moved to the big city and her new partner died. So, we're there. And I just felt like the adults in my life haven't got a clue. I can't wait to to be able to, you know, control everything in my life. So that was and bodybuilding is very at least it was then. It's a little bit different now because people have coaches and trainers and none of that existed, right? So it was a very individual pursuit. You got to go to the gym. You got to lift the weights. You got to organize your diet. You got to stick to your diet. So, for me, it was great. I'm taking the reigns on my life. I'm taking control. And this is something control. Um, nobody's telling me, "Hey, didn't you better go to the gym? Uh, didn't you better pay your bills?" No, nobody's there. If I don't pay my bills, I'm on the street. if I don't go to the gym and do this, I got this is my future I'm building. So there was definitely that I got control over this whole thing. I was never really uh so much interested in team sports. >> Yeah. >> Um so uh I think mentally I was made for bodybuilding. That's what I thought. I'm just mentally made for this. physically um good genetics as well, but there would be other people probably who could say genetically were ahead, but they didn't have the mental tenacity and drive and consistency that I had. So, I was able to sail past them. Was there ever much consideration of your competition throughout your training or was it in terms of your competitors or was it really much more a competition with yourself day in and day out even at the mass elite level? >> It was more internal competition but let's say uh somebody says something negative about me, one of my competitors or something like that, I wouldn't even respond but it was in my head. >> Yeah. And uh I hope you don't have no language restrictions on this channel because I called it [\h__\h] you motivation. >> Everything was you to my parents that I didn't think did a good job to the system to the people that got me locked up in a detention center like you and I'm going to show everybody. And that was that was real fuel for me. >> Yeah. I think almost, >> you know, your generation, even even my generation, I think, you know, we'll talk later about the uh kind of the current generation of bodybuilders, which I feel is quite a bit different, but there is almost always a little bit of a you mentality. Yeah. >> You know, and it wasn't this dark, you know, demonic type [\h__\h] you mentality. It was a you don't understand me. >> Yeah. Thanks for the energy, by the way. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. It's uh the amount of people, you know, when I would spend my time in the gym, the amount of people that would have passive comments to make or people it's I mean there's always this mentality of you don't know me, you don't understand. >> I will show you and I will show you through my work and you may not recognize it, >> but I will. And um >> I had a a picture that I put on the wall of my gym cuz you got to think back to the 1980s, 80s, 90s. Bodybuilding was an American sport. Everything was based here. All the champions were here. All the gyms were here. Uh the Weda magazines was here, the Weda Empire. Uh it was very American. Now it's much more international. Uh, so there was this general feeling around in England in the bodybuilding community, maybe even my own gym, you can't do this, man. You can't beat the Americans. Are they like a different race or something? Like it and they men with two arms and two legs and so what? They might have better gyms and it might be the center, but I don't care, man. Uh, so I put this poster on the wall um after I won my first Mr. Olympia, thanks to all the non-believers. Now you can kiss. And my friend said, "Well, but why did you put that? Why didn't you put thanks to all the people that supported me instead of that?" I said, "Because these guys gave me more energy than the people that said, "Yeah, you can do it." That didn't really help me. Yeah, I know I can. But when people said I couldn't, I was, "Oh, thanks for I'm going to show you." Even one of my ex-competitors, Shawn Ray, you know, we were like kind of bitter rivals in a way because we're total opposites and he liked to talk a lot. And he's like, "I think I made a mistake. Didn't I talking about you?" I said, "Yes, you did. Thanks for that energy." He's like, "Yeah, I get it now." >> You know, >> it's almost You've said a couple things so far that I mean, you were almost an alchemist in a way. I mean, you could alchemize that, right? It's I think it's it's an ego contraction when you start to defend and when you start to have those things shut you down. That really is your ego becoming so upset over the fact that someone said something about that self-portrait, that self-image >> that I think deep down you knew that that self-image was just an image that wasn't you. And you could take that you could take that fodder that they give you and alchemize it into something. >> Absolutely. I'll show you. You know, that's that's that's the thing that was always been my energy. And uh I did struggle a little bit after my first Mr. Olympia. I got second to Lee Haney. He's the reigning champion. Um and he retired. So logically I got second. He's retired. So logically now I'm the favorite. And yeah, I struggled with that for a bit cuz my whole life I was like I'm the underdog. I'm going to show you. I'm from this little gym in a basement in Birmingham that it's definitely not a hot bit of uh bodybuilding activity. Um and because of that, oh, you can't do it. You can't do it. Um and I was the first Mr. Olympia to win the title actually uh residing outside the US. Of course, you had Arnold Schwarzenegger won Mr. Olympia, but he was already resident and residing in the US. So it I think it opened people's uh you know once somebody does something then it becomes easier. So once I became Mr. Olympia and I was from England I think it opened up the whole you know Europe and Middle East and everybody saying well hey maybe I can do it then where in the past they thought oh can't be these American guys for some reason. Where would you say you you almost draw a line between discipline and obsession or or >> That's a good question, right? Um and over the years I've learned a lot more flexibility and I learned that through getting injured because previously I'd be like listen I set out to do this and I'm going to do it. But maybe sometimes the signals that you know maybe you shouldn't. But because you've already determined that you're going to do it, you're just going to go through it. And I think that mentality in a way sometimes worked against me. That's why I got injured because I was just going to keep going to keep pushing and keep pushing. So it's something you need to temper and control which is is very difficult even for contests like I think I always I tried not to but I think I always kind of over overp preppared a little bit um and probably yeah I could have gone into the contest bigger but I was like no I need to get you know go past a little bit always it was very difficult to to control that as a as a competitor cuz you're like go forward, go forward, go forward or sometimes it's like no, you should uh you know uh take it easy here because your body and your mind signals are telling you something else. But I was so used to overriding it uh it becomes a habit. So that was a bit hard to temper but I figured that's better than not doing enough. >> I' I'd always tend to overdo things then I'd never underdo things. >> Yeah. And I think you you you touched on something inadvertently by saying even the word habit. It's I've often thought that there's a big difference between habit and discipline. And for many years and probably still now people will say, "Oh, Thomas, you know, you're disciplined. You you uh train every every morning at 5 or 6 a.m. you do it." Like, you know, that's that's not discipline. That's habit. Because it would honestly be >> it would be more difficult. It would take more discipline for me to not go. >> Yeah. Absolutely. It would that's a that's a side of discipline as well to be able to control yourself. Maybe you set out to do five days a week, but your body's telling you, "Hey, after four days, man, you need to rest, but you've already predetermined that you're doing five, so you just push through and do five because you feel like if you didn't, you've let yourself down because you've already told yourself that you're going to do it." Um, and to be able to be flexible with that and control that, that's somewhat an art. I think that you got to learn through experience. >> You know what I found and I think you'll appreciate this is those days that you train when you when every signal in your body and from the universe is telling you you probably shouldn't train today. >> Yeah. I only find myself trading on those days when I subconsciously feel that I didn't give it my all on the subsequent three or four days or the previous three or four days. >> Yeah, >> it's make up for it. >> You you have to make up for it, right? And it's I think that when you give that adequate intensity that you really set out to give, there's a sense of completion that allows you to sort of fulfill that that contract with yourself. And it's sometimes those couple reps in reserve that you left when you know you could have had a couple more and you uh you know you you you gave up a little earlier than you really would have wanted to. That's when that I call it like volume creep comes in, right? You take that extra that extra volume, that extra day when if you had have just stuck to your guns and had the focus that you really wanted to, then that extra day wouldn't have creeped in in the first place. >> It always depends. I talk to people about this. I'm like, if you're really driven, you know, and you got this drive, and you get up in the morning and you're supposed to go to the gym today according to your schedule and your plan, but you really don't feel like it. Are you being lazy today or is it signals from your mind and your body saying, "Hey, I I need to rest today." And I think if you're a disciplined person, it's not going to be laziness, right? Because that's not your nature. So if you're getting you're getting up in the morning and you feel tired and you don't feel like going today, probably you should listen to that, you know, because not you're not being lazy. You need to rest. And if you took that day's rest that you went in and you you fell short, I probably fell short because your body needed rest. So it would be better to listen to that that day and say, "Hey, my mind and my body is telling me for some reason don't go today. So let me listen, see how I feel tomorrow, and tomorrow you probably feel better and go in and have a great workout." So, it's better to miss that day that you had that less than optimal workout because your body and your mind didn't want to do it, man. Yeah. >> You know, and it's not you being lazy because you're a disciplined person. So, laziness don't really exist. >> Yeah. >> In that kind of a mind somebody else it might be something else. So, I tell people when you get that feeling don't want to go to the gym today, analyze what that is. Is that feedback or is that just you like I just don't want to go today. So you have to decide what it is. >> Yeah. There's a there's a confidence I'm saying to yourself. I know I'm not that person because it's the fear of becoming that person that you don't want to be. The fear of becoming that person that does just skip the gym because they're a little bit tired or skip the gym because something's more important to them, right? Or it's something >> it's like this this aversion not wanting to become that person. And there's a difference between listening to the signals or listening to that voice. >> Exactly. And uh you got to make that determination. What is it here that is kind of telling me not to go to the gym today? And if you've laid down a foundation of, you know, being disciplined and doing it and doing it and doing it, yes, it becomes a habit. So, um, to get that flexibility that that's the ultimate, you know, to be able to control your discipline cuz it, you know, this drive, this discipline, as I said, it can sometimes work against you as it did for me. So, to be able to control that drive is is the ultimate. I'm not sure I've ever really got there when I was competing because you got this desperate goal and you got other people chasing you as well. And uh there's many factors going on there. Now I'm like I don't feel like going to a gym today. I don't you know I just don't go. I do something else. I go for a walk or ride my bike or or whatever. So but I don't have that all consuming absolute life goal that's driving me now. You know I feel very balanced. Uh uh I'm doing it for my health. So what do I need is the question. What do I need now from my body which is my vehicle in order to experience life? And if this body, this machine that I'm inside doesn't work very well, I'm not going to have a good quality of life. So, what do I need? Yeah, it's great to maintain your muscle mass as you're getting older for all the health reasons that I'm sure we're familiar with. Uh but I don't need excessive amounts. Uh actually I did an exercise which was physical but it was also mental ego check few years ago I was uh still weighing like 250 but you know residual muscle mass from my training I was staying 250 and I was doing still eating the same kind of way more or less still doing the same things because that's what I do right and I said I just checked myself I went to the have a health checkup and my blood pressure was a little too high. Nothing crazy, but I don't know. It just triggered something. Why am I just going to lose weight? So, I went on a low protein diet and actively lost muscle mass to bring my body weight down for health reasons. And uh it was interesting to observe myself. It was interesting to observe other people uh because I was very comfortable with it. I don't care. and other people like, "Oh man, you're losing too much weight. You're getting skinny now." And like I'm doing what I need to do for me. I don't really care about anyone's opinion. And uh was very [clears throat] refreshing. I was like, "Wow, I don't even give a shit." Uh so I came down from 250 to 230, which is where I sit now. So I was quite amused. I was like, "Isn't this strange?" Uh [clears throat] for all most part of my adult life, I've done everything to build as much muscle mass as I can. And now I'm actively trying to lose some of it because I feel it's not beneficial at this point. So I'm just jettisoning it. And uh yeah, I don't care because it's what I need. I need to lose weight. I'll be more functional. And I do training. I did uh yoga. I did Pilates. is I did some functional type training because I need to be uh mobile. I need to have good flexibility, good strength, good endurance. That's what I need for the rest of my life. I want to go hiking through the mountains. I want to do that in 10 years time, whatever. So, that's what I need. And uh it was a great exercise to just totally lose the ego because I'm Mr. Olympia. Everyone's looking at me like, you know, and I get young guys still, you know, they don't get it right. So, don't you wish you was as big as I'm like, no. And a seminar somebody asked me, I said, "All right, let me ask you a question. I want the whole audience a question." And I want you to put your hand up here. If you know a 300B man who is over 70, no hands. Does it answer your question? I don't care if he's obese or it's muscle, whatever it is. I'm a 300 lb guy, unless he's like, you know, 2 m tall or something. Uh so, in other words, carrying excess body weight, even if it's muscle, may not be healthy as you get older. So I'm training now for my health, not for a competition that finished uh nearly 30 years ago. It's not uh it's not relevant to me anymore that goal that you know I'm here for my health and my well-being mental and physical and uh to be also a role model for other people. And uh that's really the whole point of it I think right now I did it for myself of course at first bodybuilding but it gave me a platform and people listen to me and I just want to be a positive force and I'm in a position to do it. So that's my current goal apart from my own personal you know uh health goals. >> Amen to that man. Well Dorian where can everyone find you man? uh you know they can find me on Instagram the Dorian Yates that's my personal uh Instagram, Facebook and got the company one as well DY Nutrition uh which is we're doing great in Europe and Middle East now got our own manufacturing facility and uh we got a whole new r you know is a bodybuilding range but I've been working in the background with my team to bring out a range that is relevant and I'm interested in now which I'm interested in longevity and uh quality of life and aging and what uh supplements uh is relevant to that area. So that's the next phase of my business in the next year. We're bringing out a whole range uh DY life products which is more in the health and uh wellness longevity which is now as I was a kid when I was obsessed with bodybuilding reading as much as I could and I'm doing the same in that area because it's it's where I'm at now. It's what what's relevant and interesting to me and I want to share that with my customers who you know like I got a lot of young kids that follow me. I've got a lot of people of my age that, you know, grew up with me and they're like, "Hey, it's very interesting how you made that transition from bodybuilding to what you're doing now and you look great and you're moving and, you know, my back's hurting. This is hurting." And I'm like, "You need to change what you're doing cuz what you're doing is not helping you now. It may be even damaging you." So, the fact that I've been able to do that as, you know, the number one bodybuilder and I'll be able to do it without like, you know, uh feeling like uh I've lost myself. Yeah. >> Then other people can do it as well. So, I'm here to, you know, to be a light as much as I can in whatever way that turns out. >> Take care, man. Well, thanks, brother. I appreciate, man. >> Cool.