I'm always looking for different alternatives to flour. I don't eat gluten. I know a lot of you don't eat gluten. So, I'm always looking for new ways to get around that. Well, coincidentally, a couple of weeks ago, I was sitting on a plane flying to Idaho and I sat next to a gentleman that worked in the wheat industry. And he was all upset and he was talking to me about this thing called TE. Now, I'd heard a little bit about TE before. It's an Ethiopian grain. And I I knew a little bit about it. I knew it was gluten-free, but I didn't know it was becoming such a big deal and such a threat. So, I was really interested. So, I heard him out on it and then I went home and started investigating a little bit myself. But before I get into what TE is, I want to explain why we need to start looking for gluten-free alternatives and why so many people are having issues with gluten these days that may not have had issues even 10 years ago. You see, it's not about the gluten. It's more about the selective breeding and the changing and the modification of wheat as a whole. You see, basically, we're thinking about mass production of wheat. We're breeding the wheat and making the wheat so that it can be mass-produced, but not thinking about how our bodies are responding to it. So, what's happening is we're getting these new strains of wheat, these new strains of of basically grains that our bodies don't know how to assimilate. So, it's creating these intolerances where we get sick. That's why it's so important to start finding some gluten-free alternatives and why we're seeing so many people having issues. Now, we've got like 50,000 different foods out there that we could ultimately be making flowers and stuff with, but what's crazy is that twothirds of our entire plant food sources are coming from three cereals. They're coming from wheat, they're coming from rice, and they're coming from corn. It's super important to get a diversification of grains and a diversification of foods in general in your body. So, that's why TE is pretty interesting. So, TE is an Ethiopian grain, like I mentioned before. And if you've ever had inera, which is an Ethiopian pancake, that is predominantly what it's made from. It actually gets a really spongy kind of a voluupuous feel to it. It really has a a strong amount of bulk to it. Extremely high in fiber. But the cool thing about TE is it's naturally gluten-free. And the protein structures within TE are different from that of traditional grains. So if you have a general grain issue where you can't do rice, you can't do gluten, te might be something that you can actually use without having an issue. But it's pretty unique. It doesn't really stop there. See, TE is extremely high in something called lysine. And lysine is an amino acid that is super super important, especially when it comes to building lean muscle mass. Now, in addition to that, it's also one of the highest plant sources of iron. So, if you're vegetarian and you're vegan, and eating meat is difficult or impossible for you, then TE is a good way that you can get an abundant amino acid profile, but also the iron that you need that you ordinarily wouldn't get from a vegetarian or vegan diet. Now, of course, in addition to that, exceptionally high in fiber, so it's going to lower your blood sugar as well. And if you mix it with rice flour, you basically end up with something that is a similar consistency to that of wheat flour. Now, there's a lot of new stuff coming out about TE, but I wanted to do this video just to bring it to your attention so you can start checking it out, start implementing it into your diet and see if it affects you in a positive way. Help you get some of those carbs in without the impact on your blood sugar and help get you some of the nutrients, the protein, and the iron that you need to feel your best. As always, keep it locked in here on my videos, and I will keep you posted with more to come on the wheat industry and their adversary, Te. See you soon.