 fasting now versus then is crazy different. And it's all because we've had cutting-edge science that has taught us new ways to do it, but also our own experience and trial and error. Imagine learning that you could make one or two little tweaks to your fasting strategy, and it changes everything and makes it more effective. Sometimes you have to lead the ego at the door to embrace the changes that make something better. In today's video, we're going to cover the things that have changed in the last five, six years and how we look at fasting different and what that means for the practical changes now and how you can apply these changes right smack dab today. So before I jump right into it, I popped the link down below for 54% off creatine. They've been a partner on this channel for a very long time. They sweeten their creatine gummies with allulose so it cancels out any of the carbohydrates, which makes it a tremendous tool for a tasty way to get that energy. Creatine is an energy-building supplement. It is not a muscle-building supplement. That extra energy lets you build muscle, lets you fight and combat potential inflammation. In my opinion, it allows you to feel like yourself again. It can even help with sleep deprivation based on some literature. So that link down below gets you 54% off the best creatine gummies that are on the market. Plus, I also put a link for their creatine stick packs if you want to go that route. Number one, so going down the list here, we used to think of fasting as predictable. That's how we looked at it. Fasting then was predictable and convenient. How can we fast every day in a way that simply allows us to restrict calories? So we do 16, 8. We do things like that that allow us to just skip breakfast and just fast every day. But now fasting looks different. We know that fasting in that way will slowly turn down your metabolism, will slowly affect your metabolic rate because you're fasting every day and you're skipping breakfast and you're missing out on the cortisol rhythms that would align with just simply eating three square meals every now and then. So by doing that, we were starting to see issues. So now we see fasting as a spike and a shock. We keep our baseline. We keep our healthy, nutritious three square meals. And occasionally we rip the carpet out from underneath it and shock the body. So the body has no choice but to go through a stressful period of its fast to adapt and create changes, create changes that make us more metabolically flexible and healthier. So that looks like fasting two or three days per week, but perhaps a little more aggressively. And every other day, just doing a simple 12 hour fast daily versus a 16 hour fast on the norm. Fasting then, we looked at it from an ancestral lens. Well, what did our ancestors do? Well, they would fast and then they would feast. And that's great if you're living like our ancestors, but I don't know a single person that's living outdoors 100% of the time. I do know some freaky deeks that do live out there for periods of time, but not all the time. We have climate control. We have cars. We're not our ancestors. And as much as it is cool to make pretend that we are living like cavemen, we have science and we have tools. A simple example is when we are fasting a lot and we need to shut down the cortisol spikes that are coming from fasting, the extra stress we're adding. Guess what we can do? We can at our beck and call have a tablespoon of honey, blunt cortisol, because yes, honey and carbohydrates in short amounts, small amounts will blunt cortisol and actually help us burn fat. We can turn that system off. So that's what I'll do after a long fast. I will actually have a couple tablespoons of honey or I'll have a little bit of potatoes because it's at my beck and call. I am not an ancestor that had to fast until I got my food. I can fast and be in control and use tools and I can break it and be in control and use tools. And I suggest you lean into that and embrace what we have available. We used to look at fasting purely as a stressor for fat loss. How do we use it for fat loss and for cell repair? And we focus on the taking away of food only. Now we view fasting as a signal, as a signal that triggers the body to change that triggers cellular and metabolic adaptations. It's not about the caloric restriction. Yes, you'll restrict calories. Yes, that has benefit. But what we're really looking at here is the effects after the fast that the fasting brought on. The up regulation of antioxidant systems in the body, the down regulation of inflammatory cytokines, the modulation of cortisol, the regulating of diurnal rhythms. Treat your fasting as a random shot in the arm, not as a form of caloric restriction, even though some nutritional zealots will tell you it's only calorie restriction. There are other benefits. And if you view it as just calorie restriction, you are limiting yourself and obsessing over calories, which in my opinion becomes a bigger problem for a disordered way of thinking if you're obsessing over calories. Eat healthy, eat nutritionally, don't focus on calories so much and then occasionally just rip food away and go back to normal. Which brings me to the next one. We used to think of it as just a simple way of skipping breakfast and cutting out 130 calories. That is not wrong. That is absolutely 100% accurate. But the focus is now a little bit more on fine tuning circadian cues, fine tuning the nervous system. Sympathetic state, parasympathetic state. If we focus just on calorie restriction, a lot of times people take it too far and they just restrict calories after they're done fasting too. And they obsess over it and it becomes a highly sympathetic nervous system state. Why do you think that people can't stick on a diet? Why do you think that people have trouble? It comes with this over fixation on calories, which no one is denying from a contained physics, not a true like open thermodynamic system. But in a closed thermodynamic system, calories do make sense. And yes, I get it. I'm not denying that. But the obsession with it is too far. Eat, nourish yourself, move, and then occasionally don't eat. It's that simple. We used to think of it as the key to cellular repair. This is how we get autophagy. This is how we get stem cells. This is we fast. I think we kind of got over that obsession. And now the way that we look at it is we look at it as giving our body the tools to be able to repair that way. So how does that look for our fasting? It means if we know that a longer fast is going to trigger more autophagy and trigger this and that, then maybe we can occasionally do a long fast, but then we focus on the repair side of it. Fasting then focus on the fasting part doing the work. When in reality, the fasting part just starts the signal. The eating part is the repair. You don't build muscle in the gym. You build muscle when you eat and when you sleep. Just like fasting is what's breaking down the tissues and doing the thing. If you never rebuild, that wouldn't be very good, would it? So you have to rely on the repair. So adequate calories, adequate nutrition, adequate minerals, proper micronutrients. I suggest now we focus more on what we eat during our eating period and let fasting just be simple. In fact, I'm even guilty of that. I used to obsess over what to do during a fast and cared less about what was happening outside of a fast. That's a little bit of a disordered mindset if you think about it now from what we know. I would rather get all my nutrients and then occasionally trust that my body can do what it needs to do in a seriously calorie deprived state. And if you think that way, I think you might find it liberates your brain a bit. This is a big one. We used to think low insulin all the time. Crush insulin. It has its benefits. Now we view it different. Now we view it as refresh insulin signaling. Let's not just crush insulin to the floor and manually try to push it down all the time. Let's just keep insulin crushed. Keep it down. Keep it down. Keep it down. No, let's crush insulin and then let's let the body learn now that the insulin signal is a little more refreshed. Let's teach our body how to use these signals properly so that it's not relying on me having to crush it down all the time, trying to have this illusion of control over my body. That's not how it works. We could occasionally fast and we can train our body to refresh that insulin signaling so it can function with insulin in harmony. Rather than trying to rip away a very important hormone and that may sound like I am a big fan of carbohydrates. I'm not. I eat carbohydrates as a signal. I treat my carbs as a signal to make me more parasympathetic when I need to be calmer because that's what carbohydrates can do. I don't need them for fuel. I need carbohydrates as a signal to tell my body quickly and abruptly. I am safe. I have fuel. You can turn off the cortisol. So that leads me to something pragmatic that you can do when you're fasting and you feel like you need to end your fast. Just like I mentioned before, it's okay to have carbohydrates. All you need is 10, 20, 30 grams to shut off the cortisol spike and then it's done. And then you go back to your normal diet. We used to use fasting for burning fat. That was how we looked at it. It was about fat oxidation, about zone two, about training the cells in the mitochondria to utilize fat for fuel. 100% so true. But now it's more about metabolic flexibility. How can we learn to use fats when it's time to use fats? And how can we learn to use carbs when it's time to use carbs? If we're using fats when we're fasting, well, we don't necessarily want to use fats all the time when we're not fasting. What about when we need to use some carbs? Does that just mean that our body is going to lose glucose tolerance? Well, to a certain degree, that can happen. And even when you look at some of the people that have gone back and forth between carnivore and not, that's one of the biggest things they've claimed. High cortisol when they're fasting too much. The inability to oxidize glucose very well when they were doing too much fasting. Those are the real things that teach us, okay, fasting works, but we need to use it as a tool and a signal to train our body to be metabolically flexible. So what does my fasting strategy look like now? And I talked about this in another video. I keep it simple. Seven days a week, I do a minimum 12-hour fast. Without fail, 7 to 7, that's going to be the way that it is. At least maybe 6 to 6, maybe 8 to 8, but usually 7 to 7, 12-hour minimum. Then two days per week, I do longer, like 20-hour fasts. One day a week, I'll skip breakfast, and then one day a week, I skip dinner. It's that simple. And if I really need to add a little extra punch, I'll add an extra day. My fast-breaking meal looks something like this now. It's more of like a half to one cup of mashed potatoes that is like just plain potatoes. No fats added to it. Usually red potatoes or occasionally rice with a tablespoon or two tablespoons of honey with about 8 ounces of chicken and bone broth mixed into the rice and honey or into the potatoes and honey. That is simple and very easy. And it makes it consistent to where I'm not afraid to have the carbs post-fast. But then after that, carbs aren't really in the equation that much, unless it's a little bit in the evening time. Now, if you want to see me do a video on more of what I eat in a day here in 2026, I'm happy to do that. Just put it down below in the comment section. But I also did a video right here that talks about theanine and how theanine is one of the more powerful cortisol reducing compounds that's out there. And it's dirt cheap. So you want to check that video out on how to strategically use it. As always, I'll see you tomorrow.