

=== FILE: 2g in your Morning Coffee Melts Fat and Stops Appetite Instantly [HITaOAgc7vY].txt ===

 it feels like metabolism science is 20 years behind, but at the same time, it also feels like we're ignoring ancient evidence that's been right in our face for centuries, because I know you feel no matter how clean you eat, no matter how much protein you eat, your fat loss isn't budging, your labs are creeping up, your energy feels flat, that is flat out the metabolic trap, and that's what happens. I mean, it happens to people that are dealing with metabolic dysfunction and also just happens with people that are aging, but a lot of times this metabolic trap ends up being the early warning signs of fatty liver, of visceral fat, and of course insulin resistance that can lead to all kinds of different things. So sometimes these things are actually happening before we even show signs of them or before we even have lab work that would prove it to a doctor or prove it to ourselves. Now the crazy thing is, what if I told you that there was a tiny seed that's literally been used for centuries that can unlock the metabolic breaks based on newer science? Now this channel is about hard-rooted science, but I don't ignore the old data that we have from history, right? I'm talking about black human seed oil, but a lot of people have talked about this, and sometimes they get thrown under the bus. It's ancient, but the science is real, and what we're finding out about its active compound thymoquinum is super wild. It's not hype, it's legit molecular change. Before you go out and buy a bottle of this stuff, I also want to share when you shouldn't use it, because there are times when you really should not, and that's because the timing and the context really matter. This is a powerful compound, it actually really does work, but if you want the metabolic benefits, you need to use it correctly. So here's what we're covering today, and I want you to stick with me because each thing that I talk about sort of builds on the last, and we're going to talk about how to use it in each context. So first we're going to talk about how black human seed oil stabilizes blood sugar, okay, so how it works in that way and how you can use it properly. Secondly, we're going to talk about how it can actually boost male fertility and have an effect on male hormones, which is wild. Then we're going to talk about how it can affect fat loss and appetite control, specifically when we're talking about visceral fat. Then we're going to talk about the insane antioxidant power behind the active ingredient, which is thymoquinone, and what that does to your mitochondria and overall inflammatory markers in your body. And then lastly, we're going to talk about how it can actually lower cholesterol and protect the liver. So it's pretty wild, and in that section we're going to talk about when you may not want to use it and how you would want to combine it with certain diets or possibly even medications. So then at the end, I'm going to give you super simple actionable takeaways and exactly how to use it. So before we jump into it, I put a link down below for some other minerals that are important just for everyday life, like sodium, potassium and magnesium, and you can find those in element. So that is a link for a free sample variety pack of element electrolytes with any purchase. So you can get their chocolate salt flavor, you can get their lemon lime, you can get their regular lemonade flavor, all this stuff is amazing, and they have ready to drink sparkling cans as well. So the stuff is epic, and it's getting you pretty much a zero calorie or five calorie way to get your minerals in curb your appetite and just have something that tastes good. So that link is down below. This stuff has been such a game changer for me for the years, like when it comes down to just being able to like go through the day without feeling like I need to munch on stuff all the time. Plus, my brain feels sharper because salt is so critical for that neurological function for these neuronal signaling. So that link is down below. So black human seed oil has been used for centuries really in traditional medicine, but it's now starting to gain a little bit more modern attention, mainly just as a strong antioxidant anti inflammatory, but the main compound here is what we want to talk about. It's called thymoquinone. And the research is starting to show that this legit helps with inflammatory conditions, helps with insulin resistance, and there's even some cool effects on mental health as well. So black human seed oil helps your body regulate glucose, both short term and long term. That's what's kind of cool about it. There was a study published in oxidative medicine and cellular longevity. So in the short term, when they gave this to rats, like hear me out on it, there's human data in a second, it ended up lowering their fasting blood glucose and it ended up improving their insulin response. So they were actually able to produce more insulin, which sounds bad, but they were able to produce it in response. There was less insulin resistance kind of at a pancreatic level, but the human data shows this too. There was a PLOS one study is a clinical trial, and it was one that followed type two diabetic patients for a year. Okay, so they took either placebo or two grams per day of black human seed oil along with their medication. After 12 months like this for a whole year, the black seed oil group dropped fasting glucose by 12%. They dropped their HBA one C by 5%. And they improved their beta cell function while the placebo group actually got worse. So the whole idea behind the beta cell function getting better, that's huge, because that tells us that the pancreas is functioning better. That's why it produced more insulin properly. Black human seed oil reduces the oxidative stress at a pancreatic level. This is allowing the beta cells to regenerate and function better. So it's also slowing the glucose absorption in the gut. So you're having less carbohydrates and better insulin response. And then there was a study that was published in the Journal of Ethnopharmacology. It found that black seed oil inhibited what's called sodium dependent glucose transport in intestinal tissue. It was essentially mimicking metformin. This is tremendously huge. In fact, when they compared black seed oil head to head against metformin with glucose tolerance, it was just as effective as the metformin. So let's talk about some practical use in this particular case. If you're looking to improve glycemic control, you'd want to take one to two grams per day. Don't go above that. And you'd want to do it with breakfast or just your first meal. You want to avoid pairing it with medications that are going to be hypoglycemic that are going to try to like bring your glucose down. You may want to talk with your doctor about that first just because it is potent. So test out with like one gram, then maybe bump it up to two grams and see how you feel because it is effective. This next one surprises a lot of people. Okay, there was a phytonedic medicine study on 80 infertile men and it found that five milliliters daily of black human seed oil for three months increased their sperm count by 28% and it increased their sperm motility by 9% while the placebo group, as usual, declined. So mechanistically is what's important here. It's all about antioxidant protection. Okay, so sperm cells are super rich and unsaturated fat and make some very vulnerable to oxidative stress. They get oxidized easily. So free radicals will damage that membrane and then fertility drops super fast. So the studies are showing that infertile men have lower antioxidant capacity and higher oxidative stress. So this phymoquinone that's in the black seed oil neutralizes the reactive oxygen species and actually protects the sperm DNA from oxidative damage. So for this particular case for like male hormones and male like sperm health, two and a half milliliters, maybe two times per day for about 90 days. And if you're already on like any kind of hormone therapy or any serums, you might want to be careful here do a little bit more research on it. Because again, they can't interfere. The stuff is potent. Now let's talk fat loss though, because that's where most of us lean in with this stuff. Okay, there was a food and function study. It was a trial that gave obese people a low calorie diet plus three grams of black seed oil daily for eight weeks. Okay, what they found they lost significantly more weight. And they ended up having a significant reduction in their waste or cup brents. But they also had improvements in their LDL and triglycerides compared to placebo. We're talking like metabolic overhaul. And then there was another study, it was in complementary therapies and medicine. This one showed a 44% drop in hunger and a 19% increase in satiety, just two hours after meals. So it changed the entire way the body responded to food. And mechanistically, the way that this was working is it seems to suppress appetite by reducing intestinal glucose absorption. So it was activating AMPK, the same pathway that is triggered by fasting and exercise, because it's very, very similar. So if you're looking to use it for a little bit more of like an appetite control kind of thing, you want to take one gram before each meal. Okay, so that would be three grams total per day with a mild caloric deficit. I don't recommend that you combine it with a bunch of stimulants or harsh fat burners, because this works through more of regulation versus overstimulation. So it's helping regulate the system, not by overstimulating it. So you don't want to take it if you're already like cranking up the caffeine or cranking up the fat burners. In fact, it's a great time to cycle off the fat burners and use the black seed oil. So you're activating a different pathway and then cycle off of it. Now let's move to the cellular protection side, because this is where black human seed oil really shines. So thymoquinoin is an activator of NRF2. This is a gene that triggers your body's own antioxidant system. One of the most important things you can do, forget external antioxidants, you want your body's own antioxidant defense system to work. So there is a helion study that looked at rats in this case, and it pretreated them with thymoquinoin before they had a heart attack. Okay, this is wild. So the results, they had a massive increase in glutathione, as well as superoxide dismutase, catalase, and other antioxidants. And they had preservation of the mitochondrial DNA. So they had less inflammation, less oxidative damage, and less cell death, even under legit serious stress like a heart attack. If you're dealing with metabolic dysfunction, and there's a good chance you are, mitochondrial support is huge, because this is when mitochondria fail. When that happens, fat oxidation tanks and visceral fat accumulates, it's a very delicate system. So if this is the case, you may even want to look at like a standardized oil extract of pure thymoquinoin. So 200 to 400 milligrams of thymoquinoin. You can also rotate it with other NRF2 activators. So things like sulpheraphane instead of taking it daily, because you do build up a sensitivity to it or tolerance to it. So you want to maintain your sensitivity. So I would rotate with things like sulpheraphane instead of stacking it daily in this case. And it could preserve the intensity of it. But where it gets really interesting is with the liver health. This is fascinating stuff. There was a study in the Journal of Family and Community Medicine, and it was a trial on type two diabetics. And it tested them at one, two and three grams per day of black seed oil. After 12 weeks, the two and three gram groups had major reductions in total cholesterol. Their LDL went down, their triglycerides went down, and they had an increase in their HDL to LDL ratio. And I don't care where you stand on that whole process and that whole system, when you have an increase in HDL, it's a good thing, period. And mechanistically, black human seed oil is really high in specific kinds of little aegacin. So normally, I'm not a huge fan of high amounts of polyunsaturated fat, but in this case, it seemed to protect the liver and actually helped convert into ketone bodies instead of triglycerides. So that shift ended up offloading fat from the liver. This is really important if you're dealing with fatty liver disease. So it ended up taking some of the stress off the liver there. So if you're looking for more cholesterol, lowering effect and liver protection effect, one to three grams daily with your main meal. But if you're on like statins, you may want to talk to your doctor because it can actually enhance the lipid lowering. And you just, you may need to make sure you may need to actually adjust the dose. It's that powerful. So again, I can't overemphasize like this stuff is powerful, I can really enhance like lipid lowering effects that need to be aware of. But let's talk about when not to use it. So if you're already on really strong things that modulate blood glucose, like maybe even metformin, you could actually drive your blood sugar really low. So that's the kind of time you don't want to use it. You also don't want to use it right around a workout because your glucose could drop quite a bit. It's powerful. You want to keep it with the meals and not right around your workout. Another thing is there's not a lot of evidence if you're pregnant or if you're breastfeeding. So you may want to just skip it all together because the data is just super limited there. But otherwise it's very safe, it's well tolerated, and it's a powerful metabolic tool when you use it strategically. And again, the most important thing is you need to cycle on and off of it. Do not take it all the time. I remember when I was first given it by my doctor, my doctor's cool and he gave it to me, I was dealing with some immune system stuff and he made it very clear. He's like, Hey, one month on and then go off of it. But just to recap with black cumin seed oil, okay, you're balancing your blood sugar by regenerating the beta cells and you're slowing intestinal glucose uptake. So you have less sugar coming in, you're protecting your sperm, you're improving fertility, you're helping out those antioxidant defenses. This works for women too, as far as like hormone protection, it helps with weight loss, it reduces visceral fat, it suppresses the appetite and it improves your insulin sensitivity. And then the big one we covered is boost your cellular resistance. So you're increasing that nrf2 activation and getting that mitochondrial protection. And then lastly, it lowers your cholesterol and it supports the entire like liver fat metabolism. So you have less risk of a fatty liver. But like any metabolic tool, it is totally about context and timing. So we're talking usually one to three grams, or if you want more specific extracts, like two to 400 milligrams of the thymoquine. Now I put a video here that talks about another great tool called TMG that you can use if you're dealing with insulin resistance. It's a very potent compound that's in beats. Yes, our food has this stuff. So that video is right there, check it out. And as always, keep it locked in here, my channel, I'll see you tomorrow.

=== FILE: 420mg Drops Cortisol and Relaxes the Nervous System (in one dose) [3z6P3oZutu0].txt ===

 no joke, literally one out of two people in the U.S. don't even meet the basic magnesium requirements. That's not just a top-of-the-head guess that comes from a paper that was published in the journal Nutrients. And what's really interesting about that number is how rarely it shows up as something obvious. So most people aren't kind of walking around thinking that they're deficient to anything, but what they notice instead are these subtle patterns that show up over and over again. For example, like sleep that isn't as restorative as it used to be, or stress that feels really hard to shake, like you're constantly in this state of stress, muscles that are tight, maybe you feel like you have an injury because they're staying tighter longer than they should, or you have energy that drops off earlier in the day and you chalk it up to just be an older. The thing is that none of those point really clearly to magnesium on their own, but when they start stacking together, they usually aren't that random, and it does make sense. So this isn't a rare problem, it's just a quiet one that doesn't really get recognized until it's really late. So what makes it even trickier is that you can't always trust state or blood work to catch magnesium deficiencies. I explain why in a second, but the reality is that magnesium deficiency just doesn't show up as one obvious problem. It shows up as a cascade. You have one system that compensates and then another starts to strain and over time completely different symptoms pop up that all trace back to the same upstream issue. If you had to just caught it early on, you wouldn't have had this like just cascade of different things. So in this video, I'm going to walk you through that entire cascade. So first we'll cover why magnesium deficiency is so easy to miss. Then we're going to talk about how it hits different parts of the body and what to actually look for. And then once that is clear, we're going to talk about how to actually fix it simply and consistently, but I'm also going to share a few really bizarre, but very clear signs that you're magnesium deficient. So stick around for those as well. But the science needs to be laid out first so it makes sense. So let's kind of start with the blind spot because this is where a lot of people get confused before I get into a lot of detail with magnesium specifically, I put a link down below for something that might help your kiddos. This is called hya multivitamins. It is a monk fruit sweetened multivitamin. That's like a chewable vitamin that's fun for kids. And it's a real thing. I mean, it's something that kids don't always eat the way that we want them to eat. And that's just the bottom line. So that link down below gets you 50% off from hya kids multivitamin with no hidden gunk in it. It's just good, easy, fun stuff. That's a fun ritual for the kids that gets them the vitamins and minerals that they might miss out when they are eating grapes and ketchup. So that link is down below in the top line of the description. So only about 1% of the magnesium in our actual body is in our bloodstream. That's the hard part. The rest of the magnesium lives inside our cells, inside our muscles, inside our bones, and your body works really, really hard to keep your blood magnesium levels stable, especially to ultimately like protect your heart, right? So when intake starts to drop, the body doesn't panic, it just borrows magnesium from tissues to keep your blood levels looking normal. That's why a standard serum magnesium test can come back totally fine, even when cells are really depleted. So that's just like the very tip of the iceberg. And the paper that was published in nutrients explains that red blood cells or what's called our RBC magnesium often reflects our body magnesium status better than serum levels. Okay, so you want to get a test for red blood cell magnesium, this reflects what's actually happening inside the cells, not just the proxy and the blood, right? So what that can really mean is that your labs can look totally normal, all your body is kind of running on its reserve status, right? So once those reserves start getting pulled, then the cascade really begins. So the first system that feels that isn't your muscles, it's your nervous system. Magnesium plays a really important role in activating parasympathetic tone. So making our fight or flight, putting us in that kind of calmer state versus that fire flight. So it's the part that's really responsible for calming you down. Magnesium is also really important for regulating neurotransmitters. So it binds to GABA, gamma immunobuteroic acid receptors. And this is really important because GABA is essentially your brain's brake pedal. If GABA is influenced, it quiets that neural activity in the brain, and it allows the brain to shut off. When magnesium is low, GABA signaling drops, and the brain gets stuck in the on position. That's when sleep gets shallow. That's when thoughts are racing at night. That's when stress is feeling super loud, right? It's just, that's the problem. Now there's a cortisol piece here as well. Because there was a study that was in the Journal of Neuropharmacology. And this one showed that magnesium deficiency increases cortisol production in the brain. And it does this by activating what's called the paravirinricular hypothalamic nucleus. This is a region that specifically controls the stress response in the brain. So now you've got less calming input and more stress signaling. And what that looks like in real life is like, you don't bounce back from stress the way that you used to, right? Little things feel bigger. Your resilience is worse. Your nervous system is losing its ability to buffer. And once the nervous system can't relax, muscles are kind of next, right? So magnesium directly regulates how minerals move in and out of muscle cells. So it helps control what's called ion transport. And this happens at a cell membrane. So calcium triggers a muscle to contract, and magnesium allows the muscle to relax. And when magnesium runs low, calcium dominates. So that means that muscles tighten up. They don't fully let go. And that's where cramps will show up. So you end up with tight calves, maybe you have foot cramps, restlessness, it shows up like that too. You just want to kind of move. And the same mechanism applies to smooth muscle too. So this means the muscles that are in your digestive tract that you don't really think of. And when those muscles stay tense, movement slows down. And that's why constipation often shows up alongside muscle tightness. It's not like just a separate issue. So now we've gone from the nervous system to skeletal muscle to digestion, but this cascade keeps moving. That's where it can get frustrating. Okay, because as intracellular magnesium starts to drop, electrolytes and energy production start to slip. So low magnesium, it removes this inhibition on a ROMK channels in the kidneys. Now what that means is in the kidneys, you have ROMK, which stands for renal outer medullary potassium channels. These recycle potassium. So that increases potassium excretion. So even if your potassium intake looks fine, your body can still end up functionally low. And that is why muscle weakness shows up. It's not just cramps. It's actually poor activation. Okay, muscles don't fire the way that they should. And it's funny because it's a potassium issue, but it's rooted from magnesium because at the same time, magnesium is required for the energy itself, right? For ATP for adenosine triphosphate, this only works when it's bound to magnesium. So what we call ATP, like our energy currency, believe it or not, it's actually magnesium ATP, mag ATP. Without magnesium, energy production becomes inefficient. You're generating energy, but you're not feeling the payoff. And that's when fatigue sets in. You have low drive, you have low output, especially noticeable when energy demand goes up, right? So if you're more stressed, if you have more activity or increase what's called gluconeogenesis because you're doing a lower carb diet, these things demand more stress on the body. And that alone can cause more depletion. This is a lot of times where people would blame calories or maybe they'd blame carbs or lack of carbs or motivation, but the bottleneck isn't usually fuel. A lot of us are getting enough fuel. It's the fact that the mineral that allows fuel to become usable energy is not in good supply. So as this continues, the vascular system starts to feel it too. So magnesium plays a huge role in producing nitric oxide and what's called prostacycline. This is really critical for our blood vessels to relax. So nitric oxide allows vessels to dilate. Prostacycline reduces platelet activation and it supports the smooth blood flow, right? So it's just like, if you don't have that, you're going to have this tense vascular system. There was a review in the Journal of Clinical Hypertension found that magnesium intake between 500 and 1,000 milligrams per day markedly reduced blood pressure by 5.6 over 2.8 millimeters of mercury. So that was a pretty significant amount just to see happen with magnesium alone, right? So for context, the NIH recommends 420 milligrams per day for men and about 320 milligrams per day for women. Okay, so now you can see the difference between minimum intake and therapeutic intake in certain situations. I think a lot of us are taking too little. And then finally, when all this compensation has been happening for long enough, basically all this stuff going on in your body, then it hits the end, which is bones. Okay, then the bones become the buffer. Magnesium is required to activate vitamin D. The bones become the buffer. Now in a second, I'm going to talk about some other really interesting things that happen, like weird things that are kind of quirky that you've probably noticed before that are telltale signs of a magnesium deficiency. Well, let's talk about the bones for just a second first. Okay, magnesium is required to activate vitamin D. Every enzyme involved in vitamin D metabolism requires magnesium. It also stimulates calcitonin, which helps move calcium out of the bloodstream and into the bone. And this is required for what's called alkaline phosphatase, which is an enzyme informing like it's used for forming healthy bone structure. So it's literally imperative. And when magnesium is low, calcium doesn't end up where it belongs. So over time, that shows up as weak joints or fractures, osteoporosis risk, like poor bone integrity in general. And by the time bones are affected, the deficiency has usually been there for such a long while that there's all these other catastrophic issues. So if we recap where we're at so far, we can see that low magnesium intake is super common. This is not a freak thing. Okay, we can see that blood tests often miss it because the body protects these serum levels, right? It keeps magnesium going into the bloodstream. The nervous system loses its brakes first, then the muscles tighten, then the energy production weakens, then the electrolytes leak, like the potassium, the blood pressure rises, and then the bones paid a long term price. But before we talk about how to actually fix it, there's another important layer to understand because when people hear magnesium, they usually think it's just one thing, but it's not. Okay, magnesium always comes paired with something else and that pairing changes how it behaves in the body. It's not magic. It's just a practical biochemical way that things work. Before we get into that, though, I want to talk about these bizarre things that I mentioned. Okay, so there's some bizarre signs of magnesium deficiency that aren't really obvious, but they're very clear, like a buzzing or vibrating sensation under the skin. Almost you felt like your phone is vibrating and you check your phone, but it's actually just like your skin vibrating. This is hyper excitable peripheral nerves, and this happens when magnesium is low. It's the same reason your eye will twitch. You ever notice you just get a weird eye twitch? This is a very pivotal thing. When the eye starts to twitch, it's a very clear sign, right? Another one is almost this random jaw tightness, right? Where you feel like you're clenching your jaw and you don't even really understand why. This is not necessarily stress, although it can definitely be caused by stress. It's more of a neuromuscular calcium regulation that is getting messed up. It's getting jacked up without magnesium. So you're like feeling tight in the jaw all the time. Another wild one is like a sudden intolerance to loud noises. All of a sudden you're like, why do things feel louder? Magnesium modulates what are called NMDA receptors, right? So when we're deficient in magnesium, the NMDA receptors aren't modulated, so it heightens sensory gain. So we can actually just be overstimulated, right? We can actually feel like, why are things bothering me? Why are there's a loud crowd of people bothering you when normally it doesn't? You feel like your social battery is lower. This is really real. And then another one, heart palpitations that disappear when you're lying down, right? So magnesium affects cardiac ion channels just like it affects the muscle. So deficiency exaggerates these ectopic beats, which makes it so when we lay down, they're not under as much pressure. So they actually go away when we're not having to stress the heart as much. But now let's talk about the types of magnesium, because this is super important. Okay. I want to talk about what each one does and really like when to use each particular one. So that way this will all make sense. First, let's talk magnesium chloride, magnesium chloride is highly soluble, and it's fully ionized across a very wide pH range from the acidity of the stomach all over the pH and body fluids. So that means that magnesium chloride breaks down really easily into like usable magnesium ions. One of the reasons it's often discussed is because chloride itself plays a role in producing stomach acid. So as we age, hydrochloric acid production tends to decline. And often without anybody realizing it. So magnesium chloride doesn't just provide magnesium, it can also support digestion, mineral absorption, but it has some issues with it. It can be a little bit hard on the stomach. And if you start taking too much of it, you definitely end up with a little bit of diarrhea, right? So it's not something you want to take all the time. But if you need to get levels up a little bit quicker, it could work. Next up is magnesium oxide. Now this one contains a higher percentage of elemental magnesium. So it sounds good on paper, but it's non-kelated and it absorbs really poorly. Okay. So there are a lot of studies that show that absorption rates are really low, like 4% low, like super low. And it's commonly used as a laxative rather than a replacement tool. As a matter of fact, you can actually do the opposite by taking it because it causes you to lose more minerals through the toilet, right? So even though the label number looks high, very little actually makes it into circulation. And then we have magnesium citrate. Now magnesium citrate is magnesium that's bound to citric acid, which is known for one main reason. It pulls water into the intestines. So again, this is good for the smooth muscle in the intestine, but that osmotic effect softens the stool. So it's really good. And if you're trying to like get a bowel movement, but it might not be what you're looking for to actually get your magnesium levels up higher. Then we have magnesium glycinate. It's very different. Right here, magnesium is bound to glycine, which is a very calming amino acid. Glycine itself supports relaxation. Okay. It also lowers core body temperature and acts as a neurotransmitter and reduces the nervous system activity to begin with. So this pairing is why magnesium glycinate is probably one of the more common ones associated with stress and getting to sleep better. Okay. So for sleep support, nothing beats mag glycinate period. It's also a chelated form. Okay. This means that it's more resistant to stomach acid and it tends to absorb a little bit better. Okay. You're going to get a pretty decent absorption rate without the laxative effect. So for people whose cascade kind of starts with sleep disruption or maybe the nervous system overload, this is the form for you. And you want to go like three to 400 milligrams of this stuff. Then we have magnesium maleate, which pairs magnesium with maleic acid. This is a very specific one because maleic acid plays a direct role in cellular energy production. So it's involved in transporting nutrients into the mitochondria and supporting that whole ATP generation part we talked about. So even under low oxygen or high demand conditions, it could help because ATP must be bound to magnesium to actually be active. This pairing supports energy efficiency. Okay. This is the best for like energy production and it does this from two angles. Okay. It's why maleate is often discussed in the context of fatigue or muscle weakness. Okay. Cause it really like maleate actually has a benefit here. Then we have magnesium sulfate. Okay. This is also known as Epsom salt. Okay. This is familiar to most people because I'll take an Epsom salt bath, which can absorb and it can actually calm the joints a little bit when it's dissolved in water. It releases magnesium and sulfate ions. So despite common claims, there's not a lot of strong evidence that magnesium can really like absorb the way that you want it to to raise your blood or your cell levels in any meaningful amounts, but it might help calm like the joints of the joints are hernia, right? Now orally, magnesium sulfate can absorb pretty quickly, which is why it's probably one of the quickest ways to get yourself seat belted to the toilet. So I would be careful there. Then there's one that's called magnesium orotate, which combines magnesium with erotic acid. Now, erotic acid supports ATP regeneration by increasing basically energy through the ribosome pathways called ribose five phosphate and it spares ATP during a nucleotide production. So it's basically helping preserve energy and helping you have a little bit more of a booster and high metabolic demand. So it's really good for people that are like metabolically damaged or dealing with insulin resistance. In fact, this form has been studied in the context of performance and energy metabolism, like when the body is very, very stressed out. So it's good if you're like really low in magnesium and very unhealthy, like you're really trying to get your body back on track. One of my personal favorites is magnesium three and eight. This one is unique because getting magnesium into the brain is really difficult because of the blood brain barrier. Now three and eight was specifically developed across that barrier more efficiently. And there's research that shows that increasing magnesium in brain tissue improves the synaptic density and plasticity, especially in areas involved in memory and executive function. So basically you can make yourself have a better memory and better brain function. So this form is really discussed a lot in relation to cognition and brain health and ultimately even just the nervous system because it all starts here. And then finally we have magnesium torate. And this is pairing magnesium with torene, which is an amino acid that calms the nervous system and supports GABA activity similar to glycine. So torene also plays a role in reducing oxidative stress and modulating inflammation. I've done a lots of videos on torene. So it's very fascinating there. So because of that magnesium torate is often associated with nervous system balance and even just recovery and cardiovascular support. So if you really step back, like the takeaway isn't that one form is universally better. I mean, I wouldn't go juzzling a bunch of sulfate, but it's that each form kind of nudges magnesium toward a slightly different role, either digestion or relaxation or energy, cognition, muscle function, just general metabolic health. And once you understand that the final step becomes a lot more straightforward. So let's talk about how do you can fix this practically there because consistency matters way more than just like one high dose. Magnesium works at a cellular level and it takes time to replete. It's water soluble. So when you take it in, a lot of it's going to come right out. Okay. So daily intake matters much more than an occasional high dose unless you need a high dose because of a specific like depletion issue, like after a hard workout or a lot of sweating. Secondly, you need to understand the dose ranges. The NIH recommended daily allowance again, it's 420 milligrams for men and 320 milligrams for women. Okay. The research that's in blood pressure shows that intakes up to a thousand milligrams per day have been used completely safe in very specific contexts. It doesn't mean that everyone needs to go taking that much, but it means that magnesium requirements aren't really one size fits all. Like if the more depleted you are, the more you could take. And then thirdly, timing and form can be simple. Okay. You have to find what works for you. People respond to different things. If sleep or stress is your main issue, forms like magnesium, glycinate or torate are going to be much better for you and using them in the evening is going to be the best because they're calming allocations. If you're someone that's more prone to constipation, you may want to use little bits of citrate or a little bit of, you know, even some of these other forms, right? Like even oxide could work in a small amount because it will draw water into the intestinal area. Magnesium maylate can actually work for this too. But really if energy is your main bottleneck, then magma elate pairs really well by working magnesium with maleic acid. So this is going to help you with that ATP production. And then again, for cognitive support, magnesium three and eight because it can cross the blood brain barrier. Now I mentioned how magnesium works with all kinds of things. For example, calcium, like calcium and magnesium are very tightly linked that calcium drives contraction, it drives signaling and activation, whereas magnesium does the opposite helps bring things back down. It causes the relaxation, the balance, the control, right? So if magnesium has been missing, calcium often ends up behaving very differently. And I broke this down in another video how calcium can influence appetite, how it can help energy production, metabolic signaling in a way that most people don't expect and why it might even get demonized in a certain way. Okay, it might actually be the best mineral for fat loss. So if the magnesium piece clicked for you and you want to learn more about how calcium can work specifically through diet for fat loss, I put a video right here, you can click on that and check that out. I highly recommend you watch that it's a really interesting topic that can teach you a lot and give you some takeaways you could use today. So I'll see you tomorrow.

=== FILE: How Fasting Science has Changed in the Past 5 Years (no more 16_8) [eNAQVDowSuw].txt ===

 fasting now versus then is crazy different. And it's all because we've had cutting-edge science that has taught us new ways to do it, but also our own experience and trial and error. Imagine learning that you could make one or two little tweaks to your fasting strategy, and it changes everything and makes it more effective. Sometimes you have to lead the ego at the door to embrace the changes that make something better. In today's video, we're going to cover the things that have changed in the last five, six years and how we look at fasting different and what that means for the practical changes now and how you can apply these changes right smack dab today. So before I jump right into it, I popped the link down below for 54% off creatine. They've been a partner on this channel for a very long time. They sweeten their creatine gummies with allulose so it cancels out any of the carbohydrates, which makes it a tremendous tool for a tasty way to get that energy. Creatine is an energy-building supplement. It is not a muscle-building supplement. That extra energy lets you build muscle, lets you fight and combat potential inflammation. In my opinion, it allows you to feel like yourself again. It can even help with sleep deprivation based on some literature. So that link down below gets you 54% off the best creatine gummies that are on the market. Plus, I also put a link for their creatine stick packs if you want to go that route. Number one, so going down the list here, we used to think of fasting as predictable. That's how we looked at it. Fasting then was predictable and convenient. How can we fast every day in a way that simply allows us to restrict calories? So we do 16, 8. We do things like that that allow us to just skip breakfast and just fast every day. But now fasting looks different. We know that fasting in that way will slowly turn down your metabolism, will slowly affect your metabolic rate because you're fasting every day and you're skipping breakfast and you're missing out on the cortisol rhythms that would align with just simply eating three square meals every now and then. So by doing that, we were starting to see issues. So now we see fasting as a spike and a shock. We keep our baseline. We keep our healthy, nutritious three square meals. And occasionally we rip the carpet out from underneath it and shock the body. So the body has no choice but to go through a stressful period of its fast to adapt and create changes, create changes that make us more metabolically flexible and healthier. So that looks like fasting two or three days per week, but perhaps a little more aggressively. And every other day, just doing a simple 12 hour fast daily versus a 16 hour fast on the norm. Fasting then, we looked at it from an ancestral lens. Well, what did our ancestors do? Well, they would fast and then they would feast. And that's great if you're living like our ancestors, but I don't know a single person that's living outdoors 100% of the time. I do know some freaky deeks that do live out there for periods of time, but not all the time. We have climate control. We have cars. We're not our ancestors. And as much as it is cool to make pretend that we are living like cavemen, we have science and we have tools. A simple example is when we are fasting a lot and we need to shut down the cortisol spikes that are coming from fasting, the extra stress we're adding. Guess what we can do? We can at our beck and call have a tablespoon of honey, blunt cortisol, because yes, honey and carbohydrates in short amounts, small amounts will blunt cortisol and actually help us burn fat. We can turn that system off. So that's what I'll do after a long fast. I will actually have a couple tablespoons of honey or I'll have a little bit of potatoes because it's at my beck and call. I am not an ancestor that had to fast until I got my food. I can fast and be in control and use tools and I can break it and be in control and use tools. And I suggest you lean into that and embrace what we have available. We used to look at fasting purely as a stressor for fat loss. How do we use it for fat loss and for cell repair? And we focus on the taking away of food only. Now we view fasting as a signal, as a signal that triggers the body to change that triggers cellular and metabolic adaptations. It's not about the caloric restriction. Yes, you'll restrict calories. Yes, that has benefit. But what we're really looking at here is the effects after the fast that the fasting brought on. The up regulation of antioxidant systems in the body, the down regulation of inflammatory cytokines, the modulation of cortisol, the regulating of diurnal rhythms. Treat your fasting as a random shot in the arm, not as a form of caloric restriction, even though some nutritional zealots will tell you it's only calorie restriction. There are other benefits. And if you view it as just calorie restriction, you are limiting yourself and obsessing over calories, which in my opinion becomes a bigger problem for a disordered way of thinking if you're obsessing over calories. Eat healthy, eat nutritionally, don't focus on calories so much and then occasionally just rip food away and go back to normal. Which brings me to the next one. We used to think of it as just a simple way of skipping breakfast and cutting out 130 calories. That is not wrong. That is absolutely 100% accurate. But the focus is now a little bit more on fine tuning circadian cues, fine tuning the nervous system. Sympathetic state, parasympathetic state. If we focus just on calorie restriction, a lot of times people take it too far and they just restrict calories after they're done fasting too. And they obsess over it and it becomes a highly sympathetic nervous system state. Why do you think that people can't stick on a diet? Why do you think that people have trouble? It comes with this over fixation on calories, which no one is denying from a contained physics, not a true like open thermodynamic system. But in a closed thermodynamic system, calories do make sense. And yes, I get it. I'm not denying that. But the obsession with it is too far. Eat, nourish yourself, move, and then occasionally don't eat. It's that simple. We used to think of it as the key to cellular repair. This is how we get autophagy. This is how we get stem cells. This is we fast. I think we kind of got over that obsession. And now the way that we look at it is we look at it as giving our body the tools to be able to repair that way. So how does that look for our fasting? It means if we know that a longer fast is going to trigger more autophagy and trigger this and that, then maybe we can occasionally do a long fast, but then we focus on the repair side of it. Fasting then focus on the fasting part doing the work. When in reality, the fasting part just starts the signal. The eating part is the repair. You don't build muscle in the gym. You build muscle when you eat and when you sleep. Just like fasting is what's breaking down the tissues and doing the thing. If you never rebuild, that wouldn't be very good, would it? So you have to rely on the repair. So adequate calories, adequate nutrition, adequate minerals, proper micronutrients. I suggest now we focus more on what we eat during our eating period and let fasting just be simple. In fact, I'm even guilty of that. I used to obsess over what to do during a fast and cared less about what was happening outside of a fast. That's a little bit of a disordered mindset if you think about it now from what we know. I would rather get all my nutrients and then occasionally trust that my body can do what it needs to do in a seriously calorie deprived state. And if you think that way, I think you might find it liberates your brain a bit. This is a big one. We used to think low insulin all the time. Crush insulin. It has its benefits. Now we view it different. Now we view it as refresh insulin signaling. Let's not just crush insulin to the floor and manually try to push it down all the time. Let's just keep insulin crushed. Keep it down. Keep it down. Keep it down. No, let's crush insulin and then let's let the body learn now that the insulin signal is a little more refreshed. Let's teach our body how to use these signals properly so that it's not relying on me having to crush it down all the time, trying to have this illusion of control over my body. That's not how it works. We could occasionally fast and we can train our body to refresh that insulin signaling so it can function with insulin in harmony. Rather than trying to rip away a very important hormone and that may sound like I am a big fan of carbohydrates. I'm not. I eat carbohydrates as a signal. I treat my carbs as a signal to make me more parasympathetic when I need to be calmer because that's what carbohydrates can do. I don't need them for fuel. I need carbohydrates as a signal to tell my body quickly and abruptly. I am safe. I have fuel. You can turn off the cortisol. So that leads me to something pragmatic that you can do when you're fasting and you feel like you need to end your fast. Just like I mentioned before, it's okay to have carbohydrates. All you need is 10, 20, 30 grams to shut off the cortisol spike and then it's done. And then you go back to your normal diet. We used to use fasting for burning fat. That was how we looked at it. It was about fat oxidation, about zone two, about training the cells in the mitochondria to utilize fat for fuel. 100% so true. But now it's more about metabolic flexibility. How can we learn to use fats when it's time to use fats? And how can we learn to use carbs when it's time to use carbs? If we're using fats when we're fasting, well, we don't necessarily want to use fats all the time when we're not fasting. What about when we need to use some carbs? Does that just mean that our body is going to lose glucose tolerance? Well, to a certain degree, that can happen. And even when you look at some of the people that have gone back and forth between carnivore and not, that's one of the biggest things they've claimed. High cortisol when they're fasting too much. The inability to oxidize glucose very well when they were doing too much fasting. Those are the real things that teach us, okay, fasting works, but we need to use it as a tool and a signal to train our body to be metabolically flexible. So what does my fasting strategy look like now? And I talked about this in another video. I keep it simple. Seven days a week, I do a minimum 12-hour fast. Without fail, 7 to 7, that's going to be the way that it is. At least maybe 6 to 6, maybe 8 to 8, but usually 7 to 7, 12-hour minimum. Then two days per week, I do longer, like 20-hour fasts. One day a week, I'll skip breakfast, and then one day a week, I skip dinner. It's that simple. And if I really need to add a little extra punch, I'll add an extra day. My fast-breaking meal looks something like this now. It's more of like a half to one cup of mashed potatoes that is like just plain potatoes. No fats added to it. Usually red potatoes or occasionally rice with a tablespoon or two tablespoons of honey with about 8 ounces of chicken and bone broth mixed into the rice and honey or into the potatoes and honey. That is simple and very easy. And it makes it consistent to where I'm not afraid to have the carbs post-fast. But then after that, carbs aren't really in the equation that much, unless it's a little bit in the evening time. Now, if you want to see me do a video on more of what I eat in a day here in 2026, I'm happy to do that. Just put it down below in the comment section. But I also did a video right here that talks about theanine and how theanine is one of the more powerful cortisol reducing compounds that's out there. And it's dirt cheap. So you want to check that video out on how to strategically use it. As always, I'll see you tomorrow.

=== FILE: I Started Eating 1.5lbs of Beef Every Day, Here’s What I’ve Noticed [yRCyQdsMk5I].txt ===

 I'm eating one and a half pounds of beef every day now. And the only thing that I've noticed is that I have stronger drive, I'm sleeping better, I'm making better videos because my brain is sharper, and I'm stronger and leaner than I've been in six years. Now, I know there's a lot of protein and beef, and that's definitely part of what's helping. There's a lot of collagen, I'm sure that's what's helping. But there's another aspect of eating beef that is extremely important. And it's something that a lot of people lack, especially men. And I promise you, when you fix this issue, you're not going to be as tired, you're going to feel stronger, you're going to have the drive, you might even have the testosterone, and you might feel like yourself again. I'm talking about zinc. Now at the end of this video, I'm also going to share some other ways that you can get zinc. But I'm going to tell you that beef is one of the most bioavailable ways because it comes along with cofactors that help it. But I'm also going to share my protein strategy, like when I have specific protein sources and at what time and why, I'm going to share all that at the end of the video because we need to get into the science of how to use beef and zinc to your advantage. I want to walk you through, one, how zinc influences testosterone in a way that most people never really hear about. Two, I want to talk about how zinc is actually a performance limiter for cognition and memory as we age and how we need to make sure we don't fall into a trap there. We're going to talk about how zinc kind of keeps your immune system from dragging down your energy and recovery because that's critical. And then we're going to talk about how zinc actually can support the bones, which matters more for strength and longevity than most people ever realize. And then we're going to talk my protein strategies, like what I specifically do when I have different proteins for what in addition to the pound and a half of beef. So a lot of this isn't new science, but it's wildly under discussed and weirdly, it's almost suppressed. It's like not talked about. If you train hard, if you work long hours or you push your brain or you push your body, the way that most high performing people do, then this is one of the simplest levers you can pull and I'm dead serious. So before we jump into it, I put a link down below for some other minerals that are important just for everyday life, like sodium, potassium and magnesium. And you can find those in element. So that is a link for a free sample variety pack of element electrolytes with any purchase. So you can get their chocolate salt flavor, you can get their lemon lime, you can get their regular lemonade flavor, all this stuff is amazing. And they have ready to drink sparkling cans as well. So the stuff is epic and it's getting you pretty much a zero calorie or five calorie way to get your minerals in, curb your appetite and just have something that tastes good. So that link is down below. This stuff has been such a game changer for me for the years, like when it comes down to just being able to like go through the day without feeling like I need to munch on stuff all the time. Plus my brain feels sharper because salt is so critical for that neurological function for these neuronal signaling. So that link is down below. Now with zinc, let's start with testosterone. It's stuff that I've done videos on before, but it's really important because most people hear that zinc affects testosterone and they think it's just about maybe boosting their levels. But the interesting part is how it does that because there was a study in nutrition. It took men and it put them on a zinc restricted diet for 20 weeks. Their testosterone levels dropped significantly when they did that. And right there we see that zinc is tied to the actual testosterone synthesis process. That makes sense when you look under the hood because testosterone production depends on enzymes that convert cholesterol into hormones and those enzymes require zinc. So when zinc is low, that entire pathway slows down and you could be doing literally everything right like your diet could be pretty good. You could be training, sleeping, doing all that stuff, but you're not actually producing testosterone efficiently. So it kind of throws everything in a funk. And that's again, why like bumping up my beef consumption has just made a difference in all of those things without me even realizing that I'm just adding more zinc. But I would say the more surprising layer is what happens next with it. The testosterone levels on your labs only really tell you how much of really testosterone is floating around, right? It doesn't tell you how well the hormone is actually being used. So if that there was a 2018 study in frontiers and physiology, this found that muscle growth had less to do with testosterone and was more about the energy and receptors that testosterone binds to. Again, I've talked about this in a few videos before. So the real question isn't always like how much testosterone do you have? It's more so is your body responding to it? Is it actually using that testosterone? And this is where zinc shows up again in a huge way in a molecular pharmacology study because this found that zinc was increasing the sensitivity of those receptors. So it was making it so that testosterone was bound more effectively to that actual receptor and it sent a stronger signal. So instead of thinking of zinc as something that just boosts testosterone, better to think of it as something that improves the entire ecosystem, the entire conversation between testosterone and your muscle and your tissues. It helps you produce the hormone, but more so it helps your body hear the hormone more clearly. And I've said that a few times before, like it's about communications that testosterone does its job. So for someone that's training hard, that really matters, right? You're not just playing with hormone levels. You're improving the communication and the efficiency of that whole system. Now that we've covered the hormone side, let's go into the second part of this video, which is more so about cognition, which also plays a role in our libido because if our brain's functioning well and everything's working there, then things work downstairs too. Because if everything is functioning up in the brain and things are working well, then that plays a part in all kinds of things too, even testosterone production, because the brain is all wired there too. Your brain actually stores a tremendous amount of zinc in the cerebral cortex. And that's the part that's responsible for decision making. It's for your memory, for executive function, problem solving. Zinc is like a co-pilot to how neurons communicate, especially what's called the glutamate driven pathway, which is tied to learning new things and even our memory. So there's a study in the journal, neurophysiology that shows zinc sitting inside the vesicles of glutamatergic neurons, regulating the release and the reuptake of glutamate. So basically zinc was helping make sure that the neurons don't just fire, but that they fire cleanly. It's like accuracy. It's like having a scope, right? So in zinc levels dip, you will experience things that don't immediately scream like, hey, I have a nutrient deficiency, but you're going to have these subtle things like trouble focusing, slower recall, worse vocabulary, losing your train of thought, even mid-sentence, right? So most guys might chalk that up to just age or stress, but the brain is heavily relying on zinc to maintain the accuracy of those rapid fire connections. The human data really backs that up. It's not just mechanistic gobbledygook, right? The American journal, clinical nutrition found older adults with low levels of zinc performed markedly worse on cognitive tests and the zenith trial, which is a placebo controlled trial in the British Journal of Nutrition found that 15 to 30 milligrams of zinc improved spatial working memory in adults all the way up to their late 80s. So for men between 25 and 85, really, but if you get into like men 25 and 65, like the main range, this is huge. This cognitive decline doesn't start when we get old. It starts with small slips in your 30s. It starts in your 40s and then it starts to progress in your 50s. And people misinterpret that as just getting older. It shouldn't be that way. A lot of those micro slips are tied to nutrients that quietly run the whole show. You should not be losing cognitive function as you get older, right? It's period. Like you should be, if anything, you could make an argument that you should be getting better. And that's moving to the immune system because if there's one area where zinc has overwhelming evidence, it's immune function and zinc is involved in over 300. It's like 340 right now, enzymatic reactions. And most of them are deeply intertwined with how your immune system responds to threats and inflammation, including muscle recovery. And what most people don't even see or hear about is that even mild zinc deficiency will make your immune system behave like an older immune system. As a study showed that zinc deficient people ended up having immune disturbances similar to what we see in aging, like debilitating populations, right? So it's like, wow, it basically made them seem like they were old and fragile. So if you've ever felt like you're constantly fighting something off, like recovering slow, you're dealing with this inflammation all the time, zinc could be playing a much bigger role than you think. And there's a really cool randomized trial that was published in the AGC in where older elderly adults took 30 milligrams per day. And they saw in that study that they had a huge boost in their T cell numbers and their function like their immune T cells. So zinc helped their immune system respond really quickly and efficiently to threats for someone training regularly that's beating their body up. This can make the difference between adapting or feeling run down for days or ultimately getting sick because you're training too hard. But now it's moving to the piece about bone density, which also has to do with connective tissue too, because I know bone health and even connective tissue health doesn't sound super exciting. It's like it's tied to cell insurance, right? But it's so essential for long term performance because bones and connective tissue aren't just about preventing tears and fractures. They're a foundation for power output. They are your stability. They are your longevity in training to be able to keep doing it for a long time. And zinc is required for the activity of these osteoblasts, which are the cells that build bone and it slows down osteoclasts, which are the cells that break down bone. There is a journal trace elements study that found that bone crystals incorporated zinc as part of their structure. So again, eating that pound and a half of beef, which is getting me 30 to 40 milligrams of zinc, this is helping me across the board, right? So when zinc is low, we are not eating a lot of good quality meat, bone formation suffers and mineralization doesn't occur efficiently. That means weaker bones. That means slower recovery. It's a shorter runway for training hard as you age. So for any guy who wants to be strong at 40 or capable at 50 powerful at 60, like zinc, I don't see it as optional. I see it as necessary. It's critical. So now we've covered testosterone. We talked about cognition, immunity, a little bit of bone and connective tissue. Let's talk about some takeaways before I get into how I use it and how I use different protein structures. So first off, don't just go for a zinc supplement. I would strongly prefer you don't do that because although that will work, it really only works if you're deficient and you can kind of manage what you need to balance it. I'll explain that a second. So prioritize the zinc rich whole foods, right? The beef, the ground beef, oysters, muscles, clams, shrimp, lamb, pork, right? These things are really good, even like yogurt to a certain degree. These give you zinc in a biovital form that your body absorbs easier and they come packaged with the support of nutrients, the cofactors, the things they need. And if you do supplement, it gets a little bit more complicated. You got to pair it with copper because high zinc over a period of a few weeks starts reducing copper. So you have to look for roughly like eight to one, 10 to one zinc to copper ratio, which you can find it out there for sure. That keeps the mineral balance intact. It prevents the fatigue and the low mood and the weakness that comes from copper dipping too low because that whole different can of worms aim for moderate consistent dosing. 10 to 30 milligrams per day, not mega dosing. That's not going to help you at spikes and then it's water soluble, so it depletes, right? If you're training hard or you're sweating a lot, your zinc turnover is higher. But once again, that just means maybe eat more ground beef, right? Don't just add more supplement in athletes, even people with faster metabolisms and guys that are like maybe eating leaner diets, they tend to run low on zinc more easily. Okay. So dietary sources start mattering a lot more. If your focus, your recovery, or maybe like your drive is feeling flat, the zinc is probably one of the lowest friction variables to check before you start going like the TRT route or any of the other stuff because it supports that signaling network that lets everything else fire the way it's supposed to. Now, before I get into like my protein strategy, just to bring it full circle. So let's talk a little bit about what I do in terms of protein timing and protein sources real quick because how do I get a pound and a half of beef in? Well, first of all, it's not that hard, right? Because if I'm having eight ounces of beef in a serving, that's just three servings of beef. And first off, on the days that I'm fasting, I'll usually have a one pound serving of beef as my first big meal. So then I'm just having another eight ounce serving. It's not that much, right? And technically you're weighing it raw. So like it's actually not all that much. It sounds like a lot. Oh, it eats a pound and a half of beef. But here's how I kind of structure my day. I will oftentimes work out first thing in the morning and I will have a whey and collagen blend. I'll add whey protein and a scoop of collagen. I am a fan of doing that right when I first finish my workout, unless I'm fasting that day, right? So as the day goes on, beef becomes my staple. On days that I'm doing a lot of fasting, I will add some chicken or turkey in to get B1, some thymine. But that's a different story for a different day. I'm not giving you a day in the life of me right now. I'm just giving you how I structure my protein. After a workout, it is important that you get whey and collagen because collagen stimulates connective tissue protein synthesis. So it actually recovers your tendons and your joints. And we're seeing that in the literature now. We also see that combining whey and collagen actually allows for whey to work better. So we see a synergy there. So that's an important thing. Now the beef that I consume is usually ground beef. Why? For the same reason. I get the meat and I also get the gristle. So it's like I'm getting collagen. I'm always trying to pound that collagen protein in through natural whole food sources as much as possible. Very important there. Eggs are also very important. On the days I'm not fasting, my first meal of the day usually is a few eggs and ground beef. It's what is it called a Joe's scramble or something like that where you mix that. That's perfect, right? If I'm trying to keep it leaner, I'll just go leaner beef and maybe some egg whites. It's not hard to modulate calories and still get the same nutritional value in. Now when I'm looking at brain function, there's nothing better than beef and eggs. I've got beef, which is giving me the zinc and the vitamin A, which definitely helps the brain function. And then I've got the choline from the eggs, right? And the cholesterol, the zinc helps the cholesterol synthesize in its testosterone. It's like beef and eggs are the absolute, in my opinion, man food, right? This makes sense. Caught as cheese has started to become like a couple of nights a week, a staple about a half an hour before bed. But Thomas, you said not to eat these things before bed. Well, Dr. Mike Ormsby's lab published some interesting stuff that said on days you're trying to get more protein in eating just protein, not high fat, no carbs, but just moderate fat, little bit of cottage cheese, a couple grams of fat, so low fat. That can actually increase your overnight or your morning fat oxidation rates while keeping protein high. So I will do that. And it's actually improved my sleep. But if I do it every night, it doesn't seem to work. It's like a one off thing on days I'm training harder and I want to hire protein load, right? So that's an interesting strategy that you can implement. I also recommend having a minimum 12 hour fast overnight. Okay. That's not intermittent fasting. That's just going from six to six or seven to seven, minimum 12 hours. Don't try to make like a 16 hour overnight fast thing, a regular thing. Okay. That starts shrinking the amount of time you can get your calories in too much. Morning fasting is great, but let it be sort of a shock to the system to allow yourself to kind of get the stimulus without making it a routine that your body adapts to. Now I did do a video as well that talks about Toncat Ali, which is a great way to improve overall testosterone levels. If you're looking for that extra boost, it works on like a three pronged axis, very interesting video. So check that one out and I'll link to it right here. And as always, I'll see you tomorrow.

=== FILE: If Dates Are Pure Sugar, Why Are They So Amazing For You？ [q9fADurGNe4].txt ===

 dates aren't the same as regular sugar. They don't respond to the same in the body. Sure, they have sugar. Sure, they are a carbohydrate. And at the end of the day, carbohydrates do operate similarly in our body when they're broken down into pure glucose, fructose, whatever. But there are key differences here. They are not potato-potato, they are very different. And the thing is, is when you look at the literature, it makes some more sense. Now, it's not just because of the fiber in a date. Okay, dates, yes, they have fiber. They are a whole fruit, so it's different than just consuming pure table sugar. But there's something fundamentally different, and we will break it all down. So first, we need to look at a study that actually analyzes the difference between fruit juice and a sugar solution inside the body, which is wild because most of us think fruit juice is pure sugar, and fruit juice does have a lot of sugar, but when we look at it like this, it really puts it in a different perspective. So let's break it down. And after today's video, I also popped a link down below for armra colostrum, which is what I would say one of the most important supplements when you are fasting, and the reason is, because after a fast or gut barrier, integrity is a little bit compromised, and that's what colostrum is really most noted for, is gut health and gut barrier integrity. So I've been using colostrum for a long time, and specifically armra, because they're the only brand that still has the bioactive compounds, over 400 of them intact, because they use a particular cold processing that doesn't damage the living bioactive compounds that are in colostrum. So really unique product, and that's why it's been making so many ways, it really is the only colostrum product out there that is worth taking, at least in my opinion. So that link down below gets you a special discount off armra. They've got their travel stick packs, they've got their tubs. I prefer the orange flavor, because it's, I don't know, just tastes good. It kind of tastes like an orange cream sickle, and the stick packs really convenient when I'm traveling, and when I know my gut health might be a little bit more compromised, or I'll take it a little bit more often when I'm fasting or a little more stressed. So that link down below in the top line of the description. So this study was published in Nutrients, and it's an interesting one, because it is done in rodents, but it's still very, very clear. Okay, so it's a four week study where they gave rodents four different kinds of fruit juices, or a sugar solution that they could consume ad libitum. So it was the same amounts of sugar, same concentration, same content of sugar. Just one was from fruit juice, and one was from a sugar solution. With the ad libitum fruit juice, they could consume as much as they wanted to, and they saw no increase in fasting blood glucose. This is pretty wild, because you would expect that there would be an increase there. Now, with the sugar solution, there was an increase in fasting glucose, but that's not where it stops. In the sugar solution group, there was an increase in caloric intake that there was not in the fruit juice group, and there was also an increase in oxidative stress. Okay, well, maybe that has something to do with the polyphenols that are in the fruit juice that's protecting from the oxidative stress. I don't know how you really explain the caloric intake change. Maybe the difference in fructose versus sucrose. The interesting thing is, is that even with sucrose, you're still looking a decent percentage of fructose, because sucrose is a combination of glucose and fructose. We're not talking pure glucose here. So it's actually more of a similar make-up to fruit than people would typically think. What else is interesting is in this sugar group, there is an increase in weight gain. There was more weight actually accumulated. There was an increase in overall hyperglycemia and an increase in insulin resistance. This is interesting because with the insulin resistance piece, a lot of times it's a which came first, the chicken or the egg situation, with fatty liver and insulin resistance. And some would say that, well, fruit juice would give you a fatty liver because of the fructose, but in this case, it was the sugar solution that actually increased insulin resistance, implying that there could be a change in fatty liver. They didn't test this with this study, which would have been interesting to see. Lastly, there was impaired glycation with a sugar group that wasn't with the fruit group, meaning that it was promoting the activation or the advanced glycation in-product effect. So more glycation. Now, when we look at dates, we do have to understand that in a whole food date, it's going to be lower glycemic. That's probably because of fiber, but also a number of different things and how it's ripened. For example, a study published in Diabetes and Metabolic Syndrome looked at different dates and they found that like root top dates are about a 47 on the glycemic index scale. That's actually pretty low. Okay, then you have tamer dates in a sun dried fashion, which are about a 45 or so on the glycemic index scale. And then you have tamer dates that are more commercially ripened. You're looking at these down to like a 35, 36 on the glycemic index scale. So we have a wide variety, and then there's even some dates, depending on how they're ripened, that can be as high as a 74. So I encourage you to do some research. Maybe you can just Google it or chat GPT it or something where you find like what date kinds are going to be the lowest GI. Because yeah, it has to do with fiber, antioxidants, but it could also just do with how it's ripened. And even then it's a negligible difference in the taste in some ways for those that aren't familiar with dates. Probably the most profound piece is that dates contain a very small amount of allulose. Now allulose is also a little bit in raisins. It's also a little bit in figs. Figs and dates happen to be two fruits. I'm a big fan of particularly figs because they're even lower sugar content than dates. But this is interesting because with allulose, there was a cool study published in BMJ where they took 30 non-diabetic people. Okay, so regular people, they didn't have any like diabetes or insulin resistance. They gave them 50 grams of sucrose. So 50 grams sucrose bolus. And then they gave them 2 1⁄2 grams or 5 grams or 7 1⁄2 grams or 10 grams of diallulose. What they found is that in a dose dependent fashion, allulose brought their blood sugar down in 30 minutes after consumption actually brought their insulin levels down too, indicating that it was actually helping the clearance of glucose. Now, I've talked about allulose before on this channel, but in this particular case, the reason is probably having this profound effect with dates is threefold. One, there's an increase in GLP-1 activity. So more GLP-1 having an ozymphic like effect. Okay, so GLP-1, therefore making it so that you're more C-sheeted, you possibly eat less, but also in doubt clearing the glucose and putting it where it needs to go better. Second, it inhibits alpha glucosidase, which means it literally slows down the breakdown of the carbohydrates a little bit more. And thirdly, it binds to the Glute 2 receptor. Now, the Glute 2 receptor is interesting because it takes glucose predominantly and puts it in the liver. Now, Glute 2 receptors have a very low affinity for sugar, but a high capacity. And what that means is that they, in the presence of high blood sugar, they can soak up a lot of the overage. So they're very good at taking that extra and putting it somewhere else. So they help it get into the liver. So if they take and they occupy that Glute 2 receptor with allulose, you're reducing the amount of sugar that's going into the liver, which thereby means you could help prevent more in the way of insulin resistance, but you could also help clear that glucose so it doesn't contribute to extra sugar in the liver. So then it's actually able to be utilized by other cells and possibly just reducing it at all, and thereby allowing other glucose transporters to put it into the muscle cells. One of the most interesting things about dates is if you eat a whole date and you also get the date seeds, there's interesting evidence on the antioxidant profile of the date seeds themselves, of the date seed extract. And with this, we look at a study published in Scientific Reports. It was mechanistic, and it looked at the impact of date seeds on the pancreas. So the study found that date seeds decreased the oxidative stress and decreased the inflammation in the pancreas, and thereby allowed the pancreatic islet cells to produce more insulin. This is tremendous, because again, from an insulin resistance standpoint, it's allowing the pancreas to produce more insulin, which allows the body to deal with glucose better, which subsequently long-term requires less insulin to be produced because you retain or regain that sensitivity and you don't have this vicious cycle happening anymore. There's also a few other really interesting things about dates. For one, they're very high in beta-glucans. Beta-glucans are a type of sugar-ish, they technically a sugar, I guess, prebiotic fiber, how do you want to classify them? There's like multiple glucose molecules that are bound together, but we cannot activate them or access them because we don't have the enzyme to unlock all those glucose molecules bound together. So essentially, it forms a gel. So you think like oatmeal, high in beta-glucans, that's why it gets gelatinous and weird. So when you eat dates, it forms a gelatinous-like substance in your gut that actually makes it harder to absorb the sugar. Then you also have galactamanan, which is another interesting compound that forms a gel-like substance. So dates, when they're in our gut, we probably don't absorb all the sugar. That's probably what's quite interesting about it and why they don't have the same blood sugar impact. Now, they're still sugar, so please keep in mind, I don't think you should just go out willy-nilly eating all of them. But also the saponins that are in dates have a profound effect on oxidative stress and inflammation. So at the end of the day, I hope you're sticking with me through this whole video. Know that dates are still sugar. And if you have insulin resistance or you're dealing with blood sugar issues, I don't suggest you go and eat a handful of them. But if you're trying to sweeten something and you really want sugar, perhaps using date sugar or even whole-mashed dates is just a better option for you. As always, please give it a lock and hear my channel and I'll see you tomorrow.

=== FILE: Sourdough Bread is Healthier than Oatmeal, Cereal and Wheat Bread, Here’s Why [kyiFDpAyjDM].txt ===

 the European cultures eat so much bread, lots of fresh baked bread, but they don't have the same kinds of issues that we have in the United States. They don't have the same sensitivities to the breads. They don't have the same kind of metabolic issues, that's for sure. Their longevity is better, their BMI is better, their waist-tipper issue is better. Why is the bread different in Europe? I can't speak specifically to why exactly the bread is different, but what we can compare here is fresh baked sourdough to regular bread that you might get in the United States. Now, even in the United States, even with the kind of wheat that we have here, the wheat in Europe is different. There's definitely a difference there, so that is a big piece. But even with the wheat that we have in the US, how you cook it, how you make bread from it could play a role, and there's some strong evidence with sourdough compared to other types of bread. At the very basic level, like sourdough doesn't sound that bad. I mean, you're really just taking flour and water and letting it ferment. There are a lot worse things that you could be consuming, right? You could go to the grocery store and get hyper-palatable stuff, really bad stuff. A lot of times, bread ends up in the crosshairs, when in the grand scheme of things, at a very simple, like homemade level, bread is white, simple, and fairly benign, unless you have a gluten issue. Anyway, let's first talk about the glycemic effect. We're going to talk about glycemic carbohydrate effect, we're going to talk about proteins, we're going to talk about the gluten, we're going to cover it all so we understand what's going on. But from a glycemic perspective, like sourdough impacts your blood sugar and insulin differently. There is a study published in grain and oil science and technology. Consumption of sourdough bread can decrease the glycemic and insulin responses after a meal. Essentially, there are clear components of sourdough bread that impact how we metabolize it, how we digest it, and the effect that it has on our blood sugar and insulin levels. This was published in the Journal of Agriculture and Food Chemistry. They had rodents consume multiple different kinds of bread. When they consumed the sourdough bread, they had significantly lower postprandial glucose and lower postprandial insulin. It's one thing to have an effect on your glucose levels. It's another thing when you actually affect how much insulin the pancreatic beta cells release. If they're able to get by with releasing less, this is huge because chronically high levels of insulin, that's a problem worldwide, not just in America. But now we can go back to the other review, that grain and oil science technology review, and try to understand some mechanisms here. Why is sourdough different? Why is bread in Europe different? The acidity that occurs as a result of good long duration fermentation, you're lowering the pH of the food. When you lower the pH of the food, you actually delay the digestion a little bit anyway. This in and of itself is going to make it a better area under the curve with your glucose response. As far as your blood sugar, your insulin, you're probably going to have an easier time, something because it's going to digest slower. I think one of the bigger pieces is when something ferments, you have an increase in these organic acids. This decreases or even inhibits sacrifice. Sacrification is a fancy way of saying, break down of carbohydrates in a way. By inhibiting sacrifice, sourdough fermented foods may reduce the production of hyperglycemic reactor substances, thus lowering the glycemic index. You're having less of these substances that would trigger a high glycemic response. So by inhibiting sacrifice, you're leaving them sort of bound together. You're not letting them release, you're not letting these super high glycemic compounds release that would normally lead to more glycation in the body and things like that. So you're quelling that and it's having less of a glycemic response. The other thing that we have to look at is type two fermentation, which is common with sourdough, especially in Europe, that's going to lead to more resistant starches. Resistance starches are literally resistant to digestion in our human body. When you have bacteria that are feeding on starches, you actually can end up with different structure altogether. So what started as a carbohydrate that would be digestible by humans becomes a resistant starch, which means it's not absorbed and utilized in our body. Instead, it's going through a digestive system and it's feeding the bacteria within our gut, becoming a resistant starch and actually being beneficial almost in an insoluble fiber prebiotic type way. It changes the structure and it makes it a less glycemic, but B also a more beneficial practically a health food. And then of course, from the glycemic standpoint, you're fermenting a lot of the sugars just through the fermentation process alone. So the sugars that would normally cause some bloating and discomfort in a lot of people with breads, a lot of those get fermented and consumed by the bacteria in the first place. So you already have an in result being less sugar, but you also have sugars that might cause gastric discomfort. Now we're going to get into the gluten in the protein section here in just a second because this is the big one. Okay, the gluten piece, there are people that can travel to Europe, have gluten sensitivities, consume gluten in Europe and have less of a problem. That is pretty wild. So we need to address what's potentially happening here even in the United States with sourdough. I would personally recommend that people just make their own sourdough when they can. There's just too much nefarious stuff out there, right? You can buy good sourdough bread in the refrigerated section that's like gluten free and stuff too. But I recommend getting like a gluten free sourdough starter and just making your own. That way you're making it from a rice flour. You're not having to deal with the wheat thing. There are good sourdough options. So what I usually recommend people do is, hey, if you're trying to add a little bit of sourdough in, start by making it yourself, add little bits here and there. And if you want my honest opinion, I don't see a reason to have copious amounts of sourdough in your life. I think bread is a gateway for a lot of people that can put down in the comment section like what you think. I think bread can be a gateway where it's like, okay, have a little bit. I felt okay. I don't want you to get into this world where now all of a sudden you feel like you have all kinds of bread. I mean, you've worked really hard to get it out of your life. I went ahead and put a link down below for something that can help your mitochondria. It's a product called Timeline and it is really interesting. It's a patented thing called mitopure. So it induces what is called mitophagy. So it helps the mitochondria go through autophagy, which helps you potentially process fuel better, helps give you energy. It's good for the muscles. The mitochondria is very important when it comes to longevity and all kinds of other metabolic functions within the body. So being able to have those mitochondria go through their natural recycling process where old mitochondria get broken down and turned into new mitochondria, that's very important. It comes from a compound that's called urolithin A. So that link is down below. It's in the top line of the description. It's called Timeline longevity. Really interesting urolithin A compound. Definitely recommend it directly underneath this video. Sourdough fermenting the flower in the first place changes the structure of the proteins first and foremost. So it makes the proteins easier to digest. And the reason that does this is because once again, you're lowering the pH, increasing the acidity. This increases what are called proteases. These are enzymes that break down proteins. So that's why people at a very surface level bloating issue, they have issues breaking down the proteins, they have sourdough, they don't have much of an issue. And in Europe, it's infinitely better. And I don't have all the answers there, but it seems like people can go there and not have any bloating at all. But there's also a study published in micro organisms that looks at this thing called protein stability. And they found that through the fermentation process, when there's multiple kind of species feeding, you have increased levels of certain ribosomal proteins. This changes what is called protein stability. So across the board, the protein levels are more stable and the proteins themselves at like a very minuscule level are more stable. It means they're higher quality. It means the body knows what to do with them better. And again, they are easily absorbed and easily utilized. But then we need to get into the gluten discussion because gluten and gliadin, these are proteins. They have these antibodies to specific proteins. Okay. And then this, you're typically going to see it with alpha gliadin and gamma gliadin, right? So if they have these proteins come in from bread, the body sees them as an internal threat, starts having an antibody effect like response. And they can have a flare up and being a lot of discomfort. So there's celiac, which is the diagnosed issues. And then there's intolerances kind of at different stages up to that. So you may not have a full blown issue with it, but you might be like, I don't feel right when I have gluten. I feel like my body's fighting back a little bit. That is not uncommon, but I'm not a doctor. So I can't comment too far on that. What I can say is the fermentation process changes the surface structure of the alpha gliadin and the gamma gliadin in the bread. This could make it so that it doesn't necessarily get as recognized in sort of the fluid space next to the stomach and next to the intestinal tract where it might get detected if it was in its normal form. Full disclaimer, I don't recommend if you have celiac that you go eat sourdough bread. Most people that have celiac would probably still have an issue and it doesn't take much to tip them over the edge, which is why they need things very squeaky clean and allergy friendly. But if you're someone that is gluten sensitive and you get bloated and you get like fatigued and lethargic and brain foggy, there's a good chance that sourdough won't have as much of a negative effect on you because the surface structure of those alpha and gamma gliadin proteins is slightly different. When you ferment bread, you also increase phytases and you increase some of these other enzymes, which we'll talk about like phytases, for example, that's going to break down the phytic acid. That's going to make it so that the minerals and the vitamins that are in the bread can actually get out. They're not locked up and hard to digest. Phytic acid is not something I recommend having high amounts of, right? It kind of binds up things so they don't absorb or digest as well. Then you have xylonease. Xylonease breaks down the hemicellulose in cereal like cell walls. So we forget that cereal grains and grains and things like that in general, they have cells and these cells have rigid walls and like hemicellulose. Cellulose is hard for the body to break down and it's a fiber, it's a roughage and it's sort of a structure, right? So when you have things like xylonease that can help break that down, it makes us so once again, it's easier to digest, right? And then finally, there's amylase. Amylase breaks down starches. So in essence, when you elevate these enzymes, breads that are sourdough fermented, they become highly easy to digest, which could be problematic for some people, right? Could increase absorption of those carbohydrates, which might lead to more area under the curve blood sugar if you eat a lot of it. But it's also going to be less reactive in the body and less potential bloating. So I hope that you gather the takeaway from this video, not as go eat a bunch of sourdough, but if you're trying to introduce some sourdough, you can do so slowly. You probably have better luck in Europe doing it because of the type of wheat that's used. And fermentation in general is good. And the longer something is fermented, probably the more slack you're going to have. As always, keep it locked from your right channel. I'll see you tomorrow.

=== FILE: The Most Precise Study on Prolonged Fasting Ever Conducted [Kz8lyawTd68].txt ===

 this is the most precise prolonged fasting study that's ever been conducted. It didn't just look at metabolic parameters. It looked at over 3,000 proteins and how they changed over every minute stage of a long, multi-day fast. But it also looked at what happened before the fast, during the fast, and after the fast was broken. Imagine being able to know precisely what's going on in your body, not just by looking at fat and ketones and glucose, but by actually looking at what's happening to collagen, what's happening to the immune system, what's happening to muscle protein breakdown. So we have a real answer to understand the magic of fasting more than just caloric restriction. So here's what we're going to cover with this video. First, we're going to talk about what this study was and what it did. Then secondly, we'll move into the findings, get into what they discover over the course of a multi-day fast. Then thirdly, we'll talk about what this tells us for the ideal length of time that you should be fasting. And then fourthly, we're going to talk about how you can take what we've learned from this and apply it to your own specific lengths of fasts and also accelerate those fasts so you can get more out of a 24 or more out of a 48 hour fast. So let's just jump right in. Before we get into the super nitty-gritty, I put a link down below for Seed Daily Symbiotic. If you're fasting or you're especially doing prolonged fasting, taking care of the microbiome becomes super important after you break your fast. I talk about this all the time. The gut microbiome remodels and you want to take care of it. So I put a link down below. That is a prebiotic and a probiotic in one capsule and that is a 20% off discount link. So a really unique discount on Seed Daily Symbiotic since they don't usually do discounts. And that is a prebiotic and a probiotic in one that breaks down in multiple stages throughout digestion. So very unique compound and perfect for after you break a fast to help remodel that gut microbiome. So that link is down below in the top of the description. So this study was published in Nature Metabolism. Normally fasting studies look at metabolic markers, which means they're normally looking at protein a little bit. They're looking at carbs, they're looking at fats, they're looking at ketones, they're looking at lipid profiles, cholesterol. That's all great. We need to know that. But the more that you get into the science in this, you start realizing that that's those are really top line things. That's not getting into the details. This study looked at 2,963 various proteins and it told us everything about fasting. It told us what pathways activated early, what pathways activated late, what benefit you're getting out of a 24 versus a 36 hour fast versus a seven day fast. So the design was they had subjects do a normal diet for one day, they took a bunch of readings, and then they did a full on seven day water fast with no caffeine, no coffee, no tea, just water. And then days eight through 14, they also monitored. So they looked at what would happen if they refeed and how they eat and how that changes things, which we learned some interesting stuff there. They measured metabolic hormones, they measured fuel, they measured nitrogen and overall protein breakdown, they measured immune proteins, they measured autophagy, they measured catabolism, and they measured preservation and conservation, all of which we'll talk about in a second. So let's move into the second phase, which is what they actually found in the study. The most important thing they found is that the most pronounced changes happened on day three. So after 48 hours, they had pretty strong changes after one day, but after day two, when they got into the third day, robust metabolic changes and robust protein changes across the board, they found that by day three, carb related proteins, carbohydrate related proteins were pretty much nil, they were gone, the body was like, forget it, and a massive surge in fat oxidation and ketone particular proteins. So what that was telling us was, although that happened to the shorter term fasting, after 48 hours is when that carb system just kind of shuts off and the body says we are in a sort of form of starvation and let's up regulate all things related to fat and ketone production. But there's a huge twist here, because you can get that with regular fasting. What you don't get with that is a major burst in FGF 21, fibroblast growth factor 21. This is a very interesting thing, because what this is, is it indicates metabolic stress and it up regulates all kinds of protective systems that start preserving muscle and it starts making the body just burn more fat rapidly and actually preserve muscle and not even really be interested in glucose. As a result in this, you have a major decrease in leptin. So you have much less overall hunger. Now this is common, but this is amazingly powerful for people that are dealing with leptin resistance, because it takes a lot to drop leptin as much as it did and the proteins associated with it. So what that looks like is someone that is very overweight doesn't feel like they're hungry, but they're still gaining weight. Well, this could help restore that leptin sensitivity. So if that's you, 48 hours might be the magic sweet spot for you. There's also a big increase in what's called adiponectin. This is secreted by fat cells and it's actually very anti-inflammatory. So we're finding that a lot of the benefits that you're getting from feeling so good after 48 hours of a fast is actually coming from this anti-inflammatory molecule that's being secreted by your fat, essentially getting used. After day three, after about 65 to 72 hours, there was a major change in muscle protein breakdown. They actually noticed that there were proteins that would upregulate that preserved muscle and stopped the muscle protein breakdown. Now we know that ketones can have this effect on the metabolic side, but actually at the scaffolding side, the actual protein and gene expression side, things were starting to get preserved and they were able to prove this by measuring nitrogen and looking at urea. So when they look at nitrogen, that tells you exactly your protein turnover. Less nitrogen being excreted means you're burning less muscle. As a matter of fact, they were burning surprisingly very little muscle. I don't know. What was interesting is that there was an increase in IGF binding proteins and IGF tends to go down a little bit during some of these fasting periods, but the binding proteins were increasing. So what that means is that you had less circulating IGF because the binding proteins might have been binding it up. So it's a little harder to build muscle and get an anabolic response when you're in a fast, but that's okay. Your goal is really preservation. Interestingly enough, growth hormone did seem to increase, but that makes sense because you're burning more fat, growth hormone helps lipolysis, and you're ultimately preserving muscle because of that growth hormone release. But by far, the coolest thing that they found in this study was the immune system changes. Not talking about typical immune system getting sick stuff, that matters too, but we're talking about overall remodeling of the immune system. Fasting after 48 to 72 hours seemed to be like dead end a little bit. So once you got to 72, you were really at the peak benefit and you just maintained it. But what they found is that it didn't raise or lower the immune system. It remodeled and restructured it. So things called chemokine signaling reorganized. What the body would seek out as a threat kind of changed. It reset things. This is hugely important for chronic inflammation. They actually found that immune system surveillance increased while activity decreased. So it got better at going around and tagging threats and dealing with chronic issues. That explains why so many people feel so dang good after a multi day fast, and they actually retain that things reset. One of the coolest things that happened though, and probably the most important thing is there were major changes to the ECM, the extracellular matrix. What this means is it actually made structural changes to collagen turnover and how we actually restructure proteins and connective tissue in our body, including not just our gut lighting, but our overall tendons, our ligaments, connective tissue in general. They even saw increases in proteins associated with wound healing. All the fasting magic stuff that people talk about might actually have merit. It's not just caloric restriction. It's what caloric restriction does for prolonged periods of time. But you're not going to see this same stuff with just reducing calories to 1000 calories a day. You're going to see this with a prolonged fast. So if we get into the third part of this video that I want to talk about is how this actually applies to you and what you learn from this and how you can structure your fasting to get the most out of it. If you're looking for more in the way of body aches and pains and you're trying to restructure things, it seems as though a 48 to 72 hour fast might really be a sweet spot because that ECM, that extracellular matrix and that collagen turnover, that was nothing small. That was big scale stuff. And we're seeing this in human data that people are having literal changes in how their collagen turns over. Combine that with the major anti-inflammatory and immune system effect, the remodeling of the immune system. This could be. And I say could because I don't want to make a claim. Something that's very powerful for people dealing with arthritis, people dealing with chronic issues with their joints. This is something that I've talked about with George St. Pierre when I interviewed him. Like he feels so amazing on these longer fasts. And when I did that 72 hour fast with him, which was the first three day fast I'd done in about a year, I remembered how amazing my joints feel. This is why. So that is the sweet spot for joint health as long as you're remodeling things properly after the fast with the right diet, which we'll talk about in just a second. Because there's a very important thing you need to follow when you're breaking your fast and you're eating after a longer fast, especially. One of the things they noticed after simply 36 hours was like I mentioned that decrease in the leptin. But that decrease in leptin also coincided with an increase in the leptin receptor sensitivity. This is very, very important because it means that even though leptin went down, the receptors for it got more sensitive, which means that when you come off of a fast, you have a chance at beating leptin resistance and getting through that hormonal signaling that's keeping your appetite high or making it so it's really hard for the brain to get the signal to start burning fat. Unbelievably important. And this kicks in after just 36 hours. Now, before I get into ways to amplify a fast and kind of how you need to time things and what's happening, let's talk about what they saw after people broke a fast. The most important thing is that they saw that how you break a fast and how you eat for the following three days after a longer fast, absolutely positively can undo the benefits of a fast. And the biggest culprits, refined carbohydrates, refined sugars, having these things that trigger a heavy inflammatory response. What they found is that eating whole simple foods for three days made a big difference in the proteins that were expressed. You absolutely can retain the benefits of a fast and you can absolutely destroy the benefits of a fast. What's interesting is that you do all this work and you have to hold on to those changes at least for a few days by eating clean, high protein, good quality fats, not a lot of oxidized oils, not a lot of refined starches, none if you can do it, pure fruits and vegetables, whole food matrix, high quality fats for the brain, proper remodeling, high amounts of collagen and connective tissue to help support that collagen turnover. After day four post fast, you can start to lighten up. The interesting thing is, it doesn't matter whether you're doing a two day fast, a three day fast, or a seven day fast, the two to four days after the fast matter equally because most of the ECM changes, most of the immune system changes had taken place by day three anyway, very little continued to change after day three. So you're held to a high state or no matter what. And I love this study because it helps us understand this, that even if we're fasting for two days, the onus is on us to eat clean as best we can. Now what if you want to do a 36 hour fast, but you want to get some of the benefits of a longer fast. Now remember, if you're doing a three day fast, there's no need to go to seven, quite frankly, you're going to get most of the benefits at three, but you're not getting the same benefits of three that you are with 36, unless you use some tools. So some of the things I recommend with a 36 hour fast, spermidine as a supplement to increase autophagy, since we definitely saw autophagy markers increase after 36 hours, we could amplify this more. Resveratrol, as much as I don't believe in resveratrol too much for a bunch of things, because I don't always trust what Dr. Davidson Clair says, because it seems like there's some money in his pockets, I don't know. Point is, is that resveratrol on its own might need not be super powerful, but resveratrol in the presence of fasting could be really interesting at 36 hours and beyond. Some people say, well, that will the antioxidant effects counteract the fast? I think in this case, it might be negligible, because you're actually getting more of the overall autophagy and sort of fasting mimicking effects stacked on top. But another thing that you could try is if you were to use resveratrol, you could use resveratrol after you break your fast, and that could help continue the benefits of a fast afterwards. So you're getting sort of a prolonged fasting effect, even after you've broken the fast. The other thing that's talked about a lot is how we can amplify a 36 hour fast via exercise. Weight training is very beneficial for preserving muscle. But now that we're starting to see the literature that you really do preserve muscle during a longer fast, I'm a little less concerned about heavy resistance training and more just concerned about keeping tension on the muscle to prevent any additional breakdown. However, what we are seeing is that simple exercise like cardio, moderate intensity cardio might drive up this AMPK a little bit more and give you more of an actual prolonged fasting benefit. So whereas weight training preserves the muscle, a little bit of light cardio and full body movement and even upper body cardio like battle ropes and things like that at a moderate intensity can actually make your body feel as though it's doing a longer fast. This is really fascinating and powerful stuff. Now the question comes to things like coffee and cinnamon and things like that that you add to a fast to amplify. I think these are all splitting hairs. When I do a three day fast, I have coffee, I have tea, and I do think that it would change some things, but I think it's to a negligible degree. Now I did another video that breaks down what happens to your body during like a 16 to 36 hour window in more detail for people that like to do shorter fasts. I think that one could be a good one for you to watch if you like to occasionally do longer fast, but then have a foundation of shorter fast. So that video is right here. I recommend you check it out.

=== FILE: The Single Largest Cause of Inflammation in the Human Body [291XL164OM8].txt ===

 forest, if you had to pick one place where inflammation starts, where would it be? I'm gonna have to give you two, if that's okay. So, one, traumatic tissue damage. So if you've had an ACL tear, if you have had a slap tear in your shoulder, if you've had traumatic tissue damage, a surgery anywhere in your body, one of the things that we've found long-term is that this really has a systemic impact from an inflammation standpoint, not just today, but ongoing. And so to put a little bit of color on that, there was a study of over 3,000 NFL players who've had ACL surgery. They've had ACL surgery, they've had recovery, they've had rehab from the best doctors and physios in the world. Then they come back to playing and then 10 to 20 years on, they have an increased cardiovascular disease risk of over 50%. So what we parse that back, and I say we, but I kind of as a broader medical research community, what we've parsed that back to is that traumatic tissue damage continues to generate inflammation and that hits you on the joint. So with an ACL, what you see is higher levels of inflammation in that synovial fluid and that will degrade the tissue, your soft tissue, your cartilage and that knee and you'll have 100% a higher rate of osteoarthritis. It'll also hit you regionally. So locally osteoarthritis regionally, we see poor blood delivery in the quad. And again, this is decades on. So you see colder tissue where there's less cardiovascular delivery of blood in the quad above that same knee. And then systemically, what we see is that you increase the rate of severe cardiovascular disease by over 50%. And that's again after all of the rehab. And so there are great ways to go back and address that with new technology. So that's the first one is traumatic tissue damage. And again, that can be from surgery, that doesn't have to be from an ACL tear. An ACL tears a great example for it because we have really good data around this. But that's from surgery, from tears, from really anything that's caused a traumatic tissue damage in your body. The second is environmental factors. And so this is the one where it's a little bit more invidious. It's much harder to go back and find the smoking gun for this one. But what we're seeing from the medical community around this, from a research standpoint is your gut is at the center of so much of this. So when you have inflammation, this can be caused by, again, metabolic disorder. So you start seeing your gut impacted by the fact that we're not training effectively from an energy generation standpoint. You can see diet impacting this. You can see microplastics impacting this. There's a lot of environmental factors that do impact your gut. And so how that presents from a gut and a pathology standpoint, from an inflammation trigger is you have inflammation in your gut. What keeps it from the rest of your body is a barrier, which is a mucosal lining, and then your gut, which has tight junctions. When you have these environmental factors that can erode that mucosal lining and that can erode and loosen those tight junctions, what you start seeing is, and this is better and better delineated by some very good recent research, is you start seeing systemic inflammation. And that really presents with stiffer cardiovascular endothelial tissue. And so that's one of the kind of early warning signs is, are you, are your pipes in your house rusty, and are they able to perform at the most effective that they could? And there's some very good tests on the plasticity of your cardiovascular endothelial tissue that really allow us to understand what risk people are at because of this, and then take that back in at a population level and understand how this has been impacted and how this has been generated from their guts coming into the rest of the body. So when you talk about, you know, environment, I mean, is the first step getting out of that environment? I mean, I look at things like, I mean, if we get down to the granular of it, I mean, even like EMF and mold and things like that are highly inflammatory, but those can be really difficult to get out of, right? I know like number one is like, get yourself away from whatever source is or whatever the problem is. That's easier said than done. But we know we're surrounded by EMF. We're starting probably seeing the, you ever see that, I don't know if it was ever fully published, but it's an interesting study on the mold and EMF relationship. You can see that one. It was really wild. But basically they basically mold in a self contained environment versus mold in a non-contained environment. So there was like 600X the amount of like spore production because essentially the mold would become stressed in an EMF environment. So as a stress response mold will like create more of itself. So it's, you know, this is becoming a bigger thing and it's becoming less fringe and more mainstream and that, okay, like this is a real thing, like mold and EMF are a very real thing. And, but the point I'm getting at is like, that's really hard for us to like step away from. Like get out of high EMF that is causing stress in the body and potential inflammation. So like what are, what are people supposed to do environmentally specifically? Environmentally, it's really difficult. I think one of the best responses that we're seeing at kind of a population level now is the increased number of functional medicine doctors that are out there that really recognize these problems and that are in the literature and provide solutions for being able to manage it. And so, you know, you can get out of the environment, you can at least manage the outcomes that it, that it kind of, and the stress that it puts on your body. And so there's some very good kind of methodologies that are developing for being able to both diagnose and then intervene with this. I think one of the other things that you can do is start intervening on the inflammatory responses that these trigger in your body, because that's really what mediates a lot of the, the negative outcomes. And we're seeing that more and more that the, the high leverage point is the inflammatory pathways. And if you can turn those off, then even if you're in these kind of negatively impacting environments, the outcomes that you see from that are, are much better and that you can manage these and still stay in a healthy metabolic state and still really keep a healthier cardiovascular endothelial tissue again, which is, is one of those canaries in the, in the coal mine, if that makes sense for, for being able to understand if it is impacting you negatively. Yeah. It seems like, I mean, a lot of it's this, you have a stimulus, you have something that's going to trigger an initial inflammatory response and then the rest is sort of it going haywire, right? Like that's the old cytokine storm, right? The idea of just like once, you know, you have the initial immune response and then you have just the cataclysmic like, you know, thing that's going off. So what are we learning now about being able to modulate that pathway? Because I mean, it's one of the most complex, I mean, they say that immunology is probably the most complex thing that we like, we pretty much know nothing about. We only know these little pieces. So, you know, barring that in mind, like how do we, how do we navigate some of these pathways and actually just get relief, right? Because chronic inflammation sucks. It doesn't feel good. And there's millions and millions and millions of people that deal with it and don't even know how to explain what they're dealing with. Yes, no, 100%. I think your gut is a very high leverage point for this. And so if you're able to, there's a number of different things you can do with probiotics, prebiotics, and then we also work with a lot of immunologists and it's been very exciting. We've developed a gut focused product to be able to help people tighten those tight junctions back up, make sure that you don't have inflammation leaking back into the rest of the body and then validate that. So let's kind of put data on this and measure those cytokine storms. And, you know, to put one more kind of risk factor out there for this, there's also a number of different things where you've seen, but not just, but a number of different kind of knock on effects from triggers for huge levels of inflammation going throughout the body. So if you can come back and treat your gut, this is a really good high leverage point where you can come back and reduce your systemic inflammation and get healthier because of that, even if the environmental factors are still there. And so, yeah, the combination of gut treatments from a laser therapy standpoint for being able to reduce the kind of inflammation ingut and then the leakage of that inflammation, what you'd really like to be able to do is make sure that you're mucosal lining and then the kind of that gut tight junction are the two kind of high leverage points for your gut from an inflammation standpoint. And yeah, the exciting thing about what we're doing for me, and again, I say we as a more as a broader medical community is and research community is we're getting back into points where you find these high leverage kind of 80, 20 touch points for being able to address inflammation. And when you can do that, you see the systemic impacts on cardiovascular endothelial tissue, but also on immune response. And for us, one of the most telling signs from their immune response is you can look at and measure ongoing rates of sickness and how you respond to those. But the biggest thing for this is being able to work with immunologists to be able to dive back behind what these mediating pathways are. And it's still early. So from an immunology standpoint, this is one of the I think most telling signs for this though is as we've been developing gut treatment from a laser therapy standpoint, we anticipated that we would be working with a lot of gastroenterologists on solving gut based issues because that's who deals with gut based issues. What we've actually found for this is a huge response from immunologists because they there's so many different immunology to a certain degree is still kind of a black box. You have a number of different variables that you can test and you have outcomes, but the pathways are so complex that it's really hard to come back and parse what's happening. But what we're seeing right now is massive immune and autoimmune benefits from being able to shore up and reduce the inflammation that's leaking out of the gut. And so to put a little color on that, the reduction of symptoms for asthma, reduction of symptoms for multiple sclerosis, there's really kind of powerful pathologies that are indicative of the impact that you can make from an immune response standpoint and from an autoimmune response standpoint. And so when you talk with immunologists, they're more focused on the outcomes and still digging back into what those mediating pathways are where gastroenterologists are great and they've been very supportive with having an additional device to be able to help particularly with recovery from different surgeries on the gut. Tissue recovery is great. Inflammation is great. But what we see is that the gut as an immune response and autoimmune response lever point is much more exciting for the immunologists than it is for the GIs. What about some things that people can do for gut barrier integrity? Have you looked into much with glutamine and things like that for does that make a dent in anything or is this deeper than just mucosal layer? It does make a dent. Actually, this is one of the things that we're... It's our next steps of research is how do we layer these things in... We've talked about vagus tone today. And so what we try to do with any type of successful treatment is layer it with things that are synergistic that work along separate pathways that can increase the benefits of any outcome that we're able to therapeutically derive. And so with the gut, there's a number of different methodologies for this. Gutamine and we have a number of different tests coming up with different labs around the US for this plan for 2026. But to be honest, right now, the data is very early. We're still seeing what it stacks most effectively with and testing our way through that. So if we look at... You come back to that initial study that you talked about with like the NFL players. That inflammation that is now essentially chronic as a result of a trauma, does that inflammation still epicenter from the gut? Or is that inflammation separate and apart? That's separate and apart. We do see that the gut is actually impacted negatively by that. And so it's additive and it actually triggers the gut in a negative way and then they become kind of mutually building. So the gut always becomes involved somehow. It's just the center of so much in our body. And I think one of the things that we're seeing right now from the medical research around this is that it's traditionally been thought of as the gut brain axis. But what we're finding right now is it's the gut brain, gut liver, gut skin. Like everything connects back to your gut. And it's referred to as your second brain for a good reason. There's really so much out of our daily cognitive performance. And you'll notice this, whether it's from having, if you start into fasting, you'll see an impact in your cognitive performance. If you start into different types of diets, if you're eating poorly, if you're drinking alcohol, so many of these things impact everything in your physiology that we're really at the kind of front end. It's really been over the last three to five years that we're starting to see people look at the kind of protein signaling pathways between the gut and the liver in specific. I know skin is an interesting one for a lot of people, but I think for me the most impactful ones will be gut liver communications and how those impact energy processing and inflammation more systemically in your body. Well, I mean, the skin may seem like a weird one, but I mean, it's such a giant organ. Yes. And it is sort of your walking billboard of your health in many ways. So it's very difficult to ignore it, but since it doesn't have the same path of physiology that maybe our organs do, but I would put money on the fact that there's not just a gut skin axis, there's a skin gut axis. So it's like the way that this thing that is the most visible and the most obvious is probably one of the things that we're ignoring the most because we view it as, well, this is just simply cosmetic or something like skin. Just like this meat suit that we're wearing is purely just for cosmetic and has no biological purpose whatsoever. But it was a Dom DiAgostino also said last week, it was really cool or two weeks ago. I was working out with him and he made a pretty bold statement. He was just like, I am now convinced that pretty much any, like the gut is any infectious response, anything, it can all come right back to the gut. He is basically saying that is it's like any or more so any compromised gut state of compromised gut health is directly ties to pretty much any, any illness or anything. So it's like basically your immune system really is starting there and it's not necessarily just the fact the literal immune system is there. It's a lot of questions that we don't have answers to, but it's much more like the lines are very clear. The lines are able to be drawn that this is where it begins. And you know, when you're stressed and it affects your gut and you get sick. Okay, what's not, it didn't just get sick because you're stressed. You got sick because your gut is inflamed and your gut is damaged because you were stressed. And that correlates with so much of the, you've all seen like the low back pain studies, right? That are directly correlated with high periods of stress, right? Okay. Well, now we can maybe triangulate that a little bit more. Those periods of stress, low back pain flare ups is that much more related to a gut issue that came as a result of the stress and the sort of preemptive like inflammatory response that came from the stress that queued you up, you know, from a gut perspective, set the stage for you to throw out your back. That's exactly it. And I'll give you one more example. We've been working with a lab in Japan and so much of your systemic inflammation starts from your gut. These guys have developed a new protocol and we support with devices with laser therapy devices called the proximal priority therapy. And their theory was that infertility starts from your gut as well. So back pain is a great one. But if you're looking at female health, not just infertility, but you know, I think they started with endometriosis, which is a really heavily kind of inflammation mediated. My wife has it. So yeah. And we use the device since we see people go from an eight out of 10 to a two out of 10 within 30 minutes. It's so impactful for being able to do this. And there's no good pharmaceutical approach to this yet. And it's crazy because this affects a huge number of women. Drift or uterus out. You know, it's like she doesn't have a uterus because of it. It's like that's the default. It's like, yeah, it's crazy. Like it's so unfortunate. The aggressive stance for surgery and pharmaceuticals when there are preventative measures that you can take. But the Japanese lab, they did their first study and not treating uterine tissue at all. Treating the largest blood vessels in your neck and treating the gut. And their theory was we can reduce systemic inflammation and systemic inflammation is a cause for this infertility. Not the only causes multivariate. And what they saw was with 229 women, they saw over 27% of the women who hadn't been able to get pregnant for minimum of five years get pregnant as part of this trial. And then 22% carried through to a healthy delivery. The second trial was over 400 women and we modulated the treatment characteristics, the optical treatment characteristics, and it went up to over 40%. So there's absolutely an impact from your gut to so many different systems and it's inflammation mediated, I think is the key for this. Your gut is the center of your health or it's the center of your disease and your pathologies. That's wild. So when you think about it from, you know, even an autoimmune perspective, would you say the same thing that much of this is? Absolutely. Yes. With this right now again, so many of these autoimmune and immune, I think you nailed it. So much of it is so complex and so multivariate that we have to look at inputs and we have to look at kind of health outcomes versus looking at kind of the mediating factors, which is a little bit frustrating from a kind of a science and kind of research standpoint, but it still means that it can actually impact people's lives. That's what we're here to do. So when you see impacts and reductions in, you know, the long term from treating the gut, when you kind of, when you look at asthma, when you look at multiple sclerosis and you see these outcomes being impacted substantially, you know, really, really meaningful impacts for people, it's frustrating because we're still at the front end of this, but it's really, if you, I live in an optimistic space and like for me, that's just great. There's more we can do to optimize this over time, but we're already making a powerful impact for people from the autoimmune response standpoint. It's just great. Yeah. I mean, when you look at how many of these autoimmune conditions are overlapping, like I guess it's the way to put it, right? It's like, when you start looking and, you know, started my wife, never mind if I mentioned this stuff, but it's like, I started with, you know, it was Hashimoto and then it was a, it's like these other options start finding like, usually when someone has one autoimmune condition, they have multiple. And you know, a lot of times it can be environmental, like her sister's type one diabetic, which is autoimmune, right? So you get these things that are like, wait a minute, and how many autoimmune conditions are there that don't have labels or don't have an actual official, like things that we just could never describe. It's like things that we can't, we don't have an ICD-9 or ICD-10 code for. It's just like an ailment that is, most doctors might tell you, you're crazy for experiencing because there's a lot of, well, I don't know, there's a lot of ICD-10 code for this, so it doesn't exist, but it's a very real thing and people are suffering and dealing with it. And a lot of times it's these weird overlapping autoimmune conditions that are just, if I could almost call it a swarm term, just like general inflammatory condition. Yes. That once this system is a little bit more regulated and you're not having a cataclysm of a cytokine storm happening, then things go into check or they go into remission, right? And there's environmental load or whatever comes back again and they all flare up and they just, you know, it's, you can't stop the environment once again, right? But you can stop or at least mitigate some of the, what's called the medium, right? Yes. And if you can make that like 40 to 50% impact on that mediator for it, then people also, they feel more energetic, they're able to go address the other causes and they feel like there's hope and it kind of helps them dig themselves out. I'm glad you brought up Hashimoto's. We actually, my business partner had Hashimoto's and we actually, we worked a couple of labs on different thyroid treatments and there's been, so Hashimoto's, there's a great protocol for using laser therapy plus vitamin D3 and selenium that are really impactful and work so well for so many people that we started looking into part of, I mentioned kind of the impacts on female health and endometriosis and a number of different things. This got us into a rabbit hole from a research and development standpoint. Many women in paraminopause and menopause have major thyroid issues and these are directly inflammation impacted. So if you can treat the thyroid, if you can supplement along with those, with those kind of adjunct supplements to be able to kind of add in and get a better outcome for it, these are huge life changing impacts for people where they see their weight start dropping, they start seeing their mood improve. There's really powerful impacts for this. And again, this is something where I think it's worth the note that there is a lot of research going towards male pathologies, erectile dysfunction, different things in the space that the amount of money going to solve this is insane with things like endometriosis and kind of paraminopause and menopause related thyroid issues and different things like this. There's just so much less money going to these problems and they're very real, very meaningful problems and they seem to be ignored to some degree. And again, I don't know why I don't know what the cause for that is, but we see the same thing around issues where there are, it's a harder one because it's multivariate, it's harder to solve. So this is things like kind of different pain syndromes. So fibromyalgia as an example, multivariate, really hard to go solve, seems to have a very strong inflammation impact as well. And so all of that to say that they're coming back to the core center of if you have tools to reduce inflammation, which we now do, let's start applying them to different areas where we see these multivariate issues, where we see gut based issues, where we see outcomes where people haven't been able to kind of drive a, because of the complexity of the problem, haven't been able to drive a perfect solution for it yet. Let's start testing around those. And again, it's very exciting and brings a lot of optimism to me to be a part of that and being able to get people out of these issues. Again, fertility is an amazing one, but also with things like these thyroid issues, the impact that that has on people's quality of life on a day to day standpoint is just, I think it's underestimated or under recognized maybe. Can you, I mean, I've got more of the devices right here. Can you explain a little bit about how, like, what you guys are doing with this? Because I'll link out to it down below. This thing is crazy. This, you know, essentially laser device. You guys are just pioneering a lot of really cool stuff with it and, you know, explain a little bit about it and like where people can find you guys as well. Absolutely. I think it's probably worth starting from our mission. We, before we even looked at the technology, we sat down and went through developing a mission that holds us accountable. And it is to increase the quality of life for the largest number of people we can in the most measurable way we can. And photo by a modulation or light therapy had been particularly laser therapy because it allows you to dose more effectively internal tissue in the body had been at an amazing use an amazing level in laboratories and in clinics. But it was $30,000 to $50,000 to get a good device for this. And we felt that if someone could take this home and instead of being in the clinic once a week using amazing device, how do we get layers on people for less than $500 so they can do this at home every day and really see the ongoing additive impacts of this, particularly relative to inflammation. And we had to go customize custom design lasers to get everything down to the right price, but it's been really amazing to see the journey of all of the users. We've got over 60,000 devices out in the wild and there's not a day that goes by. And it's really important and motivating for us as a mission driven team that we see someone whose life this is changing. And it's just such a powerful kind of journey we've been on as a part of that. But yeah, they can find us at Kenyon, k-i-n-e-o-n dot i-o. But these are essentially clinical level $30,000 devices that we found a way to make wearable, travel friendly and easy to use at home and inhabit stacking. And I think that's the key is you really want to... These are long term stacking efforts to reduce the inflammation where you see better and better results the longer you can use it, the more consistency you can have with your use. And when you can make it wearable so that you can... You're driving into work, you're doing your meditation, you're doing your breath work. You don't have to hold anything anywhere, you don't have to focus on it. You can just put it on, let it do what it does and build a habit that you do every day and see the benefits of that. So we publish a lot of good blogs on what people can expect and the outcomes they can expect and then what's driving that on our website. So come in and check us out and learn a little bit more about it. And yeah, try it as 30 a day for free. We don't want to sell products, we want to meet our mission of changing people's lives and we will never force anybody to keep a device that they don't see the results from and we're on a lot of calls for making sure that people are using it in the right way with the right protocols to get the right results out of it. Good stuff, man. We'll link out to a special discount link down below as well. Yeah, forced. That's all I've got. Thanks, man.

=== FILE: This New Keto Study is Frightening People [yClP0-_2yAo].txt ===

 I think it would be wise to pump the brakes on keto until we evaluate this study in detail. So let's do just that. There's a new study on the safety of long-term keto that's getting a lot of attention, and honestly, some of the findings are actually quite concerning at first glance. Severe increases in cholesterol, we're talking liver dysfunction and a complete collapse of insulin secretion, but there's a really important thing that isn't really getting looked at, and that's that the study used a very extreme version of keto that almost nobody would ever follow. We'll explain about that, but understanding why it showed these negative effects in this study can actually teach us how to use keto correctly. So it's actually going to teach us how to do things better. So what we're going to talk about, we're going to talk about what they actually did in this study, because the protocol matters a ton. It's not just this blanket keto, okay? We need to understand the actual protocol. And then secondly, I'll break down the three major problems that they found. They found the lipid issues, the severe liver dysfunction, and the insulin secretion collapse, which is hugely problematic. That's like causing insulin resistance. Then third, I'll show you how to avoid these issues entirely by using keto the right way, including when to cycle carbs back in and how to monitor your response. Let's dive in first with the study design. This is where things, the picture gets painted, okay? So first off, this is a study that was published looking at mice, okay? So four different diets for anywhere from 36 to 44 weeks, which in mouse metabolic time is comparable to years in humans. So it is a long tail study. They had a low fat diet with 10% fat and 70% carbs, a protein matched low fat diet with 10% fat and 80% carbs, a high fat diet with 60% fat, and then a ketogenic diet. But here's a really important piece that isn't getting talked about on social media. The keto diet in this case was 89.9% fat. It was 10% protein and 0.1% carbohydrate. Again, 0.1% carbohydrate. That is beyond a traditional ketogenic protocol. For context, the most extreme therapeutic keto diets in humans are still like maybe 60 to 75% fat and 5 to 10% carbs and like 15 to 30% protein. And that's if you're like epileptic doing therapeutic ketogenic diets. This study was using almost zero carbs, which isn't the end of the world. Lots of people do carnivore and things like that where they're close to that. But they're doing this for years without a break in a very low protein situation too. So just basically pure fat. All the diets were ad-limited, meaning the mice could eat as much as they wanted, which isn't really applicable to humans most of the time anyway. Let's start with the body weight and composition piece though. The keto diet prevented weight gain actually compared to the high fat diet, but surprisingly not compared to the low fat diets. So part of it was explained by calories though. The high fat diet mice ate the most. Keto was pretty balanced and intermediate and the low fat diets ended up eating the least overall calories. So the takeaway is that fat isn't bad, but it's that calories still do matter even in the context of keto to a degree. But especially in a high fat non-keto diet. But things got really interesting when we looked at the lipid profiles. Keto ended up causing what they called severe dyslipidemia. Triglycerides were 1.7 times higher than the high fat diet group and non-estrified fatty acids, which is a big component of triglycerides, were up to 2.75 times higher. Cholesterol increased to a similar extent as it did in the high fat group. So that wasn't as big of an immediate concern. But either way, like on the surface, that looks really terrible. That doesn't look good. Now mechanisms make a big difference here though, because what's happening is that with almost zero insulin and extremely high fat intake, you're going to get poor what's called lipid clearance. So this isn't like a typical obesity driven pathology. It's more of like a lipid traffic jam where you're just having fats piling on top of each other with nowhere to go. The body can't store the fat because there's very little insulin signaling or no insulin signaling. So the fats just pile up in the plasma and the liver, which brings us to its effect on the liver because this was wild, the liver health stuff. It was not good. The keto diet actually induced liver statuses, which is fatty liver, and caused some overall dysfunction in the liver. But only in males. The female mice actually didn't have a bunch of fat accumulation in the liver. They didn't have elevated liver triglycerides. They actually didn't even increase their liver enzymes like ALT. In males though, the liver showed a bunch of fat accumulation, elevated triglycerides, elevated enzymes like ALT, and the gene expression patterns that looked identical to the high fat diet group. So they had fatty liver, statosis, they had fibrosis, and they had inflammation. Again, they're mice, but still it makes us question things. And again, it's likely due to the lipid overflow from near zero insulin combined with a ridiculously high fat intake. The liver just can't process it all. So it tends to accumulate. Now, the glucose regulation piece was very interesting too because this is where things kind of get flipped on their heads. Like in the early weeks, when they're in this study, like four to six weeks, the keto diet actually lowered the fasting post meal glucose levels, which is great. We love to see that. But then as they looked longer at like 11 to 33 weeks, fasting glucose increased to high fat diet levels. And the glucose tolerance got progressively worse. In fact, it got worse in the high fat diet group. And mind you, that high fat diet group is high fat and still moderate carb. The conclusion that the researchers drew was that the longer you stay on this version of keto, the worse your glucose tolerance gets. Now, we have seen in other studies that that can be reversed in a short time. But it was still interesting because they found that the keto mice actually remained insulin sensitive. So that's a twist, right? The problem wasn't actually the insulin resistance. It was actually insulin secretion. So in insulin tolerance tests, the keto mice responded normally to insulin. But when they were given glucose, their insulin levels barely rose, which kind of sounds good until you realize you need insulin, right? So in the high fat diet group, there was hyperinsulinemia in the low fat groups, you saw pretty normal insulin release. And in the keto group, there was almost no insulin increase after glucose. You can see why that's problematic, nothing to bring the glucose down. So they even did what's called a hyperglycemic clamp test. They found that insulin levels didn't rise until around 90 minutes after eating, so massively, massively delayed. And what this reflects is essentially a total collapse in the first phase of insulin secretion. So if we dig deeper with this, they looked at what are called beta cells, and they isolated these beta cells. These are the cells that are in the pancreas, the secret insulin. They confirmed that keto islet cells secreted around one third the insulin of low fat diet islet cells. So the insulin secretion machinery itself ended up broken. So they went deeper to understand why and what's happening here. And they use what's called RNA sequencing. And with this, they found an increase in endoplasmic reticulum stress, which just means that cells can't properly fold and process proteins, which is critical for just repair, right? And using something that's called electron microscopy, they also saw structural damage to the Golgi apparatus, and in English, essentially what that is is like our beta cells produce insulin and they have like a production line when they produce insulin. So the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi are like these factories that process and package insulin to get ready to leave the warehouse. So the keto diet was breaking down that production line at a very cellular level, and the machinery itself was damaged. So we were unable to actually let the insulin packages leave the warehouse. The keto diet was literally impairing insulin secretion by breaking down the endoplasmic reticulum and just the whole traffic system, the assembly line there. The good news is, and this is the part that like people that are anti keto aren't really talking about, is that this is reversible and it was reversible. Okay, when long term keto mice were switched to a low fat diet for four weeks, glucose tolerance returned to normal and insulin secretion recovered. So it doesn't mean that keto is bad. It means that you're having a severe adaptation and the type of keto you do really matters. So it suggests that the beta cell defect is not permanent. It's an adaptive state that can be reversed when the diet environment changes, right? So let's talk about what this means for us humans, okay, because we have to switch things up a little bit. But I don't think people are doing this high level of fat, but we should adopt some things. So if we look at it, this was a very extreme version of keto, right, almost 90% fat, 0.1% carbs and 10% protein eating as much as you want for the metabolic equivalent of years. That's nothing like a typical human keto diet. Imagine just basically eating coconut oil for three years. I mean, really, that's kind of what this was like. That's not exactly practical. So we're going to get into the specifics, like I want to share like things that you can do, things that you can, and it's really important. So we're going to submit it, we're going to talk about how you change up your keto diet, what it might want to look like now in 2026 based on some of this evidence, right? I also put a link down below for a company called Thrive Market. If you want to try getting some healthier keto protein options, Thrive Market is an online membership based grocery store, makes it super simple. They're a sponsor on this channel, they have been for years, but it also applies directly with what we're talking about here, because you can log in to Thrive and you can sort by keto, and you can sort by like all different kinds of things you sort by gluten free, you can sort by this, and they don't have like garbage nutrients coming in, they vet all of their products. So they turn away thousands of different products, including thousands of keto products that have garbage in them, preservatives, I guess, because that exists. So if you're looking for like good meat sticks or good jerky or good sardines, like Thrive has these even for people that don't have access to higher quality food, because maybe they're living somewhere that's hard to get it. That is a 30% off discount link for your entire first grocery order and a free $60 gift. So it's a good time to just, hey, I'm going to jump on it, I want to give this stuff a shot, I want to load up my grocery cart and get 30% off. So that link is down below, it's in the top one of the description. We need to understand mice though, these spreat of mice that they were using, they're specifically used as an obesity and diabetes model, because they are more genetically prone to diet induced obesity. They're also more prone to liver fat, and they're also more prone to, hey, guess what beta cell stress, so specifically under high fat conditions. So they have a very different metabolic rate, they have different feeding patterns and different like pancreatic resilience compared to humans, it's wildly different. Then thirdly, 36 to 44 weeks in mice, like we talked about, that's the years in humans. So most humans use keto for months, or maybe for a year or two, but they'll take breaks or they'll at least have adequate protein, not for what amounts to multiple years without a break with very little protein. Unless you're maybe someone that is epileptic and has to be on keto to not have seizures, then it's a trade off that maybe you're willing to take to be like super high fat, but even then, not this high fat. And also the add limit to nature of these diets that were in the study don't isolate the effects of the diet itself. Humans tend to use keto with energy restriction. In fact, if you look at the studies, most people on keto are still in a deficit because the appetite goes down. You're not unlimited eating, but despite these limitations, the study still teaches us that we should really use keto correctly so that we don't run into these issues, even in the short term, because a lipid traffic jam happens because of near zero insulin, combined with massive fat intake and protein produces insulin still. It still causes a secretion of insulin rather. So a more reasonable carbon take, like even 20 to 50 grams per day and maybe like more like 25 to 50% protein would cause adequate insulin release where you wouldn't develop this issue. And the liver dysfunction happened because of the lipid overflow. So using a balance of saturated fats alongside different like monolens saturated fats and polyunsaturated fats, all of oil, fatty fish, and those good types of fats, like a hierarchy of different fats rather than extreme fat loading would reduce the risk. And in the insulin secretion, that collapse happened because beta cells barely saw glucose or even protein for months. So with fatty acids and ketones as that primary fuel source with nothing else, there was no glycemic challenge. There was no reason to produce insulin. So the system adapted by deprioritizing any kind of carbohydrate handling. And this was totally reversible. It wasn't permanent beta cell death. So if you're doing keto, here's what we need to change. Here's what we need to make sure we are doing to not run into these issues. First, make sure your keto diet is adequate and protein. Okay, this mouse diet was 10% protein, which is stupidly low. Okay, humans should aim for, I would say at least 30% protein on a ketogenic diet. Okay, to preserve your lean mass and support the metabolic function at least 30%. And unless you were doing like a strict carnivore for specific reason, I wouldn't go zero carb, like 20 to 50 grams per day from some fibers and from things like that, that's going to prevent that extreme lipid overflow just by slowing things down a little bit. So like even non-starchy vegetables, okay, consider like some psyllium, consider a little bit of like chia, okay, it's good for your gut health and lipid metabolism anyway. And then third, the fat quality matters. There's a balance of saturated fats alongside modeling saturated fats and polyunsaturated fats that is really good and much better than just extreme saturated fat loading. I'm all for saturated fat, but we do need to look at fats as a whole system. They should think olive oil, avocados, nuts, fatty fish, along with butter and coconut oil. And then fourth, I've never been a fan of saying it's strict keto forever. Use it cyclically, even if it's a year and then a few months off, okay, years without a break, that can be stressful, that is stressful. So periodic carb refeeds with healthy fruit, healthy carbs, cycling between keto and low to moderate carb, or targeted carbs around training, all this will prevent that beta cell adaptation that you see in this like long term ridiculous keto. You also need to monitor your response or track your lipids, track your liver enzymes, track your fasting glucose, track how you feel, it's all good. Like if you see triglycerides climbing and you see your liver enzymes rising or your glucose tolerance worsening, these are signals that you need to maybe reintroduce carbs surrounding your workouts or something like that. The main point is that you need to use keto to restore metabolic flexibility, not replace it. We are not a one, we become a one trick pony, rather. This mouse studies show that impaired glucose tolerance happened because the animals lost their ability to handle carbs. Okay, but human studies generally show the opposite, because we have improvements in insulin sensitivity, we have reduced reliance on medication, and in some cases, even full remission of type two diabetes. In fact, there was a study in nutrition metabolism that compared a low carb keto diet to a low glycemic index diet in grownups, I'm telling you, talking to kids with type two diabetes for 24 weeks. So the keto group in this case aimed for 20 grams of carbs per day with no calorie restriction, while the low glycemic index group followed 500 calorie deficit and low GI carbs. In this case, the keto group actually saw a 1.5% drop in their HbA1c and there was only a half a percent drop in the low GI group, and they lost 11.1 kilograms compared to 6.9 kilograms, almost double. Okay, and many of the participants in the keto group were able to either reduce or discontinue their diabetes medications. So keto works in humans, but it's done right. The difference is the protocol. So 20 grams of carbs per day for 24 weeks is not the same as 0.1% carbs for years and years and years, also in humans, not in mice. Okay, keto is a tool to improve the body's ability to switch fuels. I don't believe it should be this permanent metabolic state unless it's otherwise needed. So we use it strategically, we cycle it appropriately, and you monitor your response. So if you want to understand how to reintroduce carbs properly and do this right, I've done videos on this. I did a video on carb cycling strategies. It walks through exactly how to time carbs around training, around circadian rhythms. So you really can get kind of the best of both worlds. And I'll link to that video right here, because I think that's a great next step to watch to fully educate yourself on this. So as always, keep it locked here. I'll see you tomorrow.

=== FILE: This Strategy Shrinks Fat Cells if You’re Over 40 (targets old fat cells) [kRFZuOPaYiw].txt ===

 as we get older, we lose our thermogenic fat. It is called the whitening of fat. Basically, our fat loses mitochondrial function. Now, remember when you were born? Remember what that felt like? That's creepy. Now, think about a baby for a second. When a baby is born, they don't shiver, but they have a lot of brown fat, and that allows them to keep warm without shivering, non-shivering thermogenesis. So, brown fat for a baby is super important. Now, as we get older, we develop more and more mitochondrial DNA mutations. So basically, our cells, just to make it very simple, just become more and more mutated and more messed up and less efficient. In a beautiful little baby, they sip on their milk, and that milk, those calories go through these uncoupling proteins, and they go through that mitochondria, and they dissipate as heat, and baby is warm. And then we get older, and our things mutate, and we do not create energy as efficiently, so therefore, we lose thermogenic potential. And what happens is the brown fat that was so good at allowing us to burn fuel as heat now gets worse, and it's not so good at it. And we have less brown fat, and less brown fat, and less brown fat, and more white fat, and white fat, and white fat, meaning we have a lower resting energy expenditure. We have a lower metabolic rate. We are slower, and our metabolism slows down. But more important than just that, we lose the mitochondrial metabolic health benefits of it. Let's take a look at a study that was published in Cell Metabolism. This looked at mice because a lot of brown fat research is done in mice, because mice have a lot of brown fat. It's critical to their survival, really. So what they did is they took mice, and they mutated the PTM genes so that they would have basically more brown fat. And then what they did is they deleted growth hormone receptors. So these mice were not acted upon by growth hormone, which means they started living really long times. So growth hormone eventually can cause us to die. Eventually, it's parsed. It's not a cause of death, but it's part of the aging process. There's so much pro-growth in the wrong way, right? So if you stop the effects of growth hormone in a mouse, they're gonna live longer. However, when they remove the chunk of brown fat in their scapula, the longevity effects of deleting growth hormone went away. What that means is that brown fat was critical to the longevity aspect of these mice. Brown fat is super, super interesting because it's a metabolic sink, right? And don't worry, in this video, I'm gonna talk about how we increase this, or how we prevent the loss of it. Basically, when brown fat is active in your body, it helps you burn glucose, it helps you burn fat. It can actually, based on newer literature, even help collect toxic byproducts and metabolic waste. It is a very important thing. So as we get older and we lose the function of this brown fat, we lose these things. Now there's another aspect of this called a badokines. Sounds really funny. You ever heard of a cytokine or a cytokine, potato-potato? That is inflammation related. Have you heard of adipokine or adipokine? That is something that is secreted by fat to act upon various cells. There's things called a myokine, or a myokine, getting potato-potato. A myokine is secreted by the muscle. There's even things called exerkeins that are secreted during exercise. And these are signals that are secreted by tissues to act upon various cells. Now, badokines stands for brown adipose tissue, okines, right? So these are compounds that are secreted by brown adipose tissue. One of them, and I know this sounds super scientific, is called FGF 21. FGF 21 is famous. People talk about it a lot. FGF 21 increases resting energy expenditure, increases your metabolism. It increases your ability to incinerate and utilize carbs. It increases mitochondrial respiration, your ability to create energy. It inhibits mTOR, it increases autophagy. It's a very pro-longivity, pro-energy pro-life. It is secreted by brown fat. And as we get older, we secrete less and less of it because we have less and less brown fat as we get older. Now, in addition to that, we also lose receptors for it. So it just circulates in the bloodstream, creates a negative feedback loop, and we no longer produce it. And as we get older, we have less and less and less of this amazing badokine called FGF 21 that could quite honestly keep us youthful and energetic. So how do we prevent this from happening? The first one that I have to address is one that is concrete, very strong literature, and that is a specific type of cold exposure. Check this out. It was published in the journal Clinical Investigation. They had subjects immerse themselves in 60 degree temperatures, nothing crazy, 60 degree temperatures for six hours a day for 10 days. This alone in humans not only increased the activity of the currently existing brown adipose tissue on them, but it actually encouraged the turning of white fat back into brown fat. This is real folks, this can happen. And unfortunately, it does not happen when you sit in your cold tub. That's not when this happens. This happens by enduring moderately cold temperatures for a few hours a day, but you don't have to do it forever. This is one of the most profound, biggest levers that you can pull, but it's wildly uncomfortable. Now, one that's a little more comfortable, you can sit on significant amounts of green tea. There was a study that was published in Obesity in 2023, it was actually a good size study. It found that the catechins in green tea, as well as the polyphenols, increased not only activation, but also the browning of white fat. Now we've known that green tea is a huge metabolic, I don't know, godsend for a long time. Preserves muscle, increases fat oxidation, polyphenols. It's awesome, you name it. But the catechins seem to have a direct impact on brown fat. So two to five cups of green tea per day, regular size, eight ounce cups is outstanding. There was also a study, I can't remember where it was published, I was looking at Japanese people, huge, huge amount of literature. It's like, I think it was like 40,000 plus people. Those that consumed five or more cups of green tea per day had a significantly longer life expectancy. So there's a myriad of different benefits as to why green tea is important. It's hugely beneficial. After today's video, I put a link down below for Thrive Market. That is a 30% off discount link. So it gets you 30% off whatever you load up in your grocery cart, and then it gets delivered to your doorstep. So it's 30% off whether you want snacks, whether you want meat, whether you want whatever. So you load up your grocery cart, use that special link, and then it gets delivered to your doorstep. And there's also a free $60 gift that you get as well when you use that special link down below. Thrive Market has been a sponsor for over half a decade on this channel. So if you support them, then you directly support this channel and it helps us continue to do what we do. Plus, you're getting totally bang up savings on all your groceries. So use that link in the top line of description underneath this video. Now additionally, speaking of that, training or working out or exercising in general is one of the best ways to induce more brown fat. There's a study published in Frontiers and Physiology three times per week for 12 weeks at 70 to 80% max heart rate, simple biker gometer, increase brown adipose tissue, not only activation, but also the browning of white fat. They noticed that there was an increase in what's called uncoupling protein one by 100% in the white adipose tissue. So if you took regular white fat that normally doesn't do a whole lot in the body, I'd then just sit there and be a storage form of fat pretty much. All of a sudden this white fat was becoming metabolically active and developing mitochondria. So it's like when you exercise, yeah, you burn fat, but you also change the fat that you do have. And if you can make your fat metabolically active rather than just an appendage that's hanging out on you for a rainy day, that is huge. So that is where the exercise part plays a role. And it doesn't have to be immense, but it does have to be relatively intense. So 70, 80% of your maximum heart rate for 20 to 40 sustained minutes or do intervals, but do that a few times per week. Next up, training or being in a depleted state. Now I would say fasting, fasting has huge benefits when it comes down to brown fat. It definitely does, but fasting, all that really is, putting a time clock on when you don't eat. I say let yourself get depleted. So by depleted, it could just mean skipping dinner one day and then maybe training in the morning in a somewhat fasted state. That could be tremendously beneficial. The more depleted you are, the more you're going to phosphorylate AMPK and the more you're gonna activate some of these process. The more you activate and phosphorylate, what's called AMPK, the more likely you are to increase your brown adipose tissue and rekindle this whole thing. There's also extremely interesting evidence, at least in vitro, with capsaicin and other spicy foods. Capsaicin might actually increase the browning of white fat. We're seeing this happen in vitro. So it might be something a little bit more regular, but what's interesting is when you look, even epidemiologically, you look like different cultures that consume spicier foods. Funny enough, seem to have better metabolic health, which more literature needs to be polished and we need to do a lot more research to take that to the bank, but it's kind of funny. It's like you look at some of these countries that eat spicy foods, there are risks of death that are coming from other types of things, not the metabolic dysfunction that we're dealing with much more in the United States or parts of Europe or wherever, right? So all of these things seem to add up. One of the best things that you can do is if you're watching this video and you're in your 30s or you're in your 40s, put on as much muscle mass as you can now, because we don't look at sarcopenia as a disease, but we should. It is a real disease. As a matter of fact, it's responsible for a lot of money spent in the healthcare system. People lose muscle and then they fall down and then they break their hip and they go into the hospital and it ends up becoming this massive system and a mess. Because we're so busy looking at cancer and diabetes, heart disease, but we forget that sarcopenia plagues a lot of people. And if you can build the muscle beforehand, you could have the metabolic mitochondrial sync that gives you the metabolic function to maintain your brown fat tissues, to maintain your activity, to maintain a healthy lifestyle in general, all the things that prevent the metabolic slowdown and the belly fat accumulation from happening in the first place. I'll see you tomorrow.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.454254Z ===
