The days of protein powder being simple are over. There are so many ingredients in different protein powders, and Walmart has a pretty epic selection of protein powders. So, we're going to head in there. We're going to break down which ones are worth getting and which ones are worth possibly just completely throwing to the side. Then, we're also going to break down some of the preworkouts. We're going to break down some of the post-workout, some of the amino acids, some of the electrolytes, so you're gonna have an idea of what is good surrounding the entirety of workout performance and post-workout nutrition here at Walmart. Let's go ahead and break down some protein powders. All right, go to the pharmacy. Sports supplements, vitamins, everything is always in the pharmacy. It's cool. They used to not have a lot of stuff. Walmart used to be a little bit kind of weird with what you would find in the way of sports supplements, in the way of vitamins, all that stuff. Over the last, I'd say 18 months, 2 years, it's really just really turned the tide. Like, it's been a completely different ballgame with what they have available now. All right, so let's go take a look at what we have here in the way of protein powders first. They have a good selection here. It's minimal, but the ones that they do have are pretty good. So, the first thing that comes to eye is I want to take a look at, let's see, grass-fed whey, cuz that catches my eye cuz I'm always into grass-fed, right? That's going to usually be a good thing. This is from Muscle Tech. And eh, I don't know. But there we go. First thing we have listed, whey protein concentrate. When you want whey protein, you want whey protein isolate. Okay, it means that the whey protein is isolated away from all the rest of the dairy, all the other milk ingredients. Whey protein concentrate. Although it can have a delicious flavor, it is not the isolated protein. So, you end up with a lot of other garbage. Look at how many carbs are in this. Okay, nine grams of carbs, but also malttodextrin. Okay, natural flavors, which we don't want. Uh, guar gum, not a huge deal. Sunflower lein is not a huge deal either. It's usually just to kind of keep it from clumping and stuff. So, you're going to see that a lot. Okay. So, this one does not make the cut. So, even though it's grass-fed, it's not isolated. So, we got to be careful there. Okay. Uh, and then we have Body Fortress. Let's see. This is going to be a super advanced isolate protein which is much better because it's isolate triphase isolate matrix. Okay, so we have milk protein isolate or whey protein isolate, milk protein isolate and then soy protein isolate. Why? Okay, so clearly you put soy protein in something because it adds more bulk in the way of protein. This was on an okay track. But then the other thing that I do have in there is we have not only sucralose but we have asulfane potassium which is asulfane potassium is one of the worst sweeteners you could have. So when you're looking at protein powders you really should be careful of as sulfate potassium because it spikes your insulin aggressively through what is called a sephilic insulin response. That means it's so sweet it activates your pancreas to produce insulin. You don't necessarily want that especially when you're doing a super low carb protocol. Um, I want to jump over here really quick. Muscle milk is a different kind of protein. So, muscle milk is not something you would have post-workout. It's a slow digesting protein that's mainly like a caseinate blend. But take a look. Wo, look at the ingredients there. Whey protein concentrate, milk protein isolate. Then we got isolto oligosaccharides, soluble vegetable powder, which sounds really bad, but it's actually not that bad. alls that isomaltto oligosaccharides are are going to be like indigestible uh fibers. So it sounds terrible but it's actually quite good for you. It just doesn't necessarily work in line with a protein powder. Then we have non-dairy creamer, sunflower oil. So super omega6 profile there. Calcium caseinate, sodium caseinate, mono and diglycerides, malttodextrin, sodium caseinate, canola oil. Okay, this is no. I mean, it's a it's basically a meal replacement, but you're better off to take a whey protein isolate and add a scoop of coconut oil into it to make it a meal replacement rather than that. So, that sketches me out a little bit. Um, let's jump over to this one. Okay, I've talked about Isopir on my channel before and I don't want to make this sound super contrived. I mean, yes, they are a supporter on this channel and they are a sponsor. So, I'm careful not to sound contrived with that, but I also have to be realistic when I say this is going to be the best option that you're going to have at Walmart because look, two ingredients, whey protein isolate and soy leithin, which they're using as just again so it doesn't clump. And the soy leithin you're not getting. Sure, could you use something a little bit better? You probably could like maybe sunflower leithin, but you're splitting hairs because the leithin doesn't contain the oils. Okay, look at zero grams of fat. So, you're not getting any of the omega sixes you would get from soy. So, whey protein isolate, zero g of carbs, zero sugar, zero fat. I mean, it is nothing but pure whey protein isolate and 20 bucks at Walmart. Okay, so 25 g of protein per serving. Hands down. I mean, without fail, this is the best find at Walmart. I'll go ahead and I'll put a link down below so you can use a store locator. And a big thank you to Isopure for also supporting this channel in various videos. Super awesome. So, I'll put a link down below, but you can obviously find them at Walmart. Um, they have a creamy vanilla one. This is one if you're interested in one that has a little bit more like extra stuff. This has got a whey protein isolate plus it's got a vitamin and mineral blend. So, instead of just the pure protein like this is pure pure one is really good for like baking and things like that and also just unflavored. This one does have sucralose in it. Um, so it does have a couple of things in there to give it more flavor and stuff. So if you're looking for something that's more of a creamy sweet one, you're not as concerned about other things that are in it. Still in the grand scheme of things, going to be the cleaner protein here by all means, but this is the one that I lean into because it is so awesome. Okay, no dyes, nothing. Just amazing stuff. Um, now let's jump over into Well, let's take a look at this. So we've got Datizes ISO 100, which could be considered like a competitor, but we have some issues there. Okay, we have hydrayzeed whey protein isolate. Whey protein isolate, natural and artificial flavors. Okay, edible glitter, all these different food colorings plus sucralose. Okay, that clearly doesn't make the cut. Let's go pee protein for a second cuz there's some good plant-based proteins here. So, whey protein, just so you have an idea, just so you kind of know the context here, whey protein is going to absorb very, very fast. Okay, I usually have a pea protein unless I am looking for a very quick absorption post-workout, anything like that, in which case I'll use a whey isolate. Pa protein for me, I like as like a meal replacement. So, I use them both. This one, let's see. Vega, pea protein, cocoa powder, pea starch, natural flavor, spinach. Okay, a lot of interesting stuff in there. Um, actually pretty clean, candidly. Pea protein, pea starch. So, it does have some pea starches in there which elevate the carb content a little bit. Um, but I don't see any broccoli powder. I see Satcha inchi protein. That's a nice protein. But this is actually a good plant-based blend. If you're looking for a plant-based one, that Vega one's not bad. I'm not going to spare the details on the vanilla cuz it's probably the same. This one, if you're getting a collagen protein, this what I love about this vital proteins. Now, it's pricey. $42.98. Okay. But we have one ingredient. I mean you it's literally that's it. Collagen peptides. A 20 gram scoop or two scoops. 20 grams of collagen peptides. Okay. This is vital proteins. Very very good value when it comes down to it. But remember that collagen protein is not a complete protein. Okay? So you're not using that in place of protein. You're using it in adjunct to in addition to to get more you know hair, skin, nail stuff like that. U there's also a lot of gut benefit and stuff there. Okay. Then we have organ organic protein. Let's see. This is a plant-based one here. Uh pea protein, brown rice protein, chia seed, creamer base, acacia, hyleic sunflower oil, rice dextrin, uh rosemary, arythril. Uh okay, so we're kind of getting into this. Okay, no sucralose. I appreciate that. Uh but there is arythrtol in there, which in a protein powder might give you a little bit of gastric upset. So, if it was between these two for the protein powders, I would go with the Vega over the organ. It just would be a little bit better there. Okay. Then we have collagen peptides, excuse me, from Purely Inspired versus the Vital Protein. So, this one's cheaper. 1997. And what do we have here? Hydrogen collagen peptides and silicone dioxide. That's it. So, pretty pretty good. you know, silicon dioxide, like silica is something that is perfectly fine. Okay, so silicon dioxide you could say that's super artificial, but you know, I think vital proteins is pure, but if you're on a super budget, this is half the price or less than half the price. So, I mean, there is a point to this. So, if you're really trying to like go for value here, this one makes sense. Okay, I would definitely say that. Uh, then we have this organic protein. Let's see what this one is. Purely inspired. again, organic protein. This one is wo pea protein, brown rice protein, coconut creamer, rice syrup, solves. So, when I'm looking at protein powders, um, brown rice protein is a relatively low quality protein in my opinion. I usually want to see like pea protein combined with hemp. Uh, just because it's going to when you get pea protein, you typically want hemp protein along with it because Pa protein lacks what is called methionine. It's one of the sulfur aminos and those sulfur aminos are important for muscle building and for repair. So, when you combine pea protein with rice protein, you're not necessarily getting that. Okay, there's a loud radio behind me, so I'm sorry about that. This is reality. Point is is that that sulfur protein or the sulfur amino methanine, you're going to get out of hemp. So, just be wary of that. So, we've knocked out the proteins. Um, let's go ahead and let's take a look at some of these other sports supplements that are here. In this case, we have 100% creatine. This is great. Like right here, it's five grams of creatine, pure creatine, nothing else in there. Creatine is not a bad supplement. Creatine, I think, is great whether you are doing keto, whether you are fasting, whether you are doing anything. It's just a phenomenal supplement. And you don't need to be taking it in a full 5 g amount. Okay, a neutropic dose would be like two 2 1/2 grams. So, a half a scoop of this. And this value, let's see, six-star. It's just protein. I mean, excuse me, just creatine, unflavored, and it's only $9.97. Okay, so very inexpensive. One of the best bang for the buck supplements that you can get in terms of just performance. Um, okay. People ask a lot about hydroxy cut. Let's take a look at what's in some of these fat loss supplements here. Okay, we have caffeine, 270 milligs of caffeine. We have theine, cayenne pepper, then we have green coffee extract, and yohimi, which is different from yohim bean. Uh, yohimi extract is going to get you a small amount of yohim bean. If you wanted pure yohimine, you would want to get what is called yohimine HCL. Yohimine HCl. Yohimi is going to supply a negligible amount of yohimi. Uh yohimine, excuse me. Yohimi is going to supply a negligible amount of yohimine. Then it's got tyrrosine, methionine, leucine, and transferic acid. So basically like a muscle preservation blend. Long story short, this does not have anything valuable in it. It is basically just it's basically just caffeine. like you might as well just have a cup of green tea and a caffeine pill for a fraction of the dollars, right? So, Hydroxy has been around for a long time. Negenics, uh, this is a tea booster. Wow. They charge $40 for vitamin B6 for zinc. I And only 1 milligram of zinc, too. You need like 50 milligs of zinc to be able to actually have the benefit. But then we have uh citrine melee, which is just improving blood flow. So, for guys, you know what I'm getting at with that, right? That's why they got it. Finugreek and tribulus are powerful at testosterone boosting, but if you're going to get tribulus and finugreek, just get them on Amazon for like $3. This seems very pricey. Um, this other fat burner here, very similar ingredients to hydroxy cut for $10 less. So, here's the deal. I don't want to spend a lot of time with fat burners because although fat burners have some merit, I just don't think that they're really going to solve the problem for you. So, let's just kind of forget that. I don't think it's a huge deal. Let's jump into some aminos for a second. BPI Sports has BCAAs. All right, I see a lot of BCAAs, branch chain amino acids here, but I don't see the ones that I think are the most important, which are called essential amino acids. Branch chain amino acids, you're only getting the benefit of leucine. Okay? And leucine is very muscle sparing. But essential amino acids are going to be all the amino acids that are essential for muscle rebuilding and tissue repair. branch chain amino acids. You get leucine, isolucine, and veene. And isolucine and vein are two amino acids that don't do a whole lot for you. I am surprised that we still have a lot of BCAAs on the market when in reality EAAs are the ones that are going to be better. So, I would say any of these BCAAs, just don't bother. They're not going to save your muscle and they're not going to preserve you. It's not worth it. Go and get yourself some EAS. It's just going to be better. But here we have one that is essential amino acids plus electrolyte. See essential amino instead of branching amino acid. Look at this. Look at the amino acid blend here. Okay, that's what the label looks like. Okay, we have all the aminos that we need that are essential. Plus, it has a nice electrolyte blend. Okay, granted, I'm sure there is some. Let's see what's in there. There is sucralose in there. Okay, so I'm not happy about that. I'm not happy about the sucralose in there. I would much rather you just get straight up essential amino acids possibly online, but it I would still take this over this, right? Any of these are going to have sucralose, too. Essential amino acids, not branch chain amino acids. If you have a scoop of this along with protein, it can potentially 4x the bioavailability of your protein after a workout. There are studies that demonstrate that because you get a bigger mtor spike, you get a bigger mtor elevation, which makes it so that more muscle protein synthesis occurs. Um, more branch chain aminos. Uh, we're getting into electrolytes here, which I don't think really are going to play too much into sports supplements a whole lot. Let's see. We got acid, stevia. Okay, so this one's stevia. And it looks like we have h Oh, it has aminos in it, too. Interesting. So, it has branch chain aminos plus 140 milligrams of So, really not much sodium in it. 140 millig. That doesn't make a lot of sense. What's this? Bio Steel Sugar-free. Oh, it's just a different flavor. Same thing, just different flavor. Okay. What about some of these ready to drink proteins? I think this is something we need to pay attention to as well. Premier Pro, Pure Protein, Premier Protein. Get asked about a lot. Let's take a look on that. Whoa. Okay. So, the water protein blend, milk is milk protein isolate, calcium caseinate, whey protein concentrate. Then we get into malttodextrin, natural artificial flavors. Uh yeah, not exactly good. There's a lot of acidosis, potassium, a lot of stuff in there. The ready to drink ones are a little bit sketchy. With ready to drink protein drinks, you typically want to go for ready to drink uh ones that are in the refrigerated section so that they don't have the sodium benzoates and the preservatives and all that. We've already covered muscle milk in a powder form, but if we cover muscle milk in this form, we see it's even worse because now we get into additional preservatives like carrageenan as a stabilizer, more sucralose, more aculfane, potassium. Uh you can see it comes quite an issue. Okay, so we want to be careful there. I would not recommend that. Uh body fortress. What's in this high protein? Let's hope that it's at least just whey protein. Milk protein isolate calcium case. It's basically a knockoff of the Pure Protein. I can already tell you right there. Almost the exact same ingredients. Um, so far we're Oh god. 12 g. Yeah. 10 g of sugar added to the Gatorade one. Let's just not even go there. What about Premier Protein? Another big brand. Uh, I think we I think they sell these at Costco. Yeah. Water milk protein concentrate. Not even whey protein at all in there. It's purely made with milk protein. This is no different than like a boost like you know calorie shake. So thank you. No different than like a boost like sort of like calorie drink that you would drink just to get calories. So I would not recommend that. Uh I think all the premier proteins are going to fall in the same category. The equates are just going to be knockoffs of that. So, but we do need to check out the Quest. Um, which I'm hopeful, cautiously optimistic here because Quest does, okay, I will give Quest this the ingredient list is much less, much smaller. So, we have water, milk protein concentrate, but still no actual like whey protein. Milk protein does not give you the same like muscle protein synthesis effect, right? So, here we have sucralose. It's still not good, but it's the best out of all of them. Okay, we're going to go through uh the pre-work workouts here, but we're going to blaze pretty quick. The main thing you want to look for, okay, obviously you're going to have caffeine in it. Typically, beta-alanine, citrine, mealate. Uh those are the things you're going to really look for. Let's start with these Bang ones because I do like the fact that they already have I saw something in there. I saw where did I see it? I saw they had Yeah. 7 and a half grams of essential amino acids. I like that they have EAAs. The bottom line is that preworkout though, you don't want to have a bunch of amino acids. I know it sounds counterproductive, but pre-workout, if you have amino acids, you're actually blunting some of the potential fat loss effect uh because you do get a little bit of an insulin spike. I prefer working out fasted. So, if you're working out fasted, I wouldn't bother doing this. I would just have caffeine or coffee really. Okay? But if you're not working out fasted and you are going to have a pre-workout, then I'd be okay with this. The problem is I'm pretty sure we end up with a bunch of aspartame and stuff in here. Let's see. sucralose. Okay. So, what I want to try to find is can we find a pre-workout that is completely Thomas approved that doesn't have sucralose. So, I'm going to blaze through this really quick here um muscle pump. So, this could be cool. I just I bet you there's yeah sucralose as well as some colorings and as potassium. So, sweeteners. Look at the bottom line is here's the deal. If you're trying to avoid sweeteners altogether, you are best off just making your own pre-workout. You really are. Like add some citrine melee. have some caffeine, have a little green tea extract, whatever. If you're not worried about that, I'm not going to fault you for it. Then we need to look at the other things. So, let's put superlose and stuff aside. So far, this one looks really cool. Uh, just because of that hooperine in there. What's in this muscle tech one? Okay, still sucralose. Oo, interesting. Hawthorne, nitrous, arginine, and otol. Uh, caffeine. It's got a little bit of creatine. Nah, this one's not that good. Um, six-star. What do we have in six-star? Advanced amino complex. Okay, so basically this is kind of funny cuz all this is is caffeine and amino acids. They're calling it a pre-workout. Um, enhanced focus. What do we have in here? Beetroot. I do like beetroot in there. An acetylcysteine as an antioxidant sort of effect. Uh, phosphatylcholine. Theob broine. Himalayan pink salt. Yohimi bark. This one's kind of cool. Bang for the buck. It's not bad. Again, BPI did a good job on that one. Again, artificial sweeteners, you're going to have a bunch of them. Um, okay. This Jackal and Hide brand, I've seen it before. beta-alanine, creatine, um, performance, cognitive drive. Ooh, I do like it. Has choline in it. Okay, so this one would be good. And adaptogenic. This is cool. Okay, again, artificial sweeteners. We got to put that aside. This has a good like sort of focus blend with the adaptogenic matrix to help you adapt. the whole idea behind like ashwagandha and uh aphro moment and everything like that, it's all about allowing your body to get better at adapting to stress. So, I like that they're using that. So, this one so far, these two seem like the most interesting that are here. Uh C4 is just basic stuff. There's nothing really fascinating about C4 um other than it's just it just kind of cracks you up. Like it just is a bunch of energy and you got some conjugated linoleic acid in there. Yeah, there's nothing fascinating there. Uh C4 Sport, we kind of get into the same thing. What about this redcon one? We have beta-alanine, caffeine, juniper, dicaffeine, melee. That's interesting. At least they're using a different uh form. Interesting. So, this is okay. This is not like a pump supplement. This is just flatout energy. Um also sucralose. So, again, we run into that problem. So, I did not find any that do not have artificial sweeteners. That's the issue that we face here. So, we run into that big problem. So, again, the Evolution, the Jackal are probably the most interesting. Uh, and then this one is a close second. This Fast and Furious one is kind of interesting than that. Can't really see anything else that's worth mentioning. The Bang is going to be good except for the fact that you wouldn't really want to have it pre-workout if you're fasting. If you're not fasting and you work out with food, then that one would be okay, too. I saw another protein. Here's another protein. That's interesting. Gold standard whey. This wasn't anywhere else. Um, also whey protein isolate then mixed with whey protein concentrate. Yeah, sucralose. I mean, again, sucralose, take it or leave it, whatever. But I don't like that it has the whey protein concentrate mixed in there and the whey peptides, natural artificial flavor. I mean, again, you compare that to like, you know, these two ingredients. It's a no-brainer, right? And then, oh, there's one more thing that's sneaking in here that I want to check out. Here's two actually. Okay, so we've got casein protein. Uh, should you have casein protein pre-bed? Look, the bottom line is you're not going to get that much of an effect. Okay. Uh, we also have as sulfate potassium sucralose. This is six-star brand. The thing with casein, you have to know this. Like before bed, first of all, you should be cutting your food off by like 700 p.m. for the best results in terms of fat loss. Okay? The quicker that you end up in a fasted state, a the better you will sleep. B, the more fasted your workout will be in the morning because you stop food earlier. Quin protein, the whole idea is it breaks down slow. It gelatinizes in your gut. And what that means is it it kind of like a gel and it digests very slow. So, as far as your body is concerned, you're still kind of digesting food for like 3 4 5 hours after you go to bed, which A is not good for your sleep. Not good for your dal rhythms, but B, it also means that you're not getting the optimal fat loss overnight because your body is still in a fed state. You want to get your body into that fasted state so that you upregulate AMPK and start utilizing stored tissue. So, I'm not the biggest fan of casein. I think the quasein could have a purpose if you were going to have it say with like lunch and you needed to like go a long period of time before dinner or something. So, it's not all bad. I just don't It's marketed as pre-bed. But then I saw this one. It's hiding in there. It's like Eric Cartman with a beefcake episode. 100% mass gainer. What do we have in here? So, this is a crud load of carbs. We have 200. No way. Six scoops. A serving. This is just comical. A serving size is six scoops, 280 grams of carbs, 44 grams of protein. What is in this? It's just a bunch of like starches. That's comical. I think the mask gainer. I'll see you guys tomorrow.