Dr. Balan, hello. You are a Harvard neuroscientist studying all kinds of things, sleep and dreams, and I want to talk about not being able to sleep, but the real insomnia. You know, people really where they just cannot sleep. Uh, you know, there's a lot of people that just talk about sleep quality online and this and that. And that's that's fine and dandy and how to improve sleep. But I think if we understand like what's actually happening, it might give people a little bit more insight as to, you know, how they can a get the help they need, but b like maybe there are things they can do. Yeah, absolutely. So sleep, sleep is critical for your survival. Um obviously during the stages of sleep, deep sleep, especially physiological benefits, deep sleep, cognitive benefits. So it's it's crucial. In fact, if you deprive rats of REM sleep, the dream stage of sleep, they will die, right? So, we know this. There was a guy um I just want to preface the whole thing. There was a there was a guy um who he he was a Chinese dude. He was watching all the soccer matches of the European Championship for 11 days straight. He didn't sleep. Allegedly, he died from from lack of sleep. Okay. So, we know this. So, sleep is sleep is crucial for his survival. So, so we have that. Um that's that's important. Um, obviously there's even a disorder. So there there's insomnia per se, which is not being able to fall asleep or waking up too early or in the middle of the night in a pathological manner. What's going on in the brain? So you have that and we'll go into that as well. But that's also an extreme version of this which is a genetic disorder where you cannot sleep at all. We'll go into that. So remind me if I if I if I forget in a moment, but let's take the the more normal insomnia that that you and I might experience. So insomnia can strike for different reasons. Often people that have trauma or anxiety or have uh a lot of worries during the day but but but mostly pathological um dis um mental disorders. You have a lot of you have a lot of of of insomnia. You see insomnia is very common in these folks. You usually they can't fall asleep within 30 minutes or maybe take an hour. That's why we talk about the dangerous type of of in of insomnia where it's pathological. And after today's video, I popped the link down below for 25% off Seeds daily symbiotic. Look at I experiment on myself. You know that about me. I experiment with peptides. I experiment with things. I am a guinea pig and that's what this channel is about. But when it comes down to the gut health, I really focus on that. and seed has probably been the most powerful thing that I have done for my gut health independent of actually changing my diet. So, they utilize a capsule inside of a capsule. Super cool technology and that's a 25% off discount link. Look, I do not promote probiotics much on this channel. The only probiotic that I promote is Seed because it's the only one that I really think has the strong clinical data behind it to really reinforce it because most probiotics end up getting destroyed by the gut by the time you consume them. And I'm telling you, I noticed a significant change. Some other members of my family have noticed a significant change and friends of mine have noticed a significant change. So that link is down below. Top line of the description is 25% off. You're not going to find that discount link many other places. So top line underneath this video. Think about the brain. It has to power down, right? In order to enter the stages, the initial stages that you know temperature drops, heart rate drops, and all that. It has to power down. the the brain waves have to change. When you're awake, they're very frenetic, very quick, and then they have to slow down. The sensory part of the brain that controls your perceptual awakening has to shut down. That's a part of it. Now, often what you see in people with insomnia is that there's something called nocturnal arousal. Is just a fancy name for the limbic part of the brain, the emotional core of the brain tucked behind your ears being hyperactivated. Now if it's hyperactivated when you are asleep you have a problem because it can tickle the cortex the sensory part of the brain uh allowing you not to be and so you can't shut down your brain you can't shut you know shut down the various parts of your brain does that make sense so so think about it this way if I have a lot of you know amydala and limbic emotional activity during my day I walk about I maybe have anxiety or have depression or trauma actually depression is a separate case altogether Because you know fragmentation of sleep is all over the place in in depression. It turns out people with REM depression they we talked about you and I chatted about how REM sleep for example you have a little bit of REM sleep in the early part of the night and then you have more REM towards the late part of the of the night. And the reason for this is that your brain may favor um bi you know physical healing uh you know being physically well established because that's the function of of deep sleep to heal your emot your growth like your cells and skin and all that uh whereas it seems that REM is more important for cognitive and emotional healing. So your brain may in you and I and the guy on the savannah in on average he favored having deep sleep early in the night and then having REM later in the night because you know if you for some reason were you know woke up after four hours of sleep you could still sprint and not maybe catch an injury and and be eaten by a tiger. So we said that right now it turns out if you have clinical depression if you are depressed clinically then you will have tons of REM in the initial stages. So you might have half an hour of REM it's called late REM latency and onset a lot of REM because your brain now favors emotional healing. You are so emotionally you know in agony during the day that you just need REM sleep. you know, you need that emotional healing and so you have tons of REM in the early stages of sleep. But that comes at a cost. That comes at a cost because you can imagine now if you have a lot of REM sleep early in the night and and an attempt at emotional healing at what cost though deep sleep is less, right? And so these guys will have less deep sleep with depression. And then they go about they wake up in the morning and say, "I don't I don't have a lot of energy. I feel tired all the time. What's going on?" Well, now you have the answer on it. At least partially is because they didn't have a lot lot of deep sleep. They had their brain favored REM. So, this is insomnia in that general sense, you know. Uh stress, for example, if you're very stressed during the day, you have a lot of noradrenaline, you have that in PTSD in the clinical sense, for example, or anxiety disorders, OCD, for example. But also in people that are very stressed all the time, you know, I have to catch this, I have to do this, I have to, you know, write that, you know, new check and do all this, the noradrenaline again makes it hard for them to go into deeper stages of sleep and and actually and get, you know, benefits of of sleep. And then overall, the sleep is more shallow. You have harder time falling asleep and powering down because your brain is over overactive. No adrenaline as we talked about in the brain stem locus cerilius that part of the brain where no adrenaline is is produced is important for keep keeping us alert but if it's alert all day hyper alert in fact all day you have no adrenaline and adrenaline in your body hyperactivated all day then it's hard to power that down and and allow you to go into to to sleep. So those are some explanations for that for the general insomnia. Do you want to talk about the the extreme pathological insomnia because I find this very fascinating. Yeah, I mean I think we should we should hear about it because I'm I mean those are the people that like just can't sleep, right? And I think it it serves a deeper point as well because it can it teaches us how important sleep is. So and how to how important it is to take care of your insomnia. So there is a a guy this is a case study of this person. He had what's uh well it started out like this. In fact, for some reason, he couldn't sleep for a few days, 5 days, 7 days, 10 days, he couldn't sleep. What's going on? I can't sleep. I can't seem to fall asleep. So, I thought he was his, you know, wife snoring. So, so he went to the couch, went down to the couch and slept on the couch instead. So, you know, left the the A lot of husbands will do this. They'll sleep on the couch if you know, if they must. It's called sleep separation sometimes can help. My wife and I sleep divorce all the time. Like, we we just like Yeah. sleep in a separate bedroom. I I recommend this strongly. This is very We prioritize our waking hours together than our sleeping hours together. Like it's very effective, very effective stuff right now. This guy, this guy Michael Cork, his name was was Michael Cork. He said, "Let me just sleep on the damn excuse me, the couch because I need to I need to figure out I can't I can't you know, this is I don't know what's going on." After about 12 or 13 days, he went to the doctor and said, "What's going on? What's what's happening?" uh and the doctors hadn't have a clear explanation. They couldn't tell what's was what the case was why he would he couldn't sleep. Now it ended up uh about 20 days later he would he would use a like um a cane to walk. He could barely walk after 20 days. Still no clear answer but he was like very tired, very fatigued. His eyes were crying for sleep and he was kind of walking around cane. At that point, the doctors were got getting closer to understanding that he was having some sleep pathology, but not still not 100% clear. 6 months in, no sleep. Okay, this guy, he couldn't he was completely bedridden. He had hallucinations all the time, you know, basically dream mentation, dream activity or imagery, intruding into wakefulness because it was just trying to do its thing because he couldn't sleep. Hallucinations, he would have a ton of this. He was tired, fatigued, could barely move. He would communicate using his eyes. He was just completely devastated. Two years down the line, he the chap died. The chap died from from this disorder. Now, it turns out he had something called fatal familial insomnia. Fatal familiar insomnia, FFI, neurons in the sensory gateway of the brain called the phalamus. The phalamus is a doorway of the brain where sensory information has to go through like vision, hearing, touch and it it it it it's a it's a path by which the brain can get get all the information to come inside the brain. Now if this part of the brain obviously has to shut down during sleep otherwise you would feel like you are awake. You would feel conscious, right? It's the conscious consciousness hub of the brain so to speak, right? in raw sensory information. Now that part of the brain the neurons there were dying off and so for that reason for that reason he could he it was perpetually on perpet per perpetually active perpetually sensory information was overloading him and he could not sleep. Now that shows us first of all how this sensory dormant in the brain the phalamus how critical it is the fact that it can shut down properly. Second, it shows us if you cannot sleep, you know what the consequences of that are. You know, ultimately death in that ca this case. So obviously we don't have this rare genetic disorder, most of us hopefully, but it just illustrates that how how critical um sleep is. So then what are the other sort of categories of insomnia? we've got, you know, obviously this extreme case and then are there is it usually brought upon by some sort of trauma and then eventually like it it gets restored or is it something like people really just battle with legit insomnia, periodic bouts for the entirety of their life? Yeah. I So we see a lot of insomnia in people with anxiety, a lot with with PTSD, depression. You see it as well in the pathological realm. We see it a lot. It has to do with your ability of your brain to create sleep depth and and and and the activity of the emotional core of the brain, the limbic portion. How active is the limbic portion? Is it perpetually tickling your cortex all the time? C cortical maturation. It turns out you need also the prefrontal to inhibit the limbic parts of the brain. So there's a contin continuous dance going on between the CEO the part of the brain the logical part of the brain and the emotional core. Now that dance is sort of a dance where the the the the CEO is doing the inhibiting and the and the emotional core is doing the emotional flaring up. Got it. And it's kind of the brakes on the brain. You need that in order to also inhibit um the emotional brain from you know kindling and in and and putting the whole brain on fire firing up the brain. So we know that people with depression and anxiety and PTSD have a thinner cortex. So the prefrontal was literally have shrunk or actually even people that are chronically stressed and this is important for those who are not necessarily clinically diagnosed but they are just stressed all the time. It turns out then that even in in in normal normal people so to speak in healthy people without clinical disorders chronic stress will thin the prefrontal. There's a lot of receptors doorways with uh the brain uses of communications uh between cells and there there's a lot of receptors for um that that's cortisol can latch on to and devastate and thin the the cortex. Even the hippocampus, by the way, as a side note, the the memory part of the brain also has a um is vulnerable to stress. The the cortisol can also shrink the hippocampus. That's why if you're been stressed for a few months, like you can barely remember stuff. Uh same same story. So, chronic stress will also put you at the risk for pathological uh or insomnia. But I also want to just want to add there seems to be a genetic component overall in terms of how well you can generate sleep. Think about this all genetically like all our biological uh parameters of the body and ability to sleep is in many ways dictated by our genetic heritage. Uh take my dad for example. He he just has insomnia and he he's had this for for many years. My grandmother h had insomnia as well. I don't suffer as much. which I I seem to be doing okay for the most part except when I'm very stressed out but for the most part but there's a genetic component in terms of of that too um let's give you an example there are less than 1% of the population they have a mutation of genes called deck 2 for example it's fancy name for certain u genes that are involved in creating deep sleep now these ize with this condition where they have a condition where they need a very little sleep in order to thrive. Right? So they can go off they can survive on only three or four hours of sleep. It's enough for them to go by the day. Three or four or five hours of sleep and this is actually been studied. This is a real phenomenon. Five or six hours of sleep it turns out then that it's enough for them. You and I or I don't know but you need at least eight in order to function. But it turns out and there's a genetic component to that. And if you have this rare mutation, you will have um you have more deep sleep. You can generate deep sleep much better even into the as you as you age gradually as as we age, deep sleep becomes more shallow over time. Um up to 90% when you age 90% reduction deep sleep by the age of 70. So as you can imagine if you can if you have genetics that will make you more likely to have better deep sleep and more deep sleep then you have the creme de la creme of sleep you'll have better sleep overall. Interesting. Yeah. So it's uh I mean and they don't seem to have any like delletterious effect of of absolutely not. It seems they they been so you know it's it's it was said that Donald Trump I should say this but Donald Trump there were talks there were talks about him in the early days with my colleagues that he perhaps seemed to sleep very little and the word was that he was functioning well on very little sleep and and that he had this genetic uh susceptibility. I don't know if that's true but there are certain people out there for sure they need five or six and that's it. I mean, these are guys are are the chosen ones in in certain ways, right? Because they can they just need little sleep, much less sleep than than the average person. That's really wild. So, it's Do you find that most people Well, actually, back up with that. Can you recover from these like insomnia episodes and sort of restore sort of, you know, these uh the thinning of sort of the the layers you were talking about? Like, does that come back if you go through a period of of healing and where you're not as high stress? Does that does that heal itself or is that once that damage is done? Is that sort of done? That's that's that's a great question. So just to pref preface that lack of sleep, it's a vicious cycle. What I'm trying to say is a vicious cycle cycle going on. So little bit of or not enough REM sleep, right? If you have a little bit of REM, sorry, just sleep overall being less that also increases cortisol. So the cortis cortisol will lead then to less sleep, more stress and then so it's a vicious cycle where where where you can see how these things can can spiral. Um and the question is what can you do then and can you reverse some of these effects of of of um of cortisol and the effects on the prefrontal and then in that way improve insomnia? Yes, it seems to be the case. the prefrontal can grow thick again and the hypocampus seems to be able to grow thick again and and that comes about um through stress reduction you know taking long walks during the days meditate things I mean I'm I'm taking the cases of non like pathological you don't have like depression or anxiety that needs that will need its own treatment but in general um yes you can so you can you can have that those structures being lowered and then you can use certain techniques um for insomnia like there's obviously sleep hygiene. Sleeping on the same the same time every day can help set your circadian rhythms. Meaning we have in our brain in the hippocampus and the hypothalamus region of the brain that's a region that's important for sleep. A little marble structure that part of the brain if it um it has a biological clock. So you can set it more regularly by sleeping at the same time and waking up the same time each morning getting sunlight in the morning on your eyes. So you set the clock and in that way you can help reduce stress by as we said meditating, exercising, all cortisol reducing activities. Um so those would be ways and then obviously some in some cases what they do is they sleep reset is when they will doctors I don't I don't do this kind of work myself but they will have someone with insomnia they will prevent them from sleeping for a few day few days and then that can potentially um sort of reset the whole clock they could build up a lot of sleep pressure in this case and then they can sleep much Interesting. Yeah, that would make sense. I mean, it's almost like sometimes that's inadvertently what ends up happening, you know, anyway. It's like you just sit and uh like resign to the fact that okay, I'm just not going to sleep good and just kind of let it go and then just let the pressure rebuild. But the problem is it's so you have to somewhat do that in a controlled environment because otherwise you let the the day get the best of you and you end up being stressed out and that ends up messing up the cycle and you can't actually Yeah, absolutely. And and also um sorry to to interrupt you there Thomas but um I wanted to say because what I think is critical for for the average person is the fact that we have these side givers time givers in the brain again it has to do with a biological clock. Now we all sleep um if I was to deprive you of light. So light what happens as I go about my daily life um and you know during the day light hits the optic nerve travels through the retina to the phalamus obviously we mentioned the phalamus before the sensory gate and then goes to your the hypothalamus to this biological clock now this will help set your the the biological clock the way it does this is that by less intensity of light signals to the hypothalamus it says pineal in the back of the brain release melatonin the sleep hormone. Right? So, so this is how it works. This is the function. Intensity of light becomes less and less less light signal the the the hypothalamus the clock telling your brain now it's it's time to shut down it's time to sleep and the sleep hormone is released. So you have this and this is very important and so this means that you should avoid light during night time as get as you should avoid screens you should avoid iPads you should avoid all these things as it becomes later and later during the evening but not only that it turns out that your biological clock in the super kya nucleus in the hypothalamus in this part of the brain is also controlled by other factors when do you go out and socialize? When did you have that last meal? When did you have that last, you know, checking of emails and work? All this will also set your biological clock. So, this is important that these are all coordinated so it doesn't um mess up your your biological rhythm. Yeah, I think it's it's an easy thing to think about your your basic sleep hygiene. And I think when you actually think about just what also stimulates you, Yeah. Yeah, people often overlook that. It's like everything becomes very um basic, you know. Okay, yeah, I know blue light. I know this is, you know, this I should avoid. I know I shouldn't eat. We actually think about okay, anything stimulatory like anything that's like what's happening behind the curtain of all those things that you're talking about. Okay, like we can get into the weeds of the mechanisms of uh you know what blue light is doing and this and that, but the reality is at some level it's stimulating you. Yeah. And it's so mean even things like stress before bed, you know, like having don't have hard conversations before, but you know, don't or anything you think that like keep it light. You know, those are the kinds of things where I think like that is such a big lever for me that like it's just it's easy to want to just engage. You know, you get home from work and you've got to find that amount of time to actually like have serious conversations about the direction of your family's life and things and it's like, okay, well, unfortunately, you got to find a better time than right when you get home from work when it's within a few hours of bed. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, it's a good point and and I and I and I have this issue myself. My dad, for example, I mention my dad all the time. My mom is like this to some extent, but my my dad whenever I'm traveling with him or anything, he's like the night person. He's just he's very active at night. There's his phones, there's screens, there's everything, you know, and and so it's it's it's I have to be very careful if I want to have good sleep, you know. I I need to really prioritize all that and and make sure that I don't engage with his like he want to have dinner at 8:00 p.m. 9:00 p.m. I want to have dinner at 5:00 p.m. for example. And these things like dinner really does these these these habits affects how our biological rhythm is is set. Let's talk about some other uh you know sleep disorders for a minute like things like uh you know obviously you're an expert in in dreams. So if we look at like you know sleepwalking what what's happening with sleepwalking like and people go through these periods where they'll sleepwalk and or chronic sleepwalking like what what is happening in the brain in the body there? It's a great question. So sleepwalking I love this. So about 2% of people have experienced um sleepwalking. 40 14% of children h have sleepwalking. Uh and now sleepwalking what's going on as we cycle through the different stages of sleep we hit deep sleep. Now during deep sleep you know obviously the if you look at the signature of the brain it's powered down. The hippocampus is shut down. the overall activity you we have big you have firing of the brain like this the big waves called delta waves signaling that information is being taken from long-term memory to long-term storage. So you have that but then occasionally in some people you start waking up and you become alert. By meaning alert I don't actually mean literally alert. You just it feels like you're alert because you're actually a robot. You're more like on autopilot. At this case, if you look at the brain, the emotional part of the brain, the limbic centers can activate or hyperactivate the prefrontal, the logical part of the brain, the CEO of the brain such that you start waking up to a slight degree, a slight awakening enough that you can project like you can wake up. You can wake you can start to I should use wake up carefully not wake up but you can leave your bed and start walking around. Now your eyes are wide open in fact so it seems like you're awake in some sense but you are in fact like more like a robot because your prefrontal the CEO of the brain the logical reasoning part of the brain is minimally active slightly active only being slightly aroused by the emotional part of the brain. Now it turns out then then the motor regions of the brain are hyperactive so you can that's why you can walk otherwise you wouldn't be able to walk but also your cerebellum the part of the brain that has to do with sense of balance that part of the brain is also active so that's why you don't fall typically now as you're walking about as a robot unconscious in fact you go about you go around go around often people will go to the you balcony of all places very dangerous can be very dangerous Or they might go out to the kitchen and this is a version of sleepwalking that's called sleep related eating disorder and they will take raw foods from the fridge all the while sleeping all the while a zombie taking vegetables and chopping vegetables and they will eat them damaging their teeth. The knife will damage their fingers slicing their fingers. It's very is very dangerous. I had a friend that had this when I lived in Texas. He uh it was a severe thing. They had to lock his fridge. They had to lock his pantry. Um, and it would have him multiple times per week. He would get down and bizarre bizarre thing. It's insane. It's crazy. So, they have this and then they obviously the level of teeth damage and and poisoning from foods and eating raw foods and ve of all of all people, excuse me, of all things they'll eat a lot of uh frozen stuff, a lot of carbohydrates they will have. But it's it's terrifying in in this way. It's very it's it's it's very detrimental. Some people will drive cars. They'll go out to the car and start the car and start driving around the town all the while sleeping. Imagine this. Your brain can do this on autopilot. Drive around. It's it's dangerous. Let me give you a case of sleepwalking because I feel like this was illustrates what it can lead to. So there was this guy called Kenneth Parks. He's about 23 years of age. He was living in Canada, I believe, and he was having financial issues, stress, life was horrible, you know, for him at the time. A lot of lot of lot of problems. And so Kenneth, he had to he had a meeting with his in-laws, like his mother-in-law and father-in-law, supposed to sit down and have a chat about life, how to how to figure out his problems, right? to sort sort this out this this gambling debt that he had. And so Kenneth was actually very stressed that night. He you know he was the night before he was to go go and meet them. He was sleeping on the couch, the TV buzzing away in the background, you know, just he was sleeping and then Kenneth suddenly opened his eyes and started to walk. Sleeping here. Sleeping. Going to his car. turning on the engine and driving 14 miles to his in-laws house. There he got himself in, went straight to the kitchen, took grabbed the biggest knife he could get, went upstairs, and in a agitated frenzy slaughtered his father-in-law. Bloody affair. then, excuse me, slaughtered his mother-in-law and then tried to kill the father-in-law as well, but he was able to defend himself and and he he didn't die. Right. Kenneth then went down, took the car and just start driving, you know, all the while sleeping. All the while sleeping. Now, at this point, he looked at his at his tangent tendons, his his his his um arms, blood, and he was started started to wake up, and he realized, my god, what's happening? you know, I think I've killed somebody. He said strove drove directly to the police station and said, I think I've killed somebody. And at that time, at that point, it it was then revealed that he had, you know, butchered his his mother and father-in-law, mother-in-law, and then tried to kill his father-in-law as well. Everybody thought this was, you know, you know, a cry, you know, he was just trying to, you know, get himself out of the situation by saying he was sleeping. Nobody really believed him in the beginning as you would expect, right? Then they had an EEG done on him. It's a basically a net-like thing you can put in your brain and like little antennas and you can these antennas can can measure the activity of the activity of the outer layer, the the what's called the cortex, how active it is. And it turned out that during sleep, during deep sleep, his his his his he would go out of deep sleep, in and out of deep sleep 10 times each night. And this clenched it really the case. He he was they found that he actually was doing this and not knowing he was actually sleepwalking while he he butchered them. And and this was a big case uh that how did they how did they end up trying him? I mean, did you know? Yeah. What what what I know is that once the actual physiological evidence from the EEG came out and it showed that he was actually had this 10 times going in and out out of REM each night that suggested that he was actually doing this whole thing while sleeping and so he was not sentenced. I think that's that really clenched the case and he was found non non-guilty. So this is my my knowledge of it. Yeah. It's so wild though. Can you imagine just like having a relationship with that person afterwards and knowing like it was you but it wasn't you but it wasn't. It's crazy. There's so many layers to this. I mean, how do you how do you even grapple with this, right? How you how do you It shows you how the brain works works in these these layers, how how mysterious it is, right? That at one point you can you're sleeping, but then you're not then you're not sleeping and then you're doing all these things and it's it's incredible. So, do are are there any instances of of sleepwalking where I mean people go through traumatic periods of their life and it induces it or is it usually a pathological thing that's just kind of just there? Yeah, it's a good question. So it goes back to the whole question about how come is it's more how come we see it more in children for example. Yeah. All right. And and this is because the preffrontal cortex has to at all times inhibit the limbic structures at to a certain extent in order to generate proper sleep and the architecture of sleep. Now if you have pre in children you have the prefrontal is not the prefrontal is not fully matured yet. There's a lack of maturation of the prefrontal. So it cannot inhibit the limbic structures. There's a lack of inhibition there. And that lack of inhibition can explain it that you know they have more of limbic activity more friction in the limbic structures. there's not a lot enough measuration and so they h they're more likely to just slip out of deep sleep and have have sleepwalking. Now you can imagine this this exactly fits our scenario of of people with pathologies of the prefrontal and the liyic centers. So if you have trauma for example or if you have anxiety disorders, you can then see that you're more likely to slide into deep sleep because less prefrontal inhibition and more limbic activity all the time. Um, and then also during sleep of course causing you to have more deep sleep. That's the sleepwalking. And I would imagine probably conversely like just during your waking hours probably just more maybe even irrationality like I mean it's just because it because it can in can it infiltrate you during your waking hours in the same sort of inverse. It's a good question. Not in the literal s not in the sense that you will have you will become but it's a deep question actually what you're what you're asking here Thomas because not in the sense where where you say that my my I became like a zombie when I was awake but in some sense the depressed people if you have severe depression for example you are much like a zombie the parts of the brain that has to do with with like the prefrontal and logical reasoning I know I'm aware of myself that parts of the brain are so thinned out and become like in terms of time in ter in terms of temporal activation sometimes are activated in a later on versus the emotional parts that are that are dominating and so you become almost like a zombie. You have the anterior singulate, a a region of the brain below the the cortex, hyperactive in depression, and you are almost like an emotional zombie that cannot really do much. And then you that's why some treatments target these prefrontals to make them to make the prefrontal more active and so you can inhibit the the these um these lower structures more, these emotional structures more. But certainly this is exactly what what's it. It's almost like being a zombie while awake when you have um these conditions. Now, what about some of these other conditions? I know we touched on them, you know, a little bit more in some some other videos, but I mean things like um you know, even having night terrors, right? Like when people just like wake up and is there a difference between a nightmare and a night terror? Like people talk about like night terrors almost where you're like waking up screaming sort of thing. What's what's the difference between a nightmare and a night terror? So nightmares is that when you have you have a scary dream, you see Freddy Krueger as you mentioned is during deep sleep. So it's not very elaborate. It's not like a long and elaborate dream like REM dreams, but it's more like a evocative prov, you know, very terrifying uh dream that you remember very vividly and you wake up and you have a nightmare. Like night terrors, on the other hand, you don't really remember what's going on. You just woke up jolted, screaming, scared out of your of your pants almost, right? It turns out night terrors and sleepwalking and these sorts of disorders are called parisomnas or arousal disorders. These are really related. They're family disorders, but has to do they have to do with the fact that the prefrontal and the limbic are in this battle and it seems that the limbic is all almost always, you know, just tickling the the the prefrontal to awakening and so you wake up a little bit uh too like prematurely. So this is what what these are paras parisomnias are about like night terror and and and and things like that versus a nightmare which is really can be traumatic memory that your brain is replaying over and over and try to deal with. Yeah. Because night terrors I've had a couple of them in my life and it's it's been like you Yeah. come out kind of kind of sit up screaming out of breath panicking like and then you know like my wife would just be like what happened? I don't know. Yeah. I don't know like you know That's a good question. So even sleep like sleep talking. So people will talk gibberish and talk and also it's also like an arousal disorder if you have you know during deep sleep. So in some cases you don't actually wake up and sorry walk about you just simply start talking all the time. Does it seem to be genetic? There seems to be genetic component. I think it has again if we look at um if we look at the the the example before with with people that have high quality deep sleep at the one end of the spectrum then you have other people that don't have enough deep sleep and their sleep sleep is more shallow they have more anxiety and so for example in the anxiety disorders again panic disorder trauma depression tons of sleep terrors tons of sleep paralysis tons of sleepwalking there's it's it's very common in these disorders when we do clinical clinical ical treatment manuals. We often have modules for sleep terror, for sleep paralysis because we kind of know it goes for the territory. Insomnia, arousal during the day, you know, fragmentation of the of the your your this these arousal systems and anxiety and noradrenaline and serotonin ultimately will spill over into the night and you cannot turn these systems on and off in a manner that's appropriate and you have more of of these disorders. Interesting. I mean when we look at I mean yeah just it's fascinating man. I mean it is. So as someone that really studies what the brain does when we sleep what happens to our sleep architecture and even just the quality of our sleep and potentially long term with alcohol and sleep. Oh alcohol and sleep is a great question. So REM or alcohol suppresses REM sleep. That's one of the functions of REM. um what it does it really it can think about alcohol as a way of sedating you. It's a sedation. And so a lot of people will use this. I know of people in my in my that I've even in my sort of extended family and some people that have used alcohol as a way to just numb their pains and being able to their their worries rather and then be able to fall asleep. So they will have a drink in the night and think, well, this will make me fall asleep. And it indeed will make them unconscious and feel like they're sleeping, but that they're not really sleeping. So they're getting they're just knocking out their prefrontal loes, the rational part of the brain, but they're not cycling through the architecture of of sleep in a manner that's that's that they should. So it can be it it can feel like you're getting good sleep. And then what it does then is it inhibits the activity of REM sleep. So you get less REM and then this can lead to lead to REM rebound and obviously you don't get all get all the benefits of sleep. We mentioned the cognitive uh benefits of sleep uh the mental memory emotional benefits of sleep of REM sleep and you're simply depriving yourself of all this uh you know by by um by drinking alcohol. So it it's definitely not a good sleep aid so to speak on the on the contrary. Yeah. So I mean is it because it's highly I mean gabaurgic right? So so if you know because GABA plays a pretty significant role in our our sleep but probably I mean so on the surface it would make sense like oh cool well if I'm like influencing more GABA but there's like a downregulation that ultimately happens and you essentially you kind of need more and more and more eventually right is that how it works this is also how it works right so even though if you get sedated you know you can you can take something like alcohol let's say you you numb your prefrontals you you they latch they activate the gabberurgic neurons and you have more GABA which you know makes you more relaxed. This is like a benzoazipene have a gybergic effects in the in the in the amydala for example they have gberurgic effects there and other places but ultimately you will need more this is one thing so if you take benzo this is another analogy in other examples you will need more and more and more alcohol more and more to have the same effect and and and then when you don't take the drug you will feel like agitated and always and anxious so it has the opposite effect as well so definitely definitely this is this this is the case yeah Yeah. I mean, and then uh if we look at some of these other ones, I mean, like let's take a look at like sleep paralysis for just a second just because that's another sleep disorder and the whole category sleep disorders. I know again we touched on it in in another video, but just as a you know a basic understanding of what's happening there. Sleep paralysis. Yep. So each night we cycle through different stages of sleep as we touched upon stages one, two, and three where your body is preparing you for sleep. You enter deep sleep. Your brain is cleansing your toxins and it's helping with blood pressure and heart rate down, immune function and all that. Great. Then enters REM sleep. Then enters vivid lifelike crisp dreams. The ones when you see yourself in the moon, you know, wrestling with an alligator, having tea with the queen. Everything is crazy. Everything is flirting with everything. Everything is warped, right? So, you have REM dreams. Now, in order for you not to act out your dreams and hurt yourself and your sleeping partner, it makes sense for your brain to paralyze your entire body from head to toe. So, it does this by releasing inhibitory neurotransmitters from the brain stem, the lower part of the brain that goes down and inhibits um your act basically you have inhibition inhibition going on and then an alpha motor neurons in your spinal cord paralyzing your entire body. So you are paralyzed during REM sleep. Now you have the paralysis. Great. Very functional and adaptive. Occasionally though what can happen is your sensory regions of the brain your perceptual centers of the brain prefrontal and otherwise can become prematurely activated. So you start waking up and feeling aware. You can see your surrounding. You can scan your room but you are still paralyzed in REM. The paralysis system in the brain stem is actively paralyzing you. So in effect you are stuck between wakefulness and sleep. So these two worlds are colliding in a in a way right where the percept and you also see here that these two systems can decouple from each other. They are not bound by each other. They are two separate independent systems. wakefulness system, sensory system and the paralysis system. So this is REM sleep. This is sleep paralysis. You start becoming aware of your surroundings and you can open your eyes because there's a different circuit that allows you to move your eyes and open your eyelids. Now being aware about 40% of cases our research shows so we I've done research on sleep paralysis for example in about seven countries. Fascinating. And we see that people around the world will talk about ghost and demonic figures coming from the room approaching them, pressing on their chest and strangling them. They can't move, they can't speak, of course, and they will sexually violate them. So they're the the type of sexual dreaming we know from normal dreams can spill over into sleep paralysis episodes as well is very terrifying experience. I mean it's almost like leads us to believe that like you know maybe we experience these things in our sleep and we just don't remember them right we don't like these things not saying sleep paralysis we we have and don't remember what I'm saying like these things that people see like demonic figures and sometimes because um are you open to sharing you said you had a experience with it and I think that might yeah what what happened with you yeah of course so when I was a a teenager in my young teenage years I was sleeping in my room and what happened was at some point I feel like it was early morning in fact I could I opened my eyes I realized my god I'm I'm awake but I can't move I can't speak what's going on like I'm paralyzed I literally cannot move right now it's very scary feeling at this point but then I had this overwhelming feeling of an ominous presence in the room and this was not just a feeling of evil but it was like packed evil densely packed evil of epic proportions this is one of the intriguing things about sleep paralysis the the the evilness of the experience. The sense of loom and just evil being there, looming over you and and and watching you can be extremely overwhelming. So I had that and then I felt like a creature was approaching me, was strangling me, trying to kill me. I could read it, read it, it its thoughts. I knew what it was up to. Theory of mind is very active during dreams and rim sleep. So that explains that. But I kind of had an idea. Okay, this is evil. It wants to kill me. It wants to destroy me. It strangled me, held me down, and then at this point I was I thought I'm going to die. At at the point of strangulation, I thought I'm going to die. I also saw my legs, by the way, flying up and down. This was very spooky. Thought it was over, but I was able to wrestle myself out of it. So, I kind of went I tried, you know, screaming and just moving and then eventually it kind it went away. Like, I woke up and it was jolted awake and I was actually awake at this point. This was a terrifying thing. And what do I do? Like do I go tell my parents? Do I get what do I tell my teachers? Like mind you, Thomas, at the time I was not a very studious kid. I was I wasn't good in school. Like I had a very bad reputation with my family. Like I was the black sheep kind of thing. So saying them, you know, telling them that I had a ghost attack me, it just sounded weird. It just sounded like bloody bizarre. So what do I do? So I decided to go on the internet a little bit, Google it. Like I saw a ghost. That didn't really lead to anything. And so eventually then when I later on I went to Egypt in my my early career with the American University in Cairo very early on my young years and I started to study it more formally and do some research over there and and try to compare sleep paralysis in Egypt and Italy and Denmark and see how people understand it in these countries how and depending on what they understand from it their explanation for it how that affects the experience itself. Um, for example, we found in in in Egypt, people will say it's the evil genius of a Latin attacking them, viciously killing them, you know, you know, this evil presence can be, you know, fatal experience. In Italy will they will talk about witches called the pandafa. It's like this witch that comes at night, chokes you, kills you potentially. Denmark people will say it's it's stress it's it's the brain physiology and then depending on what people tell you sleep paralysis is how that then affects your perception of it and we turn it turned out that in Egypt for example it's much more frequent so people will say they have sleep paralysis three times more often versus a Danish person and they will say that the paralysis lasts much longer it feels like the paralysis just lasts for ages Danish person nah it just lasted like seconds they will they will say that they it's much more fearful obviously you can expect that they say it's like 50% of Egyptians will say I can die from sleep paralysis Danish person it wasn't really that scary it's scary yes but it wasn't that overwhelm overwhelmingly scary yeah highly logicized highly logicized right exactly and then you find a similar pattern in in in Italy Italians will say it's the witches and then the experience lasts longer it's more fearful and much more frequent. I thought, my god, this is a a great example of of the placebo or the it's evil twin, the noibo effect where you expect something negative and then you get something terrifying. It's a mindbody type interaction that's going on. Quite stunning to see. And at this point, we're looking at this and and I thought, what's going on? And it turns out actually in Egypt and Italy as well, they had much more pathological symptoms come out of this. Depression, anxiety, even trauma-like symptoms in some cases. It seems like they had experienced a trauma from this. And so, let me I often illustrate this using the what I call the little Lisa example if you don't mind. Um, it's this girl, her name is Little Lisa. This is fict fictitious. It's it's it's a story that I that I'm using to illustrate this. Now, little Lisa, she lives on a fictitious island we call, let's say it's Timbuktu or something. She lives there. And there's a cultural narrative about sleep paralysis. Sleep paralysis is this monster. It comes at night. It looks like this. It has It looks like Freddy Krueger, for example, right? And then she hears about this monster during during dinner with her grandmother. The grandmother might say, "Oh, Lisa, the monster looks like this. Be careful when you sleep. it doesn't come and you know maybe try to kill you or do these things to you. Be be very careful. Little Lisa will go to sleep that night and she will have ironically sleep paralysis for the first time. She will see the monster that that her grandmother was talking about for the first time and then and then the next day she's terrified and scared. She has it again. A week later she has it again and a month later she's become chronic and from there she develops anxiety and depression. And then you might ask what's what's going on, right? What's what's happening? How come she never had it before, suddenly she had it from her mother, grandmother telling her about it and suddenly she developed chronic sleep paralysis and suddenly developed depression and anxiety and trauma potentially? What's going on? What's the what's the logic here? What's what's happening? Now, we think here that her grandmother was planting the ideas of sleep paralysis in her head, in her subconscious mind. Then when she went to bed, she was she was mulling over that. She was thinking about it. And then whenever she felt she was self-monitoring, hyper monitoring any paralysis sensations suggesting something was holding her down like her grandmother was saying, something pressing on her chest like her grandmother was saying, she's kind of hypervigilantly monitoring her body and then engages in selfcon in conformatory behavior by init by immediately acting out any paralysis sensations meaning in REM waking herself up doing REM and and triggering these things on her thing on herself in in effect. So she wakes up now during sleep paralysis and has the paralysis but not only that she will have the dream imagery planted in her head by her grandmother affect what she's actually seeing like a augmented reality layover of the experience. A hippoc camp is nar like coloring the experience. So she sees that monster confirming that the whole thing is a supernatural dangerous thing. anxiety is is triggered. Anxiety is through the roof. Now she goes to bed the next day and she has it again because of the anxiety and the expectation of the monster coming back. A a week later she develops what we can say um beliefs about this monster personally personally targeting you as a person. It's coming after me. It's it wants my soul. So she develops like a lot of anxiety and trauma and then she goes around tells her friends around it as well and we turned out it turns out in places like Egypt and Italy it's twice as common versus places like Denmark. Not only is it per individual three times more common for the person versus another person with sleep paralysis but in the general population it's about twice as common because it spreads like a virus in this way we think. Interesting. It's interesting. I want to give you one last experiment on this just to illustrate this. This was done by my colleague McNali, Richard McNal at Harvard. It's a great study. This is when I was a kid in high school yet when he did these experiments. He had somebody who thought that sleep paralysis was space alien abduction. In fact, this is one interpretation of sleep paralysis in the United States is space alien abduction. Aliens coming down on ships. You're paralyzed. You can't move and they are probing on you, taking out seammen, and doing things to you. So this is one version of the sleep paralysis uh one explanation, one cultural specific explanation. Now when these guys narrate their encounter on a on on tape, they narrate it and and record it and then listen to that. They listen to their own story, their own encounter. I was the the mantra, the alien came down and all that. And then you measure their physiological reaction to it, their sweating, their heart rate, their their pulse. It's as profoundly provoked and active as somebody who was has PTSD from war. Wow. Wow. So you actually have one person went to war, experienced explosions, war, death, and you measure their physiological reactions when they listen to nar audio tapes of their own ter own like traum traumatizing experiences and compare that with the guy who talked about an alien. Mind you, this guy is actually just sleeping and they're comparable. They're the same. That's why I say for me sleep paralysis might be one of the most one of be most fascinating conditions entirety of medicine because you know sleeping should be the safest of all yet you have this craziness. I'm going to my wife had an episode of sleep paralysis and I'm going to say I'm going to explain it. I'm not going to go into a ton of detail and I'll I will ask her permission afterwards if it's okay if we use this and then if not we'll just cut it. We were in our our first house which was in a uh um down in it was in Gardener Gardennardville, Nevada, which is near uh Lake Tahoe down on the Nevada side in the valley. Yeah. Um there was a couple of interesting things that had happened to begin with when the the uh Time Warner cable person or Spectrum or whatever had come over to set up the internet. He uh there was Indian reservations nearby and he was a Native American fellow. He walked in, stepped in the door, took a step back out, said, "Wow, your house needs to be saged. Something had happened here. I really don't feel comfortable here." Um, I don't remember if he ended up sending a different technician or not. But that really planted a seed in my wife and I head. We're like, "Wow, like this guy didn't even want to enter the house." He was like, "Something bad happened here, right?" Um, about two months later, my wife had an episode of sleep paralysis. It's the only one she's ever had. and where she was just that she was uh frozen up against the pillow. She was awake. Nothing had happened. Um shadowy figure, a woman walked in, came in and held her down and was violently shaking her and and she couldn't do anything about it. Um and then basically turned into a cloud and left. And she had talked about this uh with people for years and was well aware that she sounded sounded crazy when she explained it. And it was definitely an episode of like the way she described it. She was like, I was frozen. I was like, I was dreaming, but I was I couldn't do anything. I couldn't defend myself. And then she legitimately had PTSD from that to the point where I mean it affected her. Um, we ended up moving out of that house eventually cuz it was just like it affected her that much. The point is is me saying that like obviously knowing what I know about sleep paralysis, knowing that these things are very real, but also what I'm understanding now is perhaps the even the undertone of what was said by uh you know this gentleman saying like something bad happened here, right? It's almost like you create this uh I could see how a cultural narrative could impact what you see and who knows what's actually real or not. I mean, maybe maybe it's cultural narrative. Maybe it's actually real in that culture will be more like spiritually aware and aware of these things, right? Where it might be in a in an area like Denmark, maybe they're a little more closed off to those like spiritual experiences. A place in Egypt, they might be very open to that. Um, so it's just a reality for them. Whereas again, in another region, it's just that's just not a reality. Like in the US, in the US, not a very spiritual place, but aliens would make more sense, right? Yeah. Yeah. That's Wow. Wow. That's amazing. from one experience you do one experience and she and I mean I can't say it was clinical PTSD but it rocked her let me just say that I mean it it rocked her at a point where it's like that was an experience that changed her that's fascinating that's really fascinating because usually what happens is that it's multiple experience like small traumas because they have it over and again so if it's one profound experience that's really like that's case case study stuff I mean that's really that's that's really intriguing actually yeah she'll be she'll be she'll be I think excited that I even brought it up. It's hard to get validation with something like that. No, it definitely is very very true. Even my own experiences profoundly changed me. I mean, we talked about earlier how dreams can affect you. Well, this is an example of a dream type scenario where you are deeply affected to the extent that you develop mental disorder that your brain literally will change it structure. So in people with PTSD, the brain structure will change. um when they develop the PT PTSD the the hippocampus will shrink the amydala will balloon up the prefrontal will shrink I mean you have literal structural changes and so from just sleeping which should be the safest of all and here you are you know having encounters with intergalactic aliens and you know seeing witches and all this crazy stuff so it's it's it's insane and even beyond this you know that during sleep paralysis you can also have an out-of- body experience I don't want to go go off tangent too much. But just to add to the whole flavor of the craziness, occasionally you will have an out-of- body experience where you feel like you're floating out in space. So you see a copy of yourself hovering over you and it's typically it's so I've had this I saw a copy of Balant hovering hovering over me and the topic of conversation is usually who's the real me? The balant up here or the balant down there? So there's a hijacking of identity almost. It's crazy. And again it has to do with the part of the brain we mentioned earlier called the TPJ. the center part of the brain that has to do with a sense of body image creating a sense of a self. That region of the brain is disrupted during sleep paralysis and during dreams. And so you can have out of body experiences like this. In fact, if I was to zap that part of the brain when you're awake and you literally have an out of- body experience when you're awake. So, so we know this. So, there's a brain structure and activation that can explain all this. But I want to add something here because you you mentioned a great point about what's actually real and what's not real. Because as a person, I want to just make it clear that I'm actually a spiritual person myself. Despite having talked about science for the last I don't know long very long time. I'm very scientific. I do science in my lap. But I'm open to spiritual experiences. I'm open to the fact that spiritual experiences can be real. I don't I don't suggest science can science can explain all. I'm just hyper truthful to the science and then say some things we cannot explain. What's the soul? What's the is there anything beyond matter? But I'm I'm so truthful though that I say well I want to explain all this in the brain because there are things we do know. And so I I rely on that to explain things that can be explained but obviously we can't negate things that are outside the realm of science. So I just want to add that though. I mean, actually, the more that I learn about neuroscience, the more it actually edifies some of my like spiritual beliefs and thoughts and experiences. It's just like, okay, well, it's not that there's there's a reason to why this is happening. It's more so there's a reason that anything could happen. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. This is true. This is true. It's uh, you know, and it's like, you know, much of science becomes so myopic. And the thing I love about like your field is that it's it's actually in a lot of ways it's it's the opposite of that. It's eye opening and it's expansive and you realize that um and I think that you know we live in an era where it's uh everyone just wants to follow the science all the time and reality is that that's that's that's living in the immediate past right you know it's like then there's this whole world beyond that look this is very true as I as I as I always say I you know this is an example that I that I've used so many times is look if I was to tell you hundred years ago that on your skin right now there's a trillion of small animals crawling there you would say I'm crazy before the before the microscope they would they would think you're being insane or that you can chat with somebody but looking at a box and he's in Australia and you're talking to him and you're looking at a box how's that possible right but we know that science right so things that are beyond the the the capabilities of the human brain right now doesn't negate the fact that you could have spiritual dimensions right now but they're invisible to us and so this is this is for a super scientist obviously I don't go into my lab and study spirituality, but you have to be open to this. Well, I mean, even any other, you know, Buddhist cultures and and Zen culture, I mean, that's the your thoughts are an additional sense. Oh, yeah. Right. I mean, so it's just like and you think like what senses exist that we are just unaware of, subperceptible, right? It's just it would almost be it'd almost be foolish to think that they don't exist. Of course, there's other senses. I mean, we learn so much more. I mean, then you start bringing down to like how does how does EMF impact us? Well, there's a sense that we're unaware of, right? Like so it's uh so just keeping an open mind right and it's just I don't know it's it's fun and it it becomes a becomes a practice to keep an open mind and just enjoy the ride. It does it does and and and not to go too much down a rabbit hole but it's actually we have a structure. So the whole limbic structure we talked about before crucial for dreams dopamine and and and emotional salience of the world and gauging that whole that that that the world in an emotional way. It turns out people that have temporal lobe epilepsy, meaning neurons go ballistic and they fire, you know, in a crazy manner, meaning that you have what's called ephasement, kindling neurons are very hyperactive. These focal seizures, you will develop a strange syndrome where your personality become hyper religious and hyper cos like cosmic and spiritual. So you go around and say the whole world is spiritual. You become almost prophetic. You want to write down you can't contain your emotions to your own self. you want to write them down and become poetic. Um, so you have almost like a a spiritual personality being triggered merely from simply from the brain activity being hyperactive in a very localized region of the brain. Um, so it's it's quite fascinating what brain is up to. But then as one of my mentors mentioned uh neuroscientists of of great neuroscientists he said well look how do we know that God is not actually communicating through these chosen people by activating their their their um temporal loes. So it's almost how you look at it that's critical, right? So we as a science as a scientist, we describe the phenomena, the neurons involved and the regions and what's going on, the circuits and systems, but we don't over interpret and negate things that we cannot negate. Yeah, well said. And it's like I always think is a thought is a thought before it ever became a thought. And who put the thought there, right? So it's who put the thought Yeah. And it's like that's just a mind-boggling question. It's almost a you know, a Zen Coan in a way where you just you think about these things that have no answer, but you just like just the sheer act of thinking about them. Oh yeah. Awakens you a little bit to think 100%. You know, and it's uh but again, you know, to bring a full circle back to the things I mean, it just makes you really want to take care of the organism, whatever it is we are, right? You know, like get your sleep get you take care of it. And it's uh um so even though you can get off into woo spiritual land really quick, I think you can also root it down to you know taking care of yourself or at least the image of yourself. Oh no, that's very true. I agree. Like taking care of yourself is is critical and and taking care of your sleep, your stress levels and not shrinking your your various parts of your brain that you need for for important tasks. This is so critical. I amen to that man. Well, where can everyone find you? Well, so I am on YouTube Dr. Balan Jalal. on my YouTube channel and I'm on Instagram at Balangel and Facebook at Balangel. So those would be the places. Right on, my man. Thank you, brother. Thank you, brother.