I just had my mind blown reading some scientific journals on vitamin D deficiency and a really interesting potential reason for it that a lot of us are probably dealing with. Now, we know when it comes down to metabolic health that the pancreas plays a huge role. Most of us know at least a little bit about pancreatic health because we know about beta cells. We know the pancreas produces insulin. But what a lot of us don't know is that the pancreas is also responsible for a lot of our digestive enzymes. And our digestive enzymes are responsible for breaking down fats and ultimately extracting fat soluble vitamins. Now what's interesting is that vitamin D is a fat soluble vitamin. Now this isn't just me connecting dots. There's legitimate research here and it was looking at what's called exocrine insufficiency or exocrine pancreatic insufficiency. So, it's where you are not producing enough digestive enzymes because your pancreas is stressed and underload and also inflamed. Now, what we don't always connect the dots with is that we think of pancreatic inflammation as like maybe pancreatitis. So, if you're not diagnosed with pancreatitis, you're not dealing with this issue. But, there's a very strong chance we are dealing with at least localized pancreatic inflammation. So, we're going to talk about that and talk about vitamin D, how you can potentially correct some of these issues. Down below, I put a 30% off discount link for your entire grocery cart with Thrive Market. That's 30% off all your food. Food is expensive right now. So, Thrive Market offering up a 30% discount on your entire first grocery order is pretty awesome. And that's exclusive to my link down below in the top line of the description. Thrive Market's not a regular grocery store. It's not like that. It's not like getting food on Amazon. They really do only allow good quality ingredients onto their shelves. That's it. Okay? They focus on high quality. They focus on things like what is Europe doing? Why do people like European food so much? Oh, because they're not using these added ingredients. So, they put those things on their shelves and they make them accessible to everyone. So, I love what they're doing, but also I love saving money. So, that 30% off discount link plus a free $60 gift is yours to try. So, down below topline in the description. So, let's talk about a study that was published in the journal Pancreas first so that we can understand how serious this is. Okay. What they did is they looked at people that had varying levels of pancreatitis. Okay. So, that tells us there's inflammation. They found that 84% of these people ended up having some level of digestive enzyme insufficiency. Okay, exacrine, which is basically digestive enzymes, exacrine insufficiency. What they found is that 35% of the people that had this insufficiency had a vitamin A deficiency. Okay, that's a lot and that's bad. Vitamin A deficiency is bad. But over 62% had a vitamin D deficiency. What this is telling us is that we're not just looking at correlation here. There's some strong links with not being able to break down vitamin D. Okay. Now, vitamin D, of course, we do get from the sun. That's very important. The UVB light and the whole hydroxy vitamin D, that whole cycle. But there's also even some evidence that the gut could play a role there, too. But I'm not going to get into that. But from a digestive perspective, we still get a fair bit of our vitamin D from diet to the point where if we're not breaking down fats properly, then there's no way we're going to extract the vitamins, the fats, soluble vitamins that we need. and the fact that we're seeing it not just with vitamin D, but we also saw it with other dietary fats soluble vitamins, vitamin A and vitamin E, which you do not get from the sun. So, okay, connecting the dots there. That's pretty clear. Bottom line is how do we improve this? How do we improve our vitamin D? But more so, how do we take this stress off the pancreas, right? But one of the most interesting things that I found recently was a study that was published in scientific reports that was actually looking at the load on the liver and how that would have spillover into the pancreas. So basically if the liver is under stress from high oxidative load, high inflammation, poor diet, then it has to work hard. And when it's ALT and A goes up, those liver enzymes, we often see a spillover of pancreatic inflammation because the pancreas is then dealing with oxidative stress. So there's two ways we need to go about this. And it's not just adding more vitamin D because if you add more vitamin D to your diet and potentially even supplement it, we can't guarantee you're going to have the enzymes to absorb it and utilize it properly. So we need to actually tackle these things first. A scientific report study actually looked at NAC an acetylcysteine which I've talked about in other videos before but knack is awesome. It's a precursor to cyine which is the rate limiting step in the natural production of glutathione. So glutathione is getting produced and therefore the liver is able to detoxify a little bit better. And we've seen in this literature that there's strong decreases in ALT, A and even ALP which is not usually talked about. And the fact that these decreased only when NAC was on board tells us that the liver was under stress. Okay. Because by increasing glutathione we decrease these enzymes. Now if we decrease these enzymes via other mechanisms it would tell us something different. But in this case clearly the liver is under load. Okay so that is one way using things like an acetylcysteine consuming sultheraphane. Okay broccoli sprouts broccoli that you chop up right because it's going to activate that allisonin from garlic. These are all ways to kind of activate that NRF2 pathway but also support glutathione production. So very important there. Okay. The other thing that you can do is there was a study in POS1 that was really fascinating where they used green royos like Royos tea. They used green royos and they found that royos had such a potent flavonoid antioxidant effect that it actually restored some of the beta cell function. It actually reversed some of the diabettogenic stress and it stopped some of the apoptosis of the beta cells. Now beta cells don't have anything really to do with the overall kind of exocrine enzyme function but what they do have something to do with is the overall load on the pancreas. So if the pancreas is stressed and inflamed and oxidized and we can reduce that in one way or another we can restore again some of that pancreatic health. Now the other thing that I would recommend here is that vitamin D and vitamin A work very close together believe it or not okay and even omega-3s have a play in here. the omega-3s all they all work together to what are called pro-resolving mediators. So they actually kind of balance an inflammatory cascade and prostaglandins and all kinds of different cytoine responses. There was an interesting study that was published in the journal nutrients that looked at eight different randomized control trials and it found as far as pancreatic inflammation in people that were dealing with acute pancreatitis omega-3 supplementation reduced their mortality, reduced the length of hospital stay and reduce the complications and of course reduce the inflammation itself. I like cod liver oil because it contains vitamin A which inflamed pancreas is probably going to be deficient in vitamin D deficiency right and then we have omega-3s plus the pro-resolving mediators cod liver oil as long as you don't overdo it is hugely promising in a lot of different ways but in this particular case looking at what would result from pancreatic inflammation or poor pancreatic health. So this whole vitamin D deficiency thing we have to look more than just we're not getting sun. I know lots of people that are getting sun and are not synthesizing vitamin D properly and they have low vitamin D. We have to look at the actual underlying issues, not just the vitamin D deficiency. That is really just sort of a downstream effect of it. So, as always, keep it locked here in my channel. See you tomorrow.