Dr. Scott, what is wrong with nicotine? >> Well, nicotine has everything right and everything wrong, depending on who you ask, but it's been around a long, long time, and it's a fantastic compound, Thomas. The problem is that it's been vilified because it's in cigarettes, it's in tobacco containing products, and smoking it and vaping it is not a good idea. And high doses of nicotine are certainly addictive, especially when vaped or smoked. and even more addictive if you add the additives that are in nicotine containing products like cigarettes, like vaping products. But nicotine itself at low doses is actually one of the most wellstudied compounds on the planet as a cognitive enhancer, as something that decreases inflammation in the brain, that actually improves your immune system, that actually can calm down your body while it stimulates your brain at the same time. So, it's a very very powerful and very misunderstood neutropic really. but not only a neutropic but an anti-inflammatory with significant immune system benefits as well. >> So, how does it work from an anti-inflammatory perspective? That's kind of news to me. >> Yeah. So, nicotine binds when you get into the system, hopefully not vaping it or smoking it by binding to something called the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor in the brain. Not only in the brain, in the body too. This is important. I'll tell you why in a minute. So when that happens, well again it was actually named the nicotinic receptor because they found it using nicotine as an analog to figure all of this out interestingly enough like biochemistry. But so the nicotinicoline receptor when nicotine binds to it, it releases dopamine, your reward hormone, we reward neurotransmitter, excuse me, norepinephrine, epinephrine, and it releases glutamate as well. And so glutamate is you're an excitatory neurotransmitter. It makes you feel on. Okay? So you have dopamine, you have norinephrine, you have epinephrine, and you have glutamate. So you feel and the fifth one I'm sorry is acetylcholine as well and that's going to be the most important actually when it comes to the immune system. So so dopamine is going to make you feel good. That's the reward neurotransmitter. So it's dopamineergic drugs and compounds that give you the addictive capacity, right? Then you have norepinephrine and epinephrine which make you feel on and awake and alert. And you have glutamate which gives you more of that awake and alertness and the capacity to just to maintain your your activation for long periods of time. It's a sympathetic activation. So those this sort of this ecosystem of of neurotransmitters you've just released gives you sympathetic activation is what what's going on. However, which is interesting is that acetylcholine is a little bit different. Acetylcholine makes your mind able to think clearer. Makes it you have just more clarity of thoughts. You have the capacity to just follow thoughts and track things and just do better. And so what happens with acetylcholine is that it's really important for your mind and for how your mind works. But in addition to that, acetyloline also powers a nerve in our body called the vagus nerve. The vagus nerve is our whining nerve that's coming from our brain. And the vagus nerve is a parasympathetic nerve. So it actually calms down the firing of your heart of or it regulates things from a a parasympathetic perspective. So if you have more acetylcholine that's powering or innervating the vagus nerve, you're actually going to calm down and relax your body while you're stimulating your brain. So people that smoke cigarettes, this is what they'll often say is that they feel stimulated, but they feel relaxed at the same time. And that's because the acetylcholine is actually boosting the vagus nerve and calming you down. And so even low doses will do this. You'll feel this if you're if you're using low doses of nicotine. You'll feel stimulated, but you won't feel overactivated. Your body won't feel like it's on edge typically, you know, and that's because the nicotine is also working on this parasympathetic side of things too outside the central nervous system. But it's also that acetylcholine that's binding to various receptors in the brain that's decreasing inflammation. It's decreasing the TNF alpha pathways, the IL1 and IL6 I believe as well. So you're actually having micro ga which are the type of immune cells in our brain calm down and relax. And so we're using nicotine a ton in people with chronic complex medical illness, chronic infection, chronic issues with inflammation in their brain, neuroinflammation. You can give them nicotine and their neuro their brain inflammation gets better very very fast. You can use it in a loss, you can use it in a troy, you can use patches, all different types. But what you find is that their cognition gets better. So memory, focus, attention, recall, verbal fluidity, all of those things. And also their brain function, their brain inflammation goes down too. And I can measure this. I can see various measurements looking at various ratios of organic acids and see neuroinflammation go down by using nicotine. So it's a very cool compound. I also put a link down below for Thrive Market. The reason that I trust Thrive Market is because they vet all their products. So, they put them through the ringer when it comes to sourcing, when it comes to their ingredient quality. So, I trust Thrive Market when it comes to that. That link down below is for 30% off your full grocery order through Thrive Market. So, check it out. That's 30% off plus a free $60 gift. So, load up your grocery cart. It's a great place to get groceries and have them delivered to your doorstep no matter where you live in the country. So, link is down below. What about these, you know, like nicotine pouches where people are, you know, doing like two times 7 milligram pouches, you know, you got a lot >> The problem is the dose. Yeah. >> Yeah. Because that's that's where I see things. It it becomes, you know, firefighters specifically. It's like I know a very big thing. I've got a lot of firefighters in my family and it's like they're they're pounding those things like 7 milligrams every 15 minutes. I mean, it's like boom boom boom boom boom. And I think that's um a does the delivery system even when it's oral or bal does that does it matter like if it's in a synthetic like um powder in like a pouch that doesn't seem like maybe that's greatest I don't know um is it just the the repeat dosing like what does it feel like if you don't use it? Um and like where's the threshold for most people? >> Yeah, the threshold is at least it studies around 5 milligrams per day. If you're having more than 5 milligrams of nicotine per day, you might build tolerance to it and need more and more. The challenge with nicotine as a result of what you're just describing with your family members is that it's short acting. It only lasts for about an hour to about 2 hours. And so that's that's great actually in some ways. You can get like a nice boost of cognition, of focus for that period of time, but then you're going back to the way you felt before. And so the faster the nicotine gets in the body, the more you're going to have that want to redose kind of thing because it's going to come down faster as well, right? So your nicotine is going to, you know, cause this one to two hours of boost. Um, but if you if you have it certain ways, it's going to happen fast. It's like smoking it and vaping it, you're like the immediate hit of the nicotine, right? And as a result of that, like you're going to feel you're going to come down pretty quickly from that, right? With a troy or loenge, it does take a little bit longer for a ramp up. typically around 15 or 20 minutes. Um, but it's still going to be last only a couple hours when it comes up. Um, and then the addictive cap capacity really is how fast it hits you. But that's one piece of it. And the other one is how often you're using it and how much you're taking, right? And that's what where we get to about 5 milligrams a day or above becomes potentially giving you tolerance even if you're using patches actually. So if you're using a nicotine patch and there's a number of different patches you can get out there and there's some you can cut up as well. So if you're using like a lowd dose patch, I think it's around 7 milligs, you can actually find some patches you can cut up and make smaller patches from that or like you know cut it into quarters or something like that. Um but even what you'll find is even people that are using nicotine patches over time will need to step up their dose to get the same effect over time. So there is some tolerance that's happening there and you can get some on the other side of things, you can get some withdrawal from nicotine. It's not like serious going to kind of withdrawal, but it's because you've been in this sympathetic activation now for a long time and your body's depleted all these neurotransmitters and hormones, including cortisol as well. But especially these neurotransmitters. So over time, you're going to have a place where nicotine you need more and more to get the same effect if you're using it a lot. But if you're keeping it less than 5 milligrams a day, you're not smoking it or vaping it, it's very rare to get addicted. It's very, very rare to see tolerance. Do you do you crash from nicotine at a low dose in the same way that you crash from caffeine or do you just return to baseline? Because I feel like caffeine, the best way to put it, I feel like I'm borrow borrowing from tomorrow for today and then you know you feel great and then you you crash and you were worse than you were before >> um at a moderate dose nicotine. Is there a subtle crash or do you just come back to baseline? >> The key is to where you're starting off where you are you starting off from a place that you're already relatively depleted or you a place where you're relatively like repleted. So you're relatively optimized. If you're relatively optimized, nicotine is what we call a performance enhancing neutropic. It clocks the system to make more energy. There's no doubt about it. So you're going to be making more energy with all those neurotransmitters that have been sent out because of that binding to the nicotenic acetylcoline receptor. So is your body able to tolerate the stress of making more energy? It's the same thing with caffeine to some degree is that is your body able to tolerate the stress of caffeine coming in there and shooting up your you know your cortisol and increasing your norepinephrine and so you can have a crash after nicotine too. Absolutely. But the difference is that it's typically a lower dose. So you don't have like significant like up and down like it's typically not as big of a crash for people that take nicotine especially if you start off at super low doses. like start off like a half a milligram or like a milligram of of nicotine is a pretty small dose and most people won't have a significant crash, but it's an indicator if you do that you're already probably somewhere in the system deficient and having some you know toxicity whether it be you're always in the sympathetic nervous system. You're always in fight or flight and so you don't have a lot of reserve to go even higher and then when you do the system can't tolerate that because there's not a lot of you know energy you can make that's going to be made efficiently. you're going to have more anti more oxidative stress and you're going to have more like incapacity over time. So that's why you get that kind of crash feeling. They're antioxidant deficient. So I think for me the way I think about it is that neutropics, these brain enhancing compounds, you have ones that are performance-enhancing. So they help you perform a task better, but they may may not be necessarily healthy for the brain, right? And you have other ones that are, you know, we call health optimization neutropics. These are ones that are more supportive for the brain, that are healthier for the brain, and they're not clocking the system at the same time. Like a good example of this would be something like elyroine, for example. Elyroine is a amino acid that increases your production of norepinephrine and dopamine, right? But it's an amino acid. So it has the the natural sort of progression in the body where you start off as an amino acid, you make your dopamine, you make your norepinephrine, and you have feedback loops that'll help you the body decide the brain decide actually how much to make. Right? That's a that's a health optimization neutropic because it is going to increase your dopamine and norepinephrine, but it's doing it in more of a a synergistic way with the body as opposed to something like nicotine or caffeine which are more like performance-enhancing neutropics where they may not necessarily be healthy for the brain, right? But they can help you do something a task for a certain period of time. And that's you the basics of all this Thomas for me is like well if you want to have an optimized capacity to use a performance-enhancing neutropic you better have a cell that's working well and optimizing that cell from the from the ground level. So you can measure energy metabolism you can measure toxicity you can measure vitamins, minerals and nutrients and co-actors. That's what we use something called metabolomics which is the study of small molecules that are happening in real time in the cell. you can measure real time how well a cell is working right now looking at this this field of metabolomics and so that's what we do that's what I do in clinical practice as well and we have a nonprofit that trains doctors on how to do it which is look at a metabolomic profile see what's happening on the ground from somebody's cellular perspective optimize in real time and then if you want to have true brain performance you have to have true cellular performance because the cell the basic cell runs all all of our tissue all of our organs and if you can optimize that basic excel then everything else on top of that becomes more effective like performance-enhancing neutropics like nicotine. Yeah, it's kind of I mean all I'm thinking when you say this is I think a lot of people have experienced being having a very poor night of sleep and having caffeine and it gets you through that kind of hurdle but then you and crash really bad and then there's times when you slept really good. You kind of don't need caffeine but you have it anyway and it gives you it's like a surplus. It gives you this extra and you actually don't crash from it, you know. And I've found that happen many times where it's like okay I I take you know a huge bulis of caffeine because I was sleep deprived and it was like even we know even after one night of sleep mitochondrial function diminishes tremendously temporarily right and your ability like oxid to phosphorilation goes to crap and it's just like even after just one night of poor sleep. So it's like here you are just adding jet fuel into this engine that just can't function properly right now. So probably a lot of what you're feeling in that crash is not only just coming back to baseline and worse, but you're also probably feeling a lot of oxidative stress. Like you're just like you just burned out essentially a cell that is in a mitochondria that's just not capable of handling that fuel right now. >> Yeah. The thing about nicotine also that's interesting and different from caffeine is what I was describing with the anti-inflammatory effects of it too. So you don't necessarily have a crash if you're already working on inflammatory pathways at the same time. So there's a little bit of a it's really kind of an interesting compound, right? It is helping with clocking the system, helping you make more energy. It's also decreasing inflammation at the same time. So, what I find in some people is that they don't get a crash with the nicotine even if they are in that sympathetic state because you're decreasing brain inflammation. And that's an interesting kind of nuance there where caffeine you do often see crashes that people are kind of, you know, paying the the piper later and like they're trying to get more energy now. They don't have the capacity. But with nicotine, it's a little more nuance, especially if you keep the dose low. And I've used it in patients with like long COVID and chronic inflammatory issues where like they see their brain just start turning back on instead of any crash. They just feel like they can think again. They can feel they can their their cognition is better. Their memory is better. And then when it wears off, they don't have that return because you've decreased inflammation along the way. And I think that's a very interesting additional aspect of nicotine that is not well it's not really talked about a lot because we think of nicotine as this perform performance enhancer we don't think about it as this fantastic anti-inflammatory and working on decreasing immune system reactivity in the brain. So if you think about it right if your brain's really inflamed and you can't think well because of inflammation and you give the give some nicotine for example that's helping with some of these neurotransmitters and cognition and it's also helping with inflammation at the same time. You might actually take your nicotine and then you might actually feel better for like a couple days. And I've seen this actually with some of my patients. It's like they take the nicotine and they actually feel better for a number of days because they just had that one dose because the inflammation in their brain has gone down too. So if you have a lot of brain inflammation and you take nicotine and you feel good for days or if you take nicotine and you feel good for days, it's likely you know you're also addressing some element of brain inflammation. And we have brain inflammation from any number of things now these days from medications and toxins on our environment to pollution and and to sympathetic activation for long periods of time. Like there's lots of different reasons, but um that can cause inflammation, immune system dysregulation. That's actually kind of a telltale sign for me when I see people that have like, oh, I took nicotine once and I felt great for days. Like that's a good that's a sign that there's brain inflammation that we need to address. >> Is there's a is there an imunomodulatory effect of nicotine as well? I know it can I mean it has some potential use cases there. >> Yeah. Yeah. And that's kind of what we're driving at here is that what it does is actually decreases inflammatory cytoines and mediators things like IL1 is 6 TNF alpha as well and I think also the NFCappa B pathway if I'm not mistaken. So these are all inflammatory pathways that are normal for us to have an acute inflammatory response. But you and I know that people don't just have an acute inflammatory response or acute stress response anymore. they have these long-term exposures where they're continuing to have, you know, inflammatory responses because of these exposures. And so when it comes down to nicotine itself having this anti-inflammatory effect, the main cell that's been studied in the in the brain that we've noticed is uh is the microglea. Microglea are like your immune cells in the rest of your body, but in your brain when the microglea get activated, they actually put down amaloid. You know that plaque that you've heard of for Alzheimer's and things like that. We used to think that the amaloid hypothesis for for Alzheimer's was that it was the plaques themselves causing Alzheimer's disease, right? But now we know you can rip all the plaques out of somebody's head, metaphorically speaking, and like you try drugs like this to take away the plaque and people's brain function doesn't get better. Well, why? It's actually because those are reactive to immune system activation. They're reactive to the immune system being overactivated. And then what they do in a a defense mechanism is use these amaloid plaques to try to pro protect the brain. But over time that also causes damage to the brain too. So it's a very interesting thing that's happening there. Right. So these immune cells these microglea are like the the engines of the immune system in the brain. And what methane excuse me not methane blue what nicotine can do uh what nicotine can do is downregulate that immune system response and actually re re reccalibrate it so it's it's better. that's more optimized and you still have to look at the inputs. Let's look at you know why is the immune system so activated in the brain but short term you can use something like nicotine to decrease immune system activation in the brain and you can use other compens compounds of course as well to decrease immune system activation and I have many in my arsenal that I like I like you know a couple from a mushroom you know called cortiseps for example the cortisepin which is really awesome but and then there's many other things optimizing metabolomic data like looking at vitamins minerals nutrients optimizing the gut optimizing the bloodb brain barrier because if you have a leaky gut you also have a leaky brain leaky guts leaky brains allowing things into the brain that shouldn't get in there going to cause more immune system activation. Right? So if your brains, this is actually a classic thing that we saw like around time frame was that people had these reactivations of mold or lime or of abine bar and things like that after they had infection. Why? That's because their bloodb brain barrier suddenly just got leaky as hell. And then all these infections and things that they had and people had when they were younger that were cordoned off and so the immune system was keeping it at bay suddenly just kind of went crazy and then got into the brain because the bloodian barrier was leaky and allowed them in and then all of a sudden they have brain fog. They can't think and they have like longines of symptoms, right? And so you have to optimize the brain barrier. You have to optimize the gut. You have to address the inputs that are still ongoing. But an immediate benefit of decreasing inflammation in the brain is that people feel better. I mean, I've I've seen this like I had somebody recently actually that took some nicotine in front of me, had this detox reaction, and then the next day she got her smell back. She had lost her smell and it was back and she was like, and my mind is, it was the clearest it had been in like years that she said. And so, and that was very interesting to me. This is like a number of years now, years ago. And I'm like, well, this is what's happening, right? where her response wasn't a cognitive response initially. It was purely an anti-inflammatory response. And so that's super interesting that this particular compound that's been vilified. I mean, when I was growing up, like we I was a DARE kid, right? We went on the buses and we learned about how smoking is bad for you and don't do drugs and all those kinds of things. And and I don't want people to think that smoking cigarettes or vaping is a good idea. As we talked about, too high of a dose, all the other things that are in those products, you don't want to put anything into your lungs that's not air. ideally not polluted air would be good too. Um, and so I just think that it's it's amazing we're having these kinds of conversations about, you know, compounds that can be very very helpful that have been vilified for just way too long. >> So what are some um ways that we can maybe optimize the use of nicotine, right, without So let's say if someone is going to take nicotine, how can they protect themselves? How can they optimize it so they can get do more with less, right? Um you talked about like um acetylcholine like I was actually curious like if you ever thought about like combining nicotine with like alpha GPC like to try to to actually like get more of that calming effect. >> Yeah, you can. And actually people do that all the time. Yeah. Because you want to give substrate, right? Then what I mean by substrate is that you want to give the brain its building blocks so that it can make the things that you want it to do, right? So what are the building blocks? Like we're talking about amino acids here, right? We're talking about like I was talking about elyroine earlier, right? You need to have enough elyroine to be able to make enough norepinephrine and dopamine, right? If you don't have enough of that, you're not going to make enough. It's just what that's just how it goes, right? And if you're not getting good sources of amino acids, it's a big deal. And so, you want to think about what are the substrates that are required for you to make the the effect happen most optimally. And then even deeper than that, as we were talking about, is that you want to think, well, how do I have a cell in in my do the cells in my body make energy effectively? Do they have the capacity to make energy well? Do they have the capacity to manage the stress of making energy as well? Meaning, do they have enough antioxidant capacity? Things like glutathione, enough acid. And even people don't know this, but melatonin, yes, we make it in our brain to help us sleep, but is actually the most one of the most, if not the most powerful antioxidant in our mitochondria to help reduce oxidative stress. So, do you have these kinds of capacities or do you not? Right? So doing lab testing and getting a sense of this can be very very helpful because then you know exactly what you need to do to optimize you know your gut your vitamins, minerals and nutrients um if you have toxic exposures like these things are all going to be detrimental to your to your um your actual experience with with nicotine if they're not optimized. So it's, you know, but you can also use it as we talked about as an anti-inflammatory along the way in low doses. And I found that as long as you use very very low doses, but in general to optimize your experience, you want to have optimized cells, you want to optimize substrate for all the neurotransmitters that you want released, you can think about additional adjuncts like alpha GPC and and even choline itself, you know, that you can take as a with with your with taking the nicotine on top of it as a way to support the capacity for you to have more of the effect that you want or you don't want, right? So the the acetylcholine response is probably the most interesting because you do have this sort of reflexive parasympathetic response on the vagus nerve itself that actually improves your HIV interestingly enough you know so you see people that are using low doses of nicotine they will see their HIVs improve often times as well if they're keeping it low like less than 5 milligrams a day. So uh what about like in this case like the even the use of uh like methylene blue to sort of help the mitochondria essentially convert energy better, right? Kind of improve the efficiency of like electron transport chain. Is there an intersect there where nicotine or methane blue can make nicotine work better if someone has like a dysfunctional mitochondria and it's just kind of adding a little more fuel to this uh mitochondrial fire. >> For sure. Yeah. So the way I think about methane blue here is uh is that is actually a combination of both a performance optimization neutropic as well as a health optimization neutropic. It does both at the same time because it enhances some of the neurotransmitters. It actually increases norepinephrine, dopamine and serotonin. It also in in addition works on the mitochondria to help support energy and detoxification. So you have this dual capacity of methylene blue helping energy, helping detox and also helping with performance on some level because it has those neurotransmitters that do increase when you take it. Not not a lot. It's it's also dose dependent. Like low doses of methane blue don't do it a lot, but higher doses will do do it more, right? And so when you bring methylene blue on board, you add it to nicotine for example, it's a fantastic combination because you have the nicotine, you have the stimulation, but you also have the support of having the methylene blue on board. So that the energy production side is not deterred or it's not the garbage collection side of making energy is supported by using methylene blue too. So it's al it's enhancing energy methylene blue but also enhancing enhancing detox. And so I use them in combination a ton. I also use it in combination with other other things that help optimize the you optimize the mitochondria. Right? It could be something like like sometimes even a little bit of caffeine can be nice here, right? A little bit of caffeine like low dose can help stimulate your capacity to make energy, right? you know that. But if only you keep the dose low and you have some methylene blue on board which is helping with that redux side of things. You don't seem to have the crash as much as you would if you just you know burnt yourself on a huge amount of coffee. Like low doses synergistic the sum is greater than the parts kind of deal right. So a little bit of nicotine a little bit of caffeine like a little bit of methylene blue can go a long long way. It's supporting giving you focus productivity really feeling like you can get things done without you know the crash at the end which is what you know what none of us really want. >> Yeah. You've got some cool products. I'll link out to them as well, like uh just blue, like the methylene blue. Yeah. Which is something that um you know, I have used specifically with nicotine, but also on days that I'm not using nicotine. It's just something that um we've done other videos on this. So definitely people can check those out, but I'll link out to that down below with a discount because I mean, I think that, you know, saying it very short, people generally when they think of methylene blue, I think they think too much. They take too much. I mean, for me, I take like four milligrams. I take a really low dose. um for me moderately infrequently a couple times a week you know or so it's it's something where I think if people are taking you know 50 100 milligrams something crazy like that every single day then yeah that's probably not good >> right the mitochondrial dose is around 4 to 8 millig to about 25 millig like that's the sweet spot for most people if you start doing too much of that it can start causing stress on the system over time it won't be like a huge amount like until you get to about 2 milligs per kilogram about 150 milligs or above That's when you start causing you significant stress very very quickly. But you can actually I use those high doses as an anti-infective sometimes. But shortterm like long-term mitochondrial support 4 8 25 milligs max. And you have to be careful as you know and you know we've talked about this in other videos about quality of methylene kind of where you're getting it from because like the liquids out there are typically not very potent compared to their labels often contaminated with heavy metals. Just be aware what you're getting it. Don't buy them on Amazon. like they say they're from United States and they'll take 3 weeks to get through customs and that kind of thing. And so it's it's a big deal. So be careful what you're getting out there. Not all liquids none of liquids that we tested actually met label claims for potency. So we you know it's it's a big I think it'd be a great great addition. Just if I just get it from a good reputable, you know, reputable source. >> Yeah. I think I think people I've kind of experimented with you know people in my own family where it's like okay nicotine if they take x amount if they take two milligrams or even a low dose they feel they feel good but when they take it with methylene blue it's like hey this is cleaner it's like the gears actually meshed and and something kind of kind of clicked. So I think that's a really good combination. And then regarding so I'll link out to everything below but regarding nicotine like what's the minimum effective dose because I've felt it literally on like a half milligram. I mean, it can even lower than that sometimes. Like we have people that combine like a 0.25 milligrams of nicotine with like how much? Like 12.5 millig of caffeine and maybe like 2.5 milligrams. No, 1.25 milligrams of methylene blue is like just a small amount in like in a trophy style. That does great. That's my dose. That's my dose. That's all I need. Right. And so I mean I think about the sensitivity to nicotine does definitely dramatically change. It's a huge spectrum, but it also depends on kind of what you're looking for, right? It's also like some people have significant anti-inflammatory response at very low doses, but no neutropic response. Some people have a neutropic response, but no no inflammatory response until like a higher dose. It's very very personalized, very very individualized. So I what I would recommend is like if you're looking for nicotine sources, you have to be very careful out there, right? Because also those can be contaminated, those could be very much higher doses than they should be. And so you want to be careful, get cleaning clean sources if you're going to do it. But in general, I think it's a great addition to to a stack to use periodically. I don't think it should be used every day. And I think it's something that can be used as a way to kind of get yourself more focused productivity, like especially combined with something like methylene blue can be fantastic. >> Cool man. Well, I'll I'll link out to methylene blue and the other one called Tromune, which is another one that's probably good from the anti-inflammatory side. >> Great immune system support. Yeah. >> So, I'll link out to both those down below. And Scott, as always, where can everyone find you, Matt? >> Oh, yeah. So, check it out. Check us out at Transcriptions. Transcription, that's my company. It's called Transcriptions. Um, and we have you can find us on Instagram at transcriptionscriptions.com. My website's my name, drcotchure.com, d rs c o tts hr.com. You can find all the links out to my consulting and all the companies and things like that, too. But check it out at transcriptions. We have a lot of great products there as you know, and a lot of great ways to optimize your health and get those mitochondria working, get that brain working, and decrease some inflammation in the process. >> Right on my man. This way.