 forest, if you had to pick one place where inflammation starts, where would it be? I'm gonna have to give you two, if that's okay. So, one, traumatic tissue damage. So if you've had an ACL tear, if you have had a slap tear in your shoulder, if you've had traumatic tissue damage, a surgery anywhere in your body, one of the things that we've found long-term is that this really has a systemic impact from an inflammation standpoint, not just today, but ongoing. And so to put a little bit of color on that, there was a study of over 3,000 NFL players who've had ACL surgery. They've had ACL surgery, they've had recovery, they've had rehab from the best doctors and physios in the world. Then they come back to playing and then 10 to 20 years on, they have an increased cardiovascular disease risk of over 50%. So what we parse that back, and I say we, but I kind of as a broader medical research community, what we've parsed that back to is that traumatic tissue damage continues to generate inflammation and that hits you on the joint. So with an ACL, what you see is higher levels of inflammation in that synovial fluid and that will degrade the tissue, your soft tissue, your cartilage and that knee and you'll have 100% a higher rate of osteoarthritis. It'll also hit you regionally. So locally osteoarthritis regionally, we see poor blood delivery in the quad. And again, this is decades on. So you see colder tissue where there's less cardiovascular delivery of blood in the quad above that same knee. And then systemically, what we see is that you increase the rate of severe cardiovascular disease by over 50%. And that's again after all of the rehab. And so there are great ways to go back and address that with new technology. So that's the first one is traumatic tissue damage. And again, that can be from surgery, that doesn't have to be from an ACL tear. An ACL tears a great example for it because we have really good data around this. But that's from surgery, from tears, from really anything that's caused a traumatic tissue damage in your body. The second is environmental factors. And so this is the one where it's a little bit more invidious. It's much harder to go back and find the smoking gun for this one. But what we're seeing from the medical community around this, from a research standpoint is your gut is at the center of so much of this. So when you have inflammation, this can be caused by, again, metabolic disorder. So you start seeing your gut impacted by the fact that we're not training effectively from an energy generation standpoint. You can see diet impacting this. You can see microplastics impacting this. There's a lot of environmental factors that do impact your gut. And so how that presents from a gut and a pathology standpoint, from an inflammation trigger is you have inflammation in your gut. What keeps it from the rest of your body is a barrier, which is a mucosal lining, and then your gut, which has tight junctions. When you have these environmental factors that can erode that mucosal lining and that can erode and loosen those tight junctions, what you start seeing is, and this is better and better delineated by some very good recent research, is you start seeing systemic inflammation. And that really presents with stiffer cardiovascular endothelial tissue. And so that's one of the kind of early warning signs is, are you, are your pipes in your house rusty, and are they able to perform at the most effective that they could? And there's some very good tests on the plasticity of your cardiovascular endothelial tissue that really allow us to understand what risk people are at because of this, and then take that back in at a population level and understand how this has been impacted and how this has been generated from their guts coming into the rest of the body. So when you talk about, you know, environment, I mean, is the first step getting out of that environment? I mean, I look at things like, I mean, if we get down to the granular of it, I mean, even like EMF and mold and things like that are highly inflammatory, but those can be really difficult to get out of, right? I know like number one is like, get yourself away from whatever source is or whatever the problem is. That's easier said than done. But we know we're surrounded by EMF. We're starting probably seeing the, you ever see that, I don't know if it was ever fully published, but it's an interesting study on the mold and EMF relationship. You can see that one. It was really wild. But basically they basically mold in a self contained environment versus mold in a non-contained environment. So there was like 600X the amount of like spore production because essentially the mold would become stressed in an EMF environment. So as a stress response mold will like create more of itself. So it's, you know, this is becoming a bigger thing and it's becoming less fringe and more mainstream and that, okay, like this is a real thing, like mold and EMF are a very real thing. And, but the point I'm getting at is like, that's really hard for us to like step away from. Like get out of high EMF that is causing stress in the body and potential inflammation. So like what are, what are people supposed to do environmentally specifically? Environmentally, it's really difficult. I think one of the best responses that we're seeing at kind of a population level now is the increased number of functional medicine doctors that are out there that really recognize these problems and that are in the literature and provide solutions for being able to manage it. And so, you know, you can get out of the environment, you can at least manage the outcomes that it, that it kind of, and the stress that it puts on your body. And so there's some very good kind of methodologies that are developing for being able to both diagnose and then intervene with this. I think one of the other things that you can do is start intervening on the inflammatory responses that these trigger in your body, because that's really what mediates a lot of the, the negative outcomes. And we're seeing that more and more that the, the high leverage point is the inflammatory pathways. And if you can turn those off, then even if you're in these kind of negatively impacting environments, the outcomes that you see from that are, are much better and that you can manage these and still stay in a healthy metabolic state and still really keep a healthier cardiovascular endothelial tissue again, which is, is one of those canaries in the, in the coal mine, if that makes sense for, for being able to understand if it is impacting you negatively. Yeah. It seems like, I mean, a lot of it's this, you have a stimulus, you have something that's going to trigger an initial inflammatory response and then the rest is sort of it going haywire, right? Like that's the old cytokine storm, right? The idea of just like once, you know, you have the initial immune response and then you have just the cataclysmic like, you know, thing that's going off. So what are we learning now about being able to modulate that pathway? Because I mean, it's one of the most complex, I mean, they say that immunology is probably the most complex thing that we like, we pretty much know nothing about. We only know these little pieces. So, you know, barring that in mind, like how do we, how do we navigate some of these pathways and actually just get relief, right? Because chronic inflammation sucks. It doesn't feel good. And there's millions and millions and millions of people that deal with it and don't even know how to explain what they're dealing with. Yes, no, 100%. I think your gut is a very high leverage point for this. And so if you're able to, there's a number of different things you can do with probiotics, prebiotics, and then we also work with a lot of immunologists and it's been very exciting. We've developed a gut focused product to be able to help people tighten those tight junctions back up, make sure that you don't have inflammation leaking back into the rest of the body and then validate that. So let's kind of put data on this and measure those cytokine storms. And, you know, to put one more kind of risk factor out there for this, there's also a number of different things where you've seen, but not just, but a number of different kind of knock on effects from triggers for huge levels of inflammation going throughout the body. So if you can come back and treat your gut, this is a really good high leverage point where you can come back and reduce your systemic inflammation and get healthier because of that, even if the environmental factors are still there. And so, yeah, the combination of gut treatments from a laser therapy standpoint for being able to reduce the kind of inflammation ingut and then the leakage of that inflammation, what you'd really like to be able to do is make sure that you're mucosal lining and then the kind of that gut tight junction are the two kind of high leverage points for your gut from an inflammation standpoint. And yeah, the exciting thing about what we're doing for me, and again, I say we as a more as a broader medical community is and research community is we're getting back into points where you find these high leverage kind of 80, 20 touch points for being able to address inflammation. And when you can do that, you see the systemic impacts on cardiovascular endothelial tissue, but also on immune response. And for us, one of the most telling signs from their immune response is you can look at and measure ongoing rates of sickness and how you respond to those. But the biggest thing for this is being able to work with immunologists to be able to dive back behind what these mediating pathways are. And it's still early. So from an immunology standpoint, this is one of the I think most telling signs for this though is as we've been developing gut treatment from a laser therapy standpoint, we anticipated that we would be working with a lot of gastroenterologists on solving gut based issues because that's who deals with gut based issues. What we've actually found for this is a huge response from immunologists because they there's so many different immunology to a certain degree is still kind of a black box. You have a number of different variables that you can test and you have outcomes, but the pathways are so complex that it's really hard to come back and parse what's happening. But what we're seeing right now is massive immune and autoimmune benefits from being able to shore up and reduce the inflammation that's leaking out of the gut. And so to put a little color on that, the reduction of symptoms for asthma, reduction of symptoms for multiple sclerosis, there's really kind of powerful pathologies that are indicative of the impact that you can make from an immune response standpoint and from an autoimmune response standpoint. And so when you talk with immunologists, they're more focused on the outcomes and still digging back into what those mediating pathways are where gastroenterologists are great and they've been very supportive with having an additional device to be able to help particularly with recovery from different surgeries on the gut. Tissue recovery is great. Inflammation is great. But what we see is that the gut as an immune response and autoimmune response lever point is much more exciting for the immunologists than it is for the GIs. What about some things that people can do for gut barrier integrity? Have you looked into much with glutamine and things like that for does that make a dent in anything or is this deeper than just mucosal layer? It does make a dent. Actually, this is one of the things that we're... It's our next steps of research is how do we layer these things in... We've talked about vagus tone today. And so what we try to do with any type of successful treatment is layer it with things that are synergistic that work along separate pathways that can increase the benefits of any outcome that we're able to therapeutically derive. And so with the gut, there's a number of different methodologies for this. Gutamine and we have a number of different tests coming up with different labs around the US for this plan for 2026. But to be honest, right now, the data is very early. We're still seeing what it stacks most effectively with and testing our way through that. So if we look at... You come back to that initial study that you talked about with like the NFL players. That inflammation that is now essentially chronic as a result of a trauma, does that inflammation still epicenter from the gut? Or is that inflammation separate and apart? That's separate and apart. We do see that the gut is actually impacted negatively by that. And so it's additive and it actually triggers the gut in a negative way and then they become kind of mutually building. So the gut always becomes involved somehow. It's just the center of so much in our body. And I think one of the things that we're seeing right now from the medical research around this is that it's traditionally been thought of as the gut brain axis. But what we're finding right now is it's the gut brain, gut liver, gut skin. Like everything connects back to your gut. And it's referred to as your second brain for a good reason. There's really so much out of our daily cognitive performance. And you'll notice this, whether it's from having, if you start into fasting, you'll see an impact in your cognitive performance. If you start into different types of diets, if you're eating poorly, if you're drinking alcohol, so many of these things impact everything in your physiology that we're really at the kind of front end. It's really been over the last three to five years that we're starting to see people look at the kind of protein signaling pathways between the gut and the liver in specific. I know skin is an interesting one for a lot of people, but I think for me the most impactful ones will be gut liver communications and how those impact energy processing and inflammation more systemically in your body. Well, I mean, the skin may seem like a weird one, but I mean, it's such a giant organ. Yes. And it is sort of your walking billboard of your health in many ways. So it's very difficult to ignore it, but since it doesn't have the same path of physiology that maybe our organs do, but I would put money on the fact that there's not just a gut skin axis, there's a skin gut axis. So it's like the way that this thing that is the most visible and the most obvious is probably one of the things that we're ignoring the most because we view it as, well, this is just simply cosmetic or something like skin. Just like this meat suit that we're wearing is purely just for cosmetic and has no biological purpose whatsoever. But it was a Dom DiAgostino also said last week, it was really cool or two weeks ago. I was working out with him and he made a pretty bold statement. He was just like, I am now convinced that pretty much any, like the gut is any infectious response, anything, it can all come right back to the gut. He is basically saying that is it's like any or more so any compromised gut state of compromised gut health is directly ties to pretty much any, any illness or anything. So it's like basically your immune system really is starting there and it's not necessarily just the fact the literal immune system is there. It's a lot of questions that we don't have answers to, but it's much more like the lines are very clear. The lines are able to be drawn that this is where it begins. And you know, when you're stressed and it affects your gut and you get sick. Okay, what's not, it didn't just get sick because you're stressed. You got sick because your gut is inflamed and your gut is damaged because you were stressed. And that correlates with so much of the, you've all seen like the low back pain studies, right? That are directly correlated with high periods of stress, right? Okay. Well, now we can maybe triangulate that a little bit more. Those periods of stress, low back pain flare ups is that much more related to a gut issue that came as a result of the stress and the sort of preemptive like inflammatory response that came from the stress that queued you up, you know, from a gut perspective, set the stage for you to throw out your back. That's exactly it. And I'll give you one more example. We've been working with a lab in Japan and so much of your systemic inflammation starts from your gut. These guys have developed a new protocol and we support with devices with laser therapy devices called the proximal priority therapy. And their theory was that infertility starts from your gut as well. So back pain is a great one. But if you're looking at female health, not just infertility, but you know, I think they started with endometriosis, which is a really heavily kind of inflammation mediated. My wife has it. So yeah. And we use the device since we see people go from an eight out of 10 to a two out of 10 within 30 minutes. It's so impactful for being able to do this. And there's no good pharmaceutical approach to this yet. And it's crazy because this affects a huge number of women. Drift or uterus out. You know, it's like she doesn't have a uterus because of it. It's like that's the default. It's like, yeah, it's crazy. Like it's so unfortunate. The aggressive stance for surgery and pharmaceuticals when there are preventative measures that you can take. But the Japanese lab, they did their first study and not treating uterine tissue at all. Treating the largest blood vessels in your neck and treating the gut. And their theory was we can reduce systemic inflammation and systemic inflammation is a cause for this infertility. Not the only causes multivariate. And what they saw was with 229 women, they saw over 27% of the women who hadn't been able to get pregnant for minimum of five years get pregnant as part of this trial. And then 22% carried through to a healthy delivery. The second trial was over 400 women and we modulated the treatment characteristics, the optical treatment characteristics, and it went up to over 40%. So there's absolutely an impact from your gut to so many different systems and it's inflammation mediated, I think is the key for this. Your gut is the center of your health or it's the center of your disease and your pathologies. That's wild. So when you think about it from, you know, even an autoimmune perspective, would you say the same thing that much of this is? Absolutely. Yes. With this right now again, so many of these autoimmune and immune, I think you nailed it. So much of it is so complex and so multivariate that we have to look at inputs and we have to look at kind of health outcomes versus looking at kind of the mediating factors, which is a little bit frustrating from a kind of a science and kind of research standpoint, but it still means that it can actually impact people's lives. That's what we're here to do. So when you see impacts and reductions in, you know, the long term from treating the gut, when you kind of, when you look at asthma, when you look at multiple sclerosis and you see these outcomes being impacted substantially, you know, really, really meaningful impacts for people, it's frustrating because we're still at the front end of this, but it's really, if you, I live in an optimistic space and like for me, that's just great. There's more we can do to optimize this over time, but we're already making a powerful impact for people from the autoimmune response standpoint. It's just great. Yeah. I mean, when you look at how many of these autoimmune conditions are overlapping, like I guess it's the way to put it, right? It's like, when you start looking and, you know, started my wife, never mind if I mentioned this stuff, but it's like, I started with, you know, it was Hashimoto and then it was a, it's like these other options start finding like, usually when someone has one autoimmune condition, they have multiple. And you know, a lot of times it can be environmental, like her sister's type one diabetic, which is autoimmune, right? So you get these things that are like, wait a minute, and how many autoimmune conditions are there that don't have labels or don't have an actual official, like things that we just could never describe. It's like things that we can't, we don't have an ICD-9 or ICD-10 code for. It's just like an ailment that is, most doctors might tell you, you're crazy for experiencing because there's a lot of, well, I don't know, there's a lot of ICD-10 code for this, so it doesn't exist, but it's a very real thing and people are suffering and dealing with it. And a lot of times it's these weird overlapping autoimmune conditions that are just, if I could almost call it a swarm term, just like general inflammatory condition. Yes. That once this system is a little bit more regulated and you're not having a cataclysm of a cytokine storm happening, then things go into check or they go into remission, right? And there's environmental load or whatever comes back again and they all flare up and they just, you know, it's, you can't stop the environment once again, right? But you can stop or at least mitigate some of the, what's called the medium, right? Yes. And if you can make that like 40 to 50% impact on that mediator for it, then people also, they feel more energetic, they're able to go address the other causes and they feel like there's hope and it kind of helps them dig themselves out. I'm glad you brought up Hashimoto's. We actually, my business partner had Hashimoto's and we actually, we worked a couple of labs on different thyroid treatments and there's been, so Hashimoto's, there's a great protocol for using laser therapy plus vitamin D3 and selenium that are really impactful and work so well for so many people that we started looking into part of, I mentioned kind of the impacts on female health and endometriosis and a number of different things. This got us into a rabbit hole from a research and development standpoint. Many women in paraminopause and menopause have major thyroid issues and these are directly inflammation impacted. So if you can treat the thyroid, if you can supplement along with those, with those kind of adjunct supplements to be able to kind of add in and get a better outcome for it, these are huge life changing impacts for people where they see their weight start dropping, they start seeing their mood improve. There's really powerful impacts for this. And again, this is something where I think it's worth the note that there is a lot of research going towards male pathologies, erectile dysfunction, different things in the space that the amount of money going to solve this is insane with things like endometriosis and kind of paraminopause and menopause related thyroid issues and different things like this. There's just so much less money going to these problems and they're very real, very meaningful problems and they seem to be ignored to some degree. And again, I don't know why I don't know what the cause for that is, but we see the same thing around issues where there are, it's a harder one because it's multivariate, it's harder to solve. So this is things like kind of different pain syndromes. So fibromyalgia as an example, multivariate, really hard to go solve, seems to have a very strong inflammation impact as well. And so all of that to say that they're coming back to the core center of if you have tools to reduce inflammation, which we now do, let's start applying them to different areas where we see these multivariate issues, where we see gut based issues, where we see outcomes where people haven't been able to kind of drive a, because of the complexity of the problem, haven't been able to drive a perfect solution for it yet. Let's start testing around those. And again, it's very exciting and brings a lot of optimism to me to be a part of that and being able to get people out of these issues. Again, fertility is an amazing one, but also with things like these thyroid issues, the impact that that has on people's quality of life on a day to day standpoint is just, I think it's underestimated or under recognized maybe. Can you, I mean, I've got more of the devices right here. Can you explain a little bit about how, like, what you guys are doing with this? Because I'll link out to it down below. This thing is crazy. This, you know, essentially laser device. You guys are just pioneering a lot of really cool stuff with it and, you know, explain a little bit about it and like where people can find you guys as well. Absolutely. I think it's probably worth starting from our mission. We, before we even looked at the technology, we sat down and went through developing a mission that holds us accountable. And it is to increase the quality of life for the largest number of people we can in the most measurable way we can. And photo by a modulation or light therapy had been particularly laser therapy because it allows you to dose more effectively internal tissue in the body had been at an amazing use an amazing level in laboratories and in clinics. But it was $30,000 to $50,000 to get a good device for this. And we felt that if someone could take this home and instead of being in the clinic once a week using amazing device, how do we get layers on people for less than $500 so they can do this at home every day and really see the ongoing additive impacts of this, particularly relative to inflammation. And we had to go customize custom design lasers to get everything down to the right price, but it's been really amazing to see the journey of all of the users. We've got over 60,000 devices out in the wild and there's not a day that goes by. And it's really important and motivating for us as a mission driven team that we see someone whose life this is changing. And it's just such a powerful kind of journey we've been on as a part of that. But yeah, they can find us at Kenyon, k-i-n-e-o-n dot i-o. But these are essentially clinical level $30,000 devices that we found a way to make wearable, travel friendly and easy to use at home and inhabit stacking. And I think that's the key is you really want to... These are long term stacking efforts to reduce the inflammation where you see better and better results the longer you can use it, the more consistency you can have with your use. And when you can make it wearable so that you can... You're driving into work, you're doing your meditation, you're doing your breath work. You don't have to hold anything anywhere, you don't have to focus on it. You can just put it on, let it do what it does and build a habit that you do every day and see the benefits of that. So we publish a lot of good blogs on what people can expect and the outcomes they can expect and then what's driving that on our website. So come in and check us out and learn a little bit more about it. And yeah, try it as 30 a day for free. We don't want to sell products, we want to meet our mission of changing people's lives and we will never force anybody to keep a device that they don't see the results from and we're on a lot of calls for making sure that people are using it in the right way with the right protocols to get the right results out of it. Good stuff, man. We'll link out to a special discount link down below as well. Yeah, forced. That's all I've got. Thanks, man.