Cortisol at night is a legitimate real problem, especially when it comes to visceral belly fat, when it comes to potential insulin resistance, and definitely when it comes to sleep, which aligns with all those anyway. Now, imagine that you're doing everything right, like you're eating all the right meals, you're timing your food, you're exercising, maybe your macronutrients are where you want them, only to have it sabotaged at night because of this cortisol shift and weird dural rhythm. But there's some interesting levers that you can pull some really lowhanging fruit that can course correct this because if cortisol is out of whack at the wrong time, it can take the fuel that would normally be used for recovery and potentially reallocate it in a not so good way, possibly even with like visceral fat because we have a lot of cortisol receptors, gluccocorticoid receptors within our abdomen. So that's why when you're stressed and cortisol is high, even good food does some not so good things. I'm going to give you something that you can use. 200 gram of this stuff can make a big difference in cortisol levels at night. You see, high cortisol in the evening ends up decreasing melatonin levels. It can destabilize glucose, and it can have all kinds of metabolic effects that carry over into the next day. So, it's a time of the day that we really want to be paying attention. So, I'm going to give you a tool that you can use, but then we're going to talk about four other tools. I'm going to talk about a spice that you can use, and then I'm going to talk about more of a tactic. Then I want to talk about two habits that you can do that have legit evidence to lowering cortisol. So the first thing I want to talk about is theanine. Theineine you just need two or 400 milligrams of this stuff and the evidence is quite strong. There was a study in neurology and therapy. They gave people like a mathematical test to kind of stress their brain out. And they gave them theine and they found that just 200 milligs of theine reduced salivary cortisol significantly after the stressful test. And this is the kind of thing we're looking for, like quick reductions in cortisol. The cool thing is there was another study in the same journal that looked at a form of theine called alpha wave theine, just a good quality theine. And they gave subjects 400 milligrams for 28 days. Long story short, after 28 days, they saw a huge reduction in perceived stress, 18% reduction in perceived stress. Not to mention, it improved their sleep and it improved their subjective moods. Now, this is interesting because stress and cortisol obviously go in handinand. This is really important. Stress increases cortisol. Cortisol can even increase stress and you end up in this vicious cycle. The way that theine does this is wild. Okay, imagine this. You've got theine that comes in your body and then it crosses the bloodb brain barrier and it does something interesting. It influences the calm state, the GABA state. So it reduces that fight orflight response and it does it quick. But it also increases dopamine. So you kind of feel good, you feel accomplished and it increases serotonin. Okay, now this is where it's interesting because serotonin not only makes you feel kumbaya, everything's copathetic in the world, but also is a precursor to melatonin. So that explains why lowers the cortisol, calms you down, and also helps you sleep. So I've got another tool for you. This is something that you can keep in your pantry. Talking like a literal spice, and we're seeing more evidence on it. Dr. Andrew Huberman has talked about it. It's called saffron. This is wild. It seems as though saffron interacts with serotonin receptor. So what this does is it's influencing how serotonin hits these receptors, makes it possibly hit a little harder so you feel calmer and cooler, but also once again influencing that GABAurgic state, that calm state of the brain. But one of the more unique things that it does is it seems to be a free radical scavenger. So it ends up going into the brain a part of the brain called the supra kiasmatic nucleus which is responsible for dal cues dal rhythms those you know sleep wake cycles and it reduces the oxidative stress in that portion of the brain so that it gets better at its dural rhythms. Guys this is so important because cortisol is part of our dial rhythm. It should spike in the morning come down and it should not be spiked in the evening. That's when everything's thrown off and that's when you get more absorptive issues. Most people have high cortisol in the evening. these days because the stress from the day accumulates. We need to do what we can to lower this. Saffron is fascinating for these dial cues. There's a study published in sleep medicine that took 120 people. They gave them either placebo, 14 milligrams or 28 millig of saffron. They found this improved their sleep quality. It improved their mood upon waking and it improved their natural melatonin production. Now, from what we know about the mechanisms, it's probably serotonin related. You want to feel kind of good at night, right? You feel calm and cozy and safe. As we're learning more about saffron and its mechanisms, we're starting to understand that you can do a lot with just these really simple things like anine and saffron, maybe even some glycine. One thing that I've used before that might be really helpful if you're dealing with cortisol at night and you're trying to sleep a little bit better and kind of calm yourself. There's a product called Evening Being from a company called Verso, who I I know really well. I know the owners. They combine patented alpha wave theenine at 200 millig with Afron patented saffron at the clinical 28 mgram dose and they also combine it with 3 g of glycine which I've talked about in other videos which has a huge effect on helping you stay asleep and even has an effect on reducing like nighttime urination like having to get up and go pee. Really interesting combination there. Plus 1 milligram of magnesium 3enate which gets into the brain, crosses the bloodb brain barrier and kind of induces that relaxation state. So talk about a company that's on the cutting edge with a lot of stuff. I find it really cool and it's probably helpful especially when you're looking at like modulating these cortisol levels that could be disrupting sleep or just helping you feel calmer in the evening. So they've been generous enough to put a 15% off discount link down below. So, if you use that code and you use that link that's in the description, that'll get you 15% off. They're really cool evening being product. So, Verso is great for that. Highly recommend you check them out. Now, we need to get into the next tool that you can use. This one's going to blow your mind. It's so simple and it flips everything on its head that we've ever known about blue light. Imagine that you're wearing your blue blocking glasses and you think that you're improving your cortisol levels or you're reducing that stress and that impact on your body before bed. Well, you're helping. You definitely are. You should block blue light. But there was a study that shows that it's more about the brightness than it is about the actual blue light itself. There was a study that was published in Biology of Stress took 23 versus 26 people and they gave them either dim light or bright light in all different spectrums, but specifically blue. And what they ultimately found was that it was really the bright light that affected things more than anything. As a matter of fact, if you had bright incandescent light, it could still impact you dramatically. This is a major hack. If you were to just turn your screen brightness down or your TV brightness down, this might have an even larger impact when it comes to your DAL cues. Does blue light affect cortisol? Of course, it does. It's a signal that you're awake. And when you're awake, you're pumping cortisol. Once again, how does cortisol influence the metabolism? Cortisol is supposed to be our fight orflight. When cortisol is combined with calories or combined with other stressors, maybe high carbohydrates coming at a time when you're stressed in the evening, that combination is a super physiological state in a way. We should not have cortisol and insulin present. Cortisol is this hormone that elevates to tell us to go get food. So if we're getting it along with food, it's a really weird mixed state for the body. What's interesting is understanding the mechanisms here. How is bright light influencing your brain? Once you learn this, you can't unlearn it. and it's going to teach you something that's going to carry on for a long time. Basically, the bright light activates something called melanopsin. This tells the super kosismatic nucleus to release what's called corticotropen releasing hormone and adreninocorticotropin releasing hormone. These are the hormones that then go over and tell the adrenal cortex to pump out cortisol. Direct mechanisms connecting here. So, if we can reduce that response, we can reduce the cortisol. Now, this next one is a simple habit that I promised you. It was published in Frontiers of Sleep. It was a review of multiple different papers. What they found is that simple 478 breathing reduces cortisol. What is 478 breathing? It's inhale for four, hold for seven, exhale for eight. Just doing that 8 to 10 times reduces cortisol. So you think that I'm crazy giving you these weird things to do, but what about the fact that cortisol is like this massive lowhanging fruit? Again, it is potentially reallocating nutrients to not so good things, right? So why wouldn't you just do 10 breaths like this? But there's another thing that you can do that can make it even better and easier. In your paranasal sinuses, you have the ability to produce nitric oxide. So when you exhale through the nose that changes everything that produces more nitric oxide, which increases veagal tone, which tells your body you're calm. Why does this work? Because if you're mouth breathing, you're probably stressed in nature, right? If you are exerting yourself to the point where you are mouth breathing, your body's going to say upregulate. This guy's stressed. But if you're nasal breathing, it signals I'm calm. So all the parasympathetic tone shifts, you get calmer, and what do you know? Cortisol goes down. Not to mention, you feel a little bit better. Now, the last extra tip that I think you should implement is literal grounding or earthing, which I sound like a crazy person, but the evidence is so strong. We've seen that just standing on Earth and actually literally connecting with the earth, can reduce salivary cortisol within minutes. And I've done videos talking about grounding. It's real. But you got to go on dirt. You got to go on concrete. Asphalt, it does not work for a number of reasons. You don't need to be super weird. You don't need grounding sheet. Just go put your feet on some dirt for a little bit or some concrete. I know it's hard in the city, but you can work around it however you need to. Now, fortunately, I've done some really good videos that break down strategies on this for cortisol. So, I put a link to a video right here about how you can reduce the high cortisol at night that might be waking you up in the middle of the night and also how to use grounding for that. seed.