You know that feeling when fasting doesn't feel like it's working anymore? When it feels like you're not actually dropping fat anymore or when it feels like you're not getting the cleanup and the inflammation reduction anymore. Well, there's actually a type of fasting that if we do too much, it breaks down the effects of autophagy. It stops autophagy from happening. And one of the worst things that actually happened in the world of fasting is when we started putting so much focus on simple calories in, calories out. And that sounds wild, but it's not entirely crazy. Okay, fasting is important for lots of reasons independent of just calorie restriction. Now, not going to lie, calorie restriction is important. But in this video, I'm going to share how there's a type of fasting that actually sabotages autophagy when it's done too much. And then I'll talk about a simple trick that you can deploy the day before you fast that can increase possibly even by 25 to 50% the amount of autophagy you have during your fast. And then I'll end this video with a few things you can add after your fast that can actually extend autophagy beyond just the period of your fast. So what is this terrible form of fasting? Recent evidence is starting to show that what activates autophagy in the first place is ghrein, the hunger hormone. There's a study that found that ghrein signals the body to start breaking down different fuels that we can use for blood sugar things like that right grein many things but one of the things it says is hey I'm hungry we need fuel and it activates but what happens when we fast is we have ghrein that increases and that's when we get hungry but then it starts to kind of decrease as we adapt and what a lot of people have taught us is that intermittent fasting is just a form of caloric restriction and it is if you treat it as such. What I mean by that is if you start fasting almost every day, then what happens is your body does just treat it as caloric restriction. And what have we learned from basic caloric restriction studies? We've learned that it just slows down your metabolic rate and eventually your body adapts to that. So you adapt to this fasting and you no longer get hungry. The moment that you're not getting hungry from your fasts, you've adapted and you're not getting the same powerful punch with autophagy that you used to get. So, we need to find a way to amplify that. Believe it or not, one of the most powerful things that you can do to amplify autophagy and cellular repair within your fast is to occasionally take breaks from fasting. It sounds wild, but it's legit. Now, another thing that you can do is you can just say instead of doing intermittent fasting every day or almost every day, take some time off and do periodic prolonged fasting. And by prolonged fasting, I mean anything really north of 20 hours, north of 24 hours. One of my personal favorites is a monk fast. It can have huge effects on the body because autophagy really starts to kick in after about 20 hours. Really kicks in after about 30 hours. You start even getting stem cell benefits at that point. So these longer fasts seem to be powerful especially because you can go periods of time where you have your regular diet and then an abrupt change where you actually do get hungry because remember ghrein is signaling autophagy to start in many ways with these longer fasts. A quick way to make it easier by the way is to just have creatine. It is providing some energy for your brain. So, if you're using your brain and you're tapping into those energy stores, you might find yourself getting fatigued until the ketones start to kick in with a longer fast. So, I put a link down below for 54% off the creatine that I use. Now, you can use their stick packs during a fast. But another thing you want to do is they have their gummies, which you wouldn't want to eat during a fast, but if you eat those the meal before you start your fast, you load up your creatine reserves, and they have a gummy that is actually sweetened with alulus, so you don't get a major blood sugar spike from it. And honestly, it's a nice little treat. So, you could have that before starting your fast or you could have their stick packs during your fast. And you'll notice your brain energy stays nicely elevated and activated throughout the fast. So, that link is down below. Again, that's a 54% off discount link. So, it's a huge discount. That's very exclusive for the people that watch my videos. So, exclusively for you. So, that link is down below. Now, I want to talk about an interesting way that you can amplify autophagy by doing something the day before. insulin stands in the way of autophagy. It just does. It doesn't mean that it's bad. insulin's not bad, but it does stand in the way of autophagy. And the first x number of hours, 10, 12 hours of a fast is really dedicated to just lowering insulin and draining the food in your in your system. Really, at least the first 5 or 6 hours, okay? But then you're draining carbohydrates for the next 10 hours. Bottom line is you got to wait for insulin levels to come down before you really have much of a chance of autophagy kicking in from a fast. You can still amplify autophagy with exercise, things like that. slightly different mechanism, but this ghrein induced autophagy, you need to have insulin levels lower. So, what you do is the day before you go into a fast, you go super low carb. It's setting up the framework for you. You go super low carb the day before and you set yourself up so by the time you start your fast, your insulin levels are already low and you're already halfway there, possibly even more. Do a little exercise at the beginning of your fast, you drain it even more. Okay? Remember, keeping your insulin levels low, keeping your calories low, keeping the exercise moderate, that's how you're going to induce autophagy. You got to be a little hungry, which means you have to fast and you might need to exercise a little bit to stimulate some appetite. It's not going to really stimulate until afterwards. But what about things that you can do after your fast? Like, how do you extend this autophagy? There's a couple quick things. There is a supplement called spermadine, but it's not the cheapest supplement. So you could take that for sure. But there's some interesting evidence on these aged cheeses and blue cheeses. So blue cheese, rogue for Stilton cheese. These are cheeses that you could eat after your fast. But what you'd want to do is you'd actually want to just go low protein, low carb after your fast, which sounds crazy because you normally want to replenish protein. But if your goal is cellular repair and autophagy, do one more meal with just low carb, low protein, high good quality fat. So those rogue for cheeses, some monounsaturated fat like olive oil, like avocado oil, like macadamia nut oil, super low carb, and then maybe four or five hours later, have a regular meal with higher protein. You're not actually breaking your fast, but you kind of are. You're just extending the fast, but giving yourself some satiety so you don't go totally insane. And that can make a big big difference. Now, I did a video talking about how a teaspoon of cinnamon in your coffee, whether it's during a fast or not, has a huge insulin mimetic effect and can help lower glucose without actually having to eat or actually secrete insulin. So, it's a way to lower blood sugar without spiking insulin. It's kind of interesting. It's it's a a very helpful thing during a fast. So, a little bit of cinnamon in your coffee, but I explain it all right here. So, you can check that one out. And as always, keep it locked here on my channel. I'll see you tomorrow.