 as we get older, we lose our thermogenic fat. It is called the whitening of fat. Basically, our fat loses mitochondrial function. Now, remember when you were born? Remember what that felt like? That's creepy. Now, think about a baby for a second. When a baby is born, they don't shiver, but they have a lot of brown fat, and that allows them to keep warm without shivering, non-shivering thermogenesis. So, brown fat for a baby is super important. Now, as we get older, we develop more and more mitochondrial DNA mutations. So basically, our cells, just to make it very simple, just become more and more mutated and more messed up and less efficient. In a beautiful little baby, they sip on their milk, and that milk, those calories go through these uncoupling proteins, and they go through that mitochondria, and they dissipate as heat, and baby is warm. And then we get older, and our things mutate, and we do not create energy as efficiently, so therefore, we lose thermogenic potential. And what happens is the brown fat that was so good at allowing us to burn fuel as heat now gets worse, and it's not so good at it. And we have less brown fat, and less brown fat, and less brown fat, and more white fat, and white fat, and white fat, meaning we have a lower resting energy expenditure. We have a lower metabolic rate. We are slower, and our metabolism slows down. But more important than just that, we lose the mitochondrial metabolic health benefits of it. Let's take a look at a study that was published in Cell Metabolism. This looked at mice because a lot of brown fat research is done in mice, because mice have a lot of brown fat. It's critical to their survival, really. So what they did is they took mice, and they mutated the PTM genes so that they would have basically more brown fat. And then what they did is they deleted growth hormone receptors. So these mice were not acted upon by growth hormone, which means they started living really long times. So growth hormone eventually can cause us to die. Eventually, it's parsed. It's not a cause of death, but it's part of the aging process. There's so much pro-growth in the wrong way, right? So if you stop the effects of growth hormone in a mouse, they're gonna live longer. However, when they remove the chunk of brown fat in their scapula, the longevity effects of deleting growth hormone went away. What that means is that brown fat was critical to the longevity aspect of these mice. Brown fat is super, super interesting because it's a metabolic sink, right? And don't worry, in this video, I'm gonna talk about how we increase this, or how we prevent the loss of it. Basically, when brown fat is active in your body, it helps you burn glucose, it helps you burn fat. It can actually, based on newer literature, even help collect toxic byproducts and metabolic waste. It is a very important thing. So as we get older and we lose the function of this brown fat, we lose these things. Now there's another aspect of this called a badokines. Sounds really funny. You ever heard of a cytokine or a cytokine, potato-potato? That is inflammation related. Have you heard of adipokine or adipokine? That is something that is secreted by fat to act upon various cells. There's things called a myokine, or a myokine, getting potato-potato. A myokine is secreted by the muscle. There's even things called exerkeins that are secreted during exercise. And these are signals that are secreted by tissues to act upon various cells. Now, badokines stands for brown adipose tissue, okines, right? So these are compounds that are secreted by brown adipose tissue. One of them, and I know this sounds super scientific, is called FGF 21. FGF 21 is famous. People talk about it a lot. FGF 21 increases resting energy expenditure, increases your metabolism. It increases your ability to incinerate and utilize carbs. It increases mitochondrial respiration, your ability to create energy. It inhibits mTOR, it increases autophagy. It's a very pro-longivity, pro-energy pro-life. It is secreted by brown fat. And as we get older, we secrete less and less of it because we have less and less brown fat as we get older. Now, in addition to that, we also lose receptors for it. So it just circulates in the bloodstream, creates a negative feedback loop, and we no longer produce it. And as we get older, we have less and less and less of this amazing badokine called FGF 21 that could quite honestly keep us youthful and energetic. So how do we prevent this from happening? The first one that I have to address is one that is concrete, very strong literature, and that is a specific type of cold exposure. Check this out. It was published in the journal Clinical Investigation. They had subjects immerse themselves in 60 degree temperatures, nothing crazy, 60 degree temperatures for six hours a day for 10 days. This alone in humans not only increased the activity of the currently existing brown adipose tissue on them, but it actually encouraged the turning of white fat back into brown fat. This is real folks, this can happen. And unfortunately, it does not happen when you sit in your cold tub. That's not when this happens. This happens by enduring moderately cold temperatures for a few hours a day, but you don't have to do it forever. This is one of the most profound, biggest levers that you can pull, but it's wildly uncomfortable. Now, one that's a little more comfortable, you can sit on significant amounts of green tea. There was a study that was published in Obesity in 2023, it was actually a good size study. It found that the catechins in green tea, as well as the polyphenols, increased not only activation, but also the browning of white fat. Now we've known that green tea is a huge metabolic, I don't know, godsend for a long time. Preserves muscle, increases fat oxidation, polyphenols. It's awesome, you name it. But the catechins seem to have a direct impact on brown fat. So two to five cups of green tea per day, regular size, eight ounce cups is outstanding. There was also a study, I can't remember where it was published, I was looking at Japanese people, huge, huge amount of literature. It's like, I think it was like 40,000 plus people. Those that consumed five or more cups of green tea per day had a significantly longer life expectancy. So there's a myriad of different benefits as to why green tea is important. It's hugely beneficial. After today's video, I put a link down below for Thrive Market. That is a 30% off discount link. So it gets you 30% off whatever you load up in your grocery cart, and then it gets delivered to your doorstep. So it's 30% off whether you want snacks, whether you want meat, whether you want whatever. So you load up your grocery cart, use that special link, and then it gets delivered to your doorstep. And there's also a free $60 gift that you get as well when you use that special link down below. Thrive Market has been a sponsor for over half a decade on this channel. So if you support them, then you directly support this channel and it helps us continue to do what we do. Plus, you're getting totally bang up savings on all your groceries. So use that link in the top line of description underneath this video. Now additionally, speaking of that, training or working out or exercising in general is one of the best ways to induce more brown fat. There's a study published in Frontiers and Physiology three times per week for 12 weeks at 70 to 80% max heart rate, simple biker gometer, increase brown adipose tissue, not only activation, but also the browning of white fat. They noticed that there was an increase in what's called uncoupling protein one by 100% in the white adipose tissue. So if you took regular white fat that normally doesn't do a whole lot in the body, I'd then just sit there and be a storage form of fat pretty much. All of a sudden this white fat was becoming metabolically active and developing mitochondria. So it's like when you exercise, yeah, you burn fat, but you also change the fat that you do have. And if you can make your fat metabolically active rather than just an appendage that's hanging out on you for a rainy day, that is huge. So that is where the exercise part plays a role. And it doesn't have to be immense, but it does have to be relatively intense. So 70, 80% of your maximum heart rate for 20 to 40 sustained minutes or do intervals, but do that a few times per week. Next up, training or being in a depleted state. Now I would say fasting, fasting has huge benefits when it comes down to brown fat. It definitely does, but fasting, all that really is, putting a time clock on when you don't eat. I say let yourself get depleted. So by depleted, it could just mean skipping dinner one day and then maybe training in the morning in a somewhat fasted state. That could be tremendously beneficial. The more depleted you are, the more you're going to phosphorylate AMPK and the more you're gonna activate some of these process. The more you activate and phosphorylate, what's called AMPK, the more likely you are to increase your brown adipose tissue and rekindle this whole thing. There's also extremely interesting evidence, at least in vitro, with capsaicin and other spicy foods. Capsaicin might actually increase the browning of white fat. We're seeing this happen in vitro. So it might be something a little bit more regular, but what's interesting is when you look, even epidemiologically, you look like different cultures that consume spicier foods. Funny enough, seem to have better metabolic health, which more literature needs to be polished and we need to do a lot more research to take that to the bank, but it's kind of funny. It's like you look at some of these countries that eat spicy foods, there are risks of death that are coming from other types of things, not the metabolic dysfunction that we're dealing with much more in the United States or parts of Europe or wherever, right? So all of these things seem to add up. One of the best things that you can do is if you're watching this video and you're in your 30s or you're in your 40s, put on as much muscle mass as you can now, because we don't look at sarcopenia as a disease, but we should. It is a real disease. As a matter of fact, it's responsible for a lot of money spent in the healthcare system. People lose muscle and then they fall down and then they break their hip and they go into the hospital and it ends up becoming this massive system and a mess. Because we're so busy looking at cancer and diabetes, heart disease, but we forget that sarcopenia plagues a lot of people. And if you can build the muscle beforehand, you could have the metabolic mitochondrial sync that gives you the metabolic function to maintain your brown fat tissues, to maintain your activity, to maintain a healthy lifestyle in general, all the things that prevent the metabolic slowdown and the belly fat accumulation from happening in the first place. I'll see you tomorrow.