Dr. Scott Sher, when we look at attention span, when we look at focus, when we look at the act of dopamine, there's something that I've noticed that's interesting and I'm curious what your explanation is for this mechanistically even. It's like if you have a bunch of caffeine and then you start having more caffeine and more caffeine, then you start finding that when you go to the gym to work out, you start scrolling through the music trying to find the right song more. And it's like your your dopamine baseline has just elevated to the point where you start needing dopamine hits from other things, not just the one thing. So my question for you is, is there crossover between things that spike your dopamine? Right. So like if caffeine is giving you this dopamineergic rush, >> sure, >> if you don't have the right amount of caffeine to get you there, are you going to seek it out via other things to satisfy that dopamine edge? I put a link down below for something that might help you out just in general with a healthier lifestyle. It's called Thrive Market. They've been a big supporter of this channel for a long time. So, that link gets you 30% off your full grocery order through them. I recommend you take advantage of it. It's a place that they vet the groceries that come in, so you can trust that the ingredients are cleaner. You can trust that there's not going to be weird preservatives or weird additives. The list of brands that they have not allowed on their shelves because of the quality of the ingredients is so big, you wouldn't believe it. They run a tight ship with that stuff. And that's why it just kind of takes the guesswork out, makes things a little bit easier and less stressful, speaking of cortisol. So, that link is down below. It's in the top line description. It's for 30% off your full grocery order, plus a free $60 gift when you use that link down below. >> Dopamine is one of his interesting neurotransmitters that we love because it gives us a lot of reward. We don't even notice it in modern society anymore because we're just continuing to be hit with things all day long. So, scrolling your phone, scrolling your news feeds, scrolling your, you know, whatever it might be. Like, we're always getting subject to things all the time. And when it comes down to it, there's really no, you know, direct evidence that like if you don't get enough dopamine from here, you're going to go here exactly and get more of it. Unless that you're used to a certain amount of hits on a regular basis. And so, what happens that your system gets used to this sort of attention deficit that allows you to get more and more hits of dopamine as you go. So, this is your scrolling for example, right? So there's a little bit here, a little bit there, a little bit there, a little bit there. But then your attention gets scattered and diffused. And if you don't have attention, you have nothing. You don't have your capacity to do really anything you want to do in life if you don't have attention to be able to do it. I was looking at statistics a couple years ago. I mean, we have the attention span of humans now like of goldfish. It's like less than 6 seconds before we want to task switch. No, everybody thinks that we can multitask. That's not true. We don't multitask. We task switch. we go from one task to the other to the other. And so if you're doing it something right here, you're concentrating and you go and check your email and and check your phone and do this and there's a cost to doing that because doing that, yes, you're getting your dopamine hits, but at the end, go back to what you were doing before, you've taken a big IQ hit, like 10 or 15 points off of your IQ trying to do two things at the same time, right? And that could be pretty low IQ if your average IQ is 100 and that's the average IQ. Everybody thinks they're higher than average, right? But average is average. You went down to 85. Like, you're not going to be as smart doing the work you were just doing. And so, the problem is that attention is such a commodity now, right? Everybody's vying for your attention. All of the platforms are vying for your attention. They're vying for the dopamine. It's what's going to make you, you know, shock and awe you in some way so that you get down deep in some sort of hole of despair or hole of hedonistic pleasure or whatever, right? And that's all they care about. But that's completely screwing you up because all that dopamine all the time is going to vastly degrade your capacity to have an attention on anything. And we have to get it back, Thomas. We have to or else life is just not all that satisfying because you have to keep going and getting more dopamine hits over and over again to have a satisfying life. This is the classic example of this is porn, right? People that watch tons of porn can't have a normal sex life, right? They can't have like, you know, regular sex. They have to watch something crazy to get that same dopamine hit. And porn is like the classic example of just dopamine to its max. >> So then what do we do? I mean, it's I almost get a dopamine rush talking about dopamine, right? It's like it's just like I find it ironic sometimes like there's people not going to name names. There's people on the internet that like have like literal businesses on getting people all like their dopamine baseline lower. >> Yeah. >> All based on short form content which is like constant. It's funny paradoxical weird thing, right? I mean, ironically, here we are talking about dopamine and >> but we're going to have a long video. People are gonna listen to the whole thing. That's why I don't focus on Instagram. I still love YouTube because I'm like I want to try to preserve. But it's funny because like when we first started this business like what 13 12 years ago or so it was like industry standard was 10 to 12 seconds before you need to cut to B-roll or to switch to change frames. >> Now it's four >> four seconds >> and now industry standard is four. So it's like I mean that's basically like now we're having to you know you have to cut every 4 to 8 seconds and it's like >> yeah network television for the longest time it was like yeah 8 to 12 seconds was like kind of the human brain. Now it's like yeah for four. I mean, you watch movies from like the 1970s and 80s and how slow they are from like a cut one scene to the next and like now it's like bam bam bam bam bam. Like it's like it's crazy. >> Or the frame rate of like children's TV shows. >> Yeah. Yeah. That's crazy, right? And so it's and it's just crazy what because what we're going to do as our anatomy, right? We want novelty. That's what we're evolved to have. That's how we've grown to be the dominant species on this planet is that we are always looking and searching for novelty for new ways of doing things for to so we invent things. We create things. That's dopamine is great for that. We need dopamine. It's not like we're saying that dopamine is bad. But the problem is that you're not inventing something if you're if you're doom scrolling against 13 platforms and only watching things for 5 seconds before changing them. You're inventing Jack. You're just watching something and you can't concentrate on an actual project, right? And so that's the problem is that and the intention deficit of of all of us right is just dramatic and you can see this in kids as you said you can see this in adults you can see this across the board people that you know ADHD is obviously a very very big deal and it's a real condition but you can have symptoms you can have like adult onset ADHD now because you're so dopamine depleted and you need these dopamine hits all the time and you can actually deplete your dopamine levels over time and your capacity you need more and more like anything else to get those same kinds of hits, right? And so it's this it's so funny you that there's like a whole platform of short form content on rebuilding your dopamine. But there there are many many ways to do it. Like one of the thing I think is important for people is like if you're always in this sort of sympathetic state, always like in this fight orflight kind of thing and when you're always kind of amped up, you're going to be looking for things that decrease your stress and you're going to go to things that give you dopamine hits because it give you that dopamine gives you a mild stress relief for a very short period of time. So it like relieves an urge of some sort, right? The urge of looking at something, the urge of new content and that relief is relaxing for like a second or two, maybe three if you're lucky. And then it's like you eat your bowl of ice cream, you have a gigantic pizza by yourself, which I'm sure you have every night, right? Just kidding. To calm down, right? I mean, but this is what people do, right? So, and that and this is all related to that stress response, right? If it's elevated higher, if you're always in this sympathetic dominance, you're going to be looking for things that are going to make you feel better for a short period of time. And dopamine hits are the way people do it. So, you know, bad food, bad, you know, things you do outside of your relationships and things like that. You're looking for dopamine hits anywhere you can find them. If you can't downregulate your stress response, which is the most important piece, of course, on a lot of different levels because if you can regulate your nervous system and balance your sympathetic and parasympathetic, the autonomic nervous system of those two branches, then a dynamic oscillation will get you down into parasympathetic and that's when you can actually concentrate without all the need for all that dopamine, which is really interesting. >> So is is chasing your thoughts dopamineergic in a way? So yeah, I mean absolutely like think of your thoughts themselves are self-perpetuating. Think of it like uh it's almost like what was described to me once in in something I was listening is like a pancake. It's like kind of stacking on top of each other. You like one one stacks on like oh I can't believe like I'm thinking about this and then this is going to happen and this is going to happen. This is going to happen. This all because of that initial thought that you've forgotten that's gone. But now you're like thought number 25. You're down this train. It's so rewarding in some way. like you're like, "Oh, this feels so good." And or feels so terrible, which also can be rewarding, right? And like I it's called the negative attachment side of things, right? I think we've talked about this is like you can be positively attached to something, but you also be negative attachely to something as well. Like pain, for example. Pain's a great example is that there's some reward in having pain. Even though that sounds crazy, like >> no, it's a signal. >> It's a signal, right? It's like it's rewarding in some way. It's just a negative reward. And but that still could be dopamineergic for some people. It's like when someone says, "Oh, well, I cut I cut my I cut my mom out of my life, but you're still sitting here talking about it. You formed resentment. That's a negative attachment. You're still getting a rush from that." Like, you realize that's just actually worse than having a positive attachment and a codependency. >> Yeah. Negative attachments are stickier actually than positive ones on some level because it's there's this like this like tinge of of like sweetness and poison. It's like, you know, there's there's a there's like a Buddhist uh Buddhist saying like they like the tip of the arrow is sweet, but the rest is poison or something like that or something like that. It's like it's there's something very sweet about the negative attachment to something like disliking something significantly, right? It's like I really don't want this to happen and then all of a sudden you manifest it, right? Because that's like like that there's like some sort of connection that you make to that. I don't know. There's there's a lot of different planes of how you want to describe it, but in essence, thoughts, as you describe them, are extremely rewarding um in various ways. That's why you go down these trains of of thoughts like, "Oh, I'm thinking about what I'm going to have for lunch, then I'm going to have this, so I'm going to have that, and I have this and I'm going to have that, and I'm going to I'm going to invite this person, invite this person." Like, that's all very rewarding in itself, too. And this is not necessarily bad, but again, it's attention that matters, right? And the ability to concentrate on something is really what makes the world go round. If we can't concentrate on things, we can't do and build and invent and create, we're screwed, right? And that's really what we're seeing here is like this significant dichotomy where the attention span is just gone and our energies are just everywhere as a result of it and we just can't focus on anything. >> So then how do we stop it? >> Yeah. What what's what's step one? Step one, as always, is to admit you have a problem. >> If you admit you have a problem, that's the first start. But often times, you don't know this, right? So, uh, what I typically recommend people start doing is thinking about what are the things in their life that are causing the most of that dopamineergic spikes on them on a regular basis. And, you know, for most people, it's going to be their phone, right? And so, there's various ways now you can you can get new you can get apps for your phone that block other apps and things like that. Um, the easiest way to do it is just to turn it off. You know, I find that even putting your plane on airplane mode isn't typically enough for people. They have to turn it fully off so that they can't actually go to it, change it off of airplane mode, and start using it. And also, you can regulate the amount of time you use certain apps on your phone. You can actually say, you know what, I'm only using Instagram for 1 hour a day, and then after that, it's done no matter what else. Right? So you can you have to put in you actually have to put in roadblocks to be able to use this kind of stuff because it's so rewarding, right? And then you have to find different ways uh to increase your concentration. And there's lots of different ways to do this. But you can start, you know, with a practice of concentration practice. A great practice is actually looking at the the hand of a clock just going round. If you can watch that or you can just close your eyes and count to 100. Can you do that? And every time you aren't able to count to every time you get distracted, you go back. Right? This is also like following your breath. Right? Following your breath and just every time you get distracted from your breath, you go back. Right? These are concentration practices. And concentration is the key to being uh to optimizing and learning meditation. Before you really can meditate, you have to learn concentration practice. And so, as a sidebar, but in general, you find different ways to return back to your concentration. So you can use various techniques like that. Um it doesn't have to be rocket science. You don't have to have fancy apps and things like that to do. Sometimes it's just getting outside, walking, getting exercise, getting out in nature and doing that because that's also going to release various various neuro hormones and chemicals that are going to help regulate your brain function too. Um, or you can, you know, think about using things like psychedelics sometimes can be helpful as a way to reprogram some of your your thought loops as to what you think you're have to do, right? I think I need to be busy all the time. Like, I think I need to check Instagram 15 times a day or 100 times a day or a thousand whatever because if I don't, X is going to happen, right? If I don't do this, something's going to happen in my business. Something's going to happen in my family. I need to do this. I need to do that. And if you can reprogram some of that stuff, that could be helpful because again, we make a lot of thoughts. You shouldn't believe most of them. >> And having the capacity to create some distance from them, that is like it's a superpower, right? Because then you can have this sort of your monkey mind talking away. We, you know, we call it like neural network deolarizations. It's just zapping of your brain. That's all it's doing, right? And it's not you. There's no real, >> this is the other big news, right? There's no real you, right? You're just you're just you're a process. You're like what we call your yourself the the person that you think is you. It's something you're just making at every moment of the day. It's like this selfing is what we are. We're selfing ourselves into existence. And so we can change all that by giving it some context and giving it some reprogramming and then examining your mind, right? And that and that's the key. So that's how I think about it. And and these are not easy concepts for people because and people often think that they have a self like they are somebody, right? They're a person. They're they have a meat suit they're wearing, but that brain of yours is changing every second of every day. And like it's not like stepping in the same river twice. You don't do that, right? It's like our brain's always changing and moving too. So I think the key here is attention. And the key is creating space from those thoughts that are ongoing in your brain all the time. And then we by doing those two things, these are superpowers, man. Like the superpowers in our generation, our society now is to be able to concentrate on something 100%. >> Yeah. It's like the uh Alan Watts always said like the the the wave wants to be the ocean so bad. Wants to be water, but it's already water. It's already like it's like it's it's just it's just water. >> Yeah. There's so many analogies like there's the waves and there's the ocean. There's the sky and the clouds. I like that one too. And and because you're not the clouds, you're the sky, right? And yet the clouds are coming and they're going and sometimes they're rainclouds and sometimes they're heavy, sleet, overcast, but above them is always the sky. Like you're always there and you're always you always have maximal unlimited capacity, right? And that's pretty I think freeing for people too. It's like you can change your story, right? I was just watching just watching Matilda with my kids, right? Get a like there's a song about changing your story. Like it's cute but it's true. Like you don't have to be stuck. But that's also what sometimes psychedelics could be very good for, right? Is that what psychedelics can do, like things like ketamine for example, is they can downregulate what's called your default mode network, your DMN. And when you downregulate your DMN, you don't have those stories that you're stuck on anymore. You can create new patterns, new connections. Like, oh yes, my name is Scott. I live here, but but what if I didn't have to live there? Like, for example, you know, whatever the example might be, like I can have a different conversation about it. like like I was, you know, something happened to me when I was younger and and as a result I do all these things, right? That that could that could be true, but there could be a story in there that you might be able to break, right? And change. So, if you can downregulate the default mode network and depress its function for a little while, other patterns can emerge that are healthier, that are more optimal, and that allow you to protect your attention more in this case, right? Or it can be in other in other ways as well. There's a lot of different positives about downregulating your default network, but I think in the end what we're talking about here is getting out of your stories. Getting out of the things that you think you're supposed to do that think who you are that you have to do every single day or that you that somehow you're not a good person if you do like you're not you can't be loved or you you know you don't you don't deserve what you have and um everybody's going to hate you or you know people are going to throw things and rock you or whatever. you know, all that can sort of be depressed for a little while and say, "Well, maybe all that's not true, right?" Because they're all just thoughts and you realize when those are when those are depressed away from you, then you realize, well, wait, a world actually exists where I'm not thinking that. So, that it actually does exist. It does exist because when you stop thinking about it, then that world isn't going on. The world Yeah. It's uh >> you make your own reality, man. This we talk about all the time, you know, and I'm I'm with you. >> It's almost always a fear-based thing, too, right? Like it's just like it's usually if you think about every time you're getting a dopamine hit, >> why are you checking your phone? Well, I just got to check my email business. Well, why are you afraid of that? You know the seven layers of why, right? Like why are you why do you have to check the business right now? Why do you have to check your email right now? Because well, what if someone emailed you? Well, what do you think is going to happen? Well, I don't they might Okay, so you have a fear of not being able to prove yourself and not look a certain way and not uh have enough money and Okay, so you get down to all these layers. It's always a fear-based thing, right? always like dopamine hits are always coming as a response to to fear and often times even a distraction from fear, right? >> Yeah. It's the common emotions or feelings that that humans have. Fear is number one. Guilt is a big one too, depending on your culture. And of course, just shame, you know, those are the big ones, right? So, if you have a lot of fear and you live in that state, you're going to be trying and to compensate for that all the time. And guilt is the same thing, right? These are big issues. And this is it's evolutionary programming, man. Like we wanted to be part of a group. We wanted to feel like we were loved, right? We wanted to feel but if there was any potential that we'd be get kicked out or like we'd leave the tribe, we would die, right? So we had to have a fear-based way of living to survive for many, many years, right? But now don't really have to have that anymore, right? We have more options. Like we're not, you know, getting prayed upon by saber-tooth tigers and things like that. We're most of us aren't, I don't think. But as a result of this, we have a challenge because our our physiology, our anatomy and physiology is still set up that way, right? So, we have to reprogram this stuff. And we're lucky to have the time and the capacity to be able to do that, right? So, we don't have to live in a fear-based state. We can actually live in a in a in a place of abundance and and flow and say, you know, things are naturally going to happen and that's going to be okay, right? And you realize when you do that, everything becomes easier, right? And a lot of this is the creation of an ecosystem for you as a person where you feel loved and cared for not only by outside people but by internally you feel like this contentness this happiness right. It's like an internal state where no matter what's happening everything's going to be okay. You know, and that's something that takes a time and and that's not easy for people to have. But a lot of that has to do with what we've been talking about with your ability to concentrate, your ability to actually be maintaining your focus for a period of time. And taking yourself out of the doperic cycle is a huge way to do this. So that's what we all need to do. And I'm as guilty as anybody else. You know, it's difficult to do this. You have kids, you have jobs, you have spouses, you have blah blah blah. All these DMN things that I was talking about, right? It's like like how do you do this? Well, if you set your intentions for the day and say at least at certain points in the day, I'll let myself I give myself free reign for 30 minutes and doom scroll. Fine. But after that, I'm going to take 30 minutes or an hour and I go for a walk without my phone. You know, take do a meditation without my phone, right? Or if you're using your phone, maybe it's on an airplane mode and you're just doing a meditation or something like that, right? You're not getting pings and things. But in general, build things into your schedule that allow you more time to find attention. And then sometimes you can use compounds and things like that to help you to remember what it felt like to have your single capacity to do it. Like, oh, that's what it felt like. But you have to be careful like things like, you know, we've talked about nicotine before. We've talked about methane blue before, you and I. And you can use these compounds and they can be very, very helpful um in in the short term to give you a feeling of okay, this is focus again. But you have to think about long term like what is your what are you trying to get back to is like say you don't really need those all the time. You can use them if you want to but you don't need them as much because you have more of your capacity more of your attention. >> Yeah. Um I mean Agaran has been a huge one for me for just uh >> Oh this is good. This is I know and this is a good one you can talk about. Yeah. >> Yeah. I mean for for for presence real true presence right because um you know I've experienced with uh a number of psychedelics and I get I get Yeah. you know you get this thing but you know the integration like we talked about is the most important thing how you get that but the thing and a lot of those are sending you into almost an introspective journey where you're spending a lot of time and you got to be deliberate about dealing with things and there's things like a which is you know legal anyway right this is something that has made me feel very present >> and I feel like the work that I do in that state it sticks and it's probably because it's not such an altered state where you're you're in La La Land it's it's like this is this is practical and I can carve some new neural pathways here. >> Yeah. Yeah. And what's what's super interesting about that, Thomas, and I I appreciate you mentioning it is that people that want to have more stimulation, they want to have more energy, they want to have more focus. Often times, it's not about giving them stimulants. It's about relaxing their nervous system like we talked about. And something like agurine is great for that because it calms down the nervous system. So you actually can perform better because you're not overstimulated and you don't require and don't really feel like you need that you have the urge to go for those dopamine hits anymore because you don't have that sympathetic activation that was sort of pushing you to find more reward someplace. So then when you downregulate your nervous system all of a sudden it's like I can actually talk. I actually can convey a message and I actually I'm not it's like a coherence kind of thing I talk about like where they're like when you drop in with something that increases your parasympathetic tone. You drop into some sort of coherent state more, you know, where you actually able to align with other people better and actually get your message out better as well. And so if you're always like sort of just hyperdriving and sympathetic activation, people don't resonate with that as much. You know, and you know this as well, like when you're giving a talk and you're relaxed, people really kind of gravitate towards, right? But if you're like if you see people giving talks and they're just like like people just don't gravitate towards that, right? You need to kind of like have this sort of >> parasympathetic downregulation on with you to be able to bring people in, right? And something like aguran is great. Anything that's going to regulate that parasympathetic nervous system a little bit but not make you feel tired at the same time. It's like you've always we've all seen the ugly dude that somehow has girls flocking all over, right? The point is like we've asked ourselves like how well it's just his vibe, man. It's like look like >> the energy you put out that that that calm cool that >> really does attract people and not even necessarily in that sense, but I'm just saying like people will gravitate to you if your veagal tone is a little bit more chill, you know? And uh I think you can you can gify yourself out of, you know, back into that, right? Because I think we're we're naturally born pretty chill and then we develop this identity that we have to defend and then you know you're in the constant state of defense for that identity for the rest of your life. Yeah. It's such an interesting we are we're born in a very interesting place right because we we're born and we're cons suddenly like burst out. We're taking a breath for the first time. It is not calm at all. But ideally we are using most of our you know first couple months sleeping right and doing all the energy and working. But but then what happens is like you see in kids like the socioeconomic socioultural program excuse me it really starts taking a big shift around you know our our son's ages around seven or eight years old when they start becoming more of that you know that their person like I my name is this this is where I live and things like that most of the parenting that we do probably with our kids is between zero and eight years old as far as I'm concerned that's really when we're helping them understand how to regulate their nervous system how to regulate this capacity going between sympathetic and parasympathetic how to understand how to concentrate. I was talking to a parent recently like my daughter went over there. She's like, "Your daughter just concentrated the whole time." I'm like, "That's great, right?" Like, and her daughter was having a hard time. Whatever. Like, not that she was she's her daughter's a very smart kid, too. But it's just a matter of like that's how we if we can regulate our kids nervous system when they're young, it's much easier when we're older to be able to regulate our own nervous system. But it doesn't mean that if we didn't regulate when we were young, we can't do it when we're older either. That we can we can rebuild that. We can rebuild this, you know, dynamic capacity of bouncing back between our sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system by understanding that dopamine can be fantastic and used for really good things in life, in the world. And in my capacity, helping people, moving moving the needle on health and creating companies that do this as long as you use it intentionally, right? And know that you're really not doing more by doing more. You're actually doing less well by doing more. So, and you're, you know, you're messing your IQ up. when nobody wants to do that. >> I something that I've noticed like with Agaran and and Tromol which is from your company Trust >> is that I think it's given me the awareness or the maybe you can call it the stillness to a degree. The stillness to recognize where my dopamine problems are, >> right? Like I recognize patterns. Okay, maybe I don't have a lot of caffeine, but I notice patterns in myself that are still clearly dopamineergic and I'm still pleasure pleasure seeeking behavior in one way or another, right? big thing for me is like I'll be working out and I always like I mentioned earlier like find the right song to get the right I'm like I don't want to have to do that. So like but being able to step into that into that stillness and see that like then I can have this awareness to say no I'm going to work out without music for a while and just reestablish recalibrate this right um and I don't think that I would have actually had the stillness to see that if I didn't have sort of a um let's call it a supplemental intervention. >> Yeah. Yeah. Totally. Yeah, because like having those those those pattern interrupts, right? That can be huge. And it'd be very difficult sometimes to do that. We've talked about this before on your own, like, oh, just do some breath work for five minutes and see how you feel. Like it's very difficult to tell somebody to calm down, right? We know this doesn't work. Um, but what you can do is like, well, let's try this and see how you feel, right? And I know that like most people understand that they shouldn't be on their phone as much as they are in general. Most people understand that their attention isn't as good as it used to be in general. So, like we'll try a couple things here and see how you feel. Let's drop your nervous system down. Let's see how you feel. Try this. Try that. And like you say, just take two hours away from your phone. You're going to have some anxiety initially, but then it's going to go away. You're going to feel much better, right? And then you'll notice that you actually there's a reward in that as well. So you actually can start shifting your dopamineergic rewards to things that are more optimal for you. Like now instead of like the hit being like the doom scrolling hedonistic pleasures of whatever, it's like, oh wait, I went out in nature and I smelled the flowers. I smelled like the freshly blooming trees and like that's a reward in itself. But the key with this is you have to g like you said you have to gamify a little bit. You have to this sounds funny but you have to congratulate yourself on doing things that you want to do for yourself because that's also way to give you dopamine that's not a detrimental type of dopamine. So for example like when you are lost in thought right and all of a sudden you come to and you go oh wait I'm not any of those thoughts you have to reward yourself for that it's kind of a crazy system you have like yes I did this yes I was in I was lost in thought for 20 minutes but I came back and I'm here I woke up right it's like when you're outside in nature like and you're and you're smelling and you're seeing you're like this is amazing like I can't believe I've been spending all my time on the phone when I could have been outside and taking a walk and smelling the air and sneezing from the pollen, whatever it might be, right? But like you're getting that you have to give yourself like additional rewards in doing more positive things, right? And I think that's also very important too as you're trying to retrain your behaviors. >> Yeah. No, perfect, man. Well, I want to I'll link out to the product um that has Agaran in it. One's called Troll Calm. It's a really cool You've got a whole suite of products that are really cool that, but that one particular because that one is one that I've used. So, kind of a personal testimony for that one. So, I'll link out to that one down below. It's called Trocom. What's in what's in that one specifically? >> So, we have Trocom and we have something called Troll Pluscom. The Trocom has um has cava, CBD, CBG, and it has something called nicoten GABA in it. Our Troll Pluscom is the one that's for practitioners. It's a practitioner only one, but if you have a practitioner or we have a map to help you get a practitioner that one has agarin, that one has cav, which is from cava, and it also has a little bit of nascin as well. Nascin from vitamin B3. It's a nice combination of things, too. And then your your tro your sleep product has agarine in it. Correct. >> Yes. Troy has agarin that's for everybody and that's fantastic for sleep as well. So and that you could probably take a really lowd dose tro not for sleep too I would imagine if you wanted like a little bit of a calming effect. >> Yes. Well actually what I've done just obviously everybody's got to check it out make sure it's okay is actually do a little bit of tro tro along with something like a little bit of nicotine a little bit of caffeine to give you a little bit of stimulation while you're taking it. So I like that. Yeah. So that's a combination that I use in some people. Yeah, the agonine is great. It's in our TROZ. Uh Trocom is a great formula for downregulating the nervous system. The one that has the agon in it that's during the day is a troposcom and that one is for practitioners only. So if you're a practitioner listening, you can get an account with Troscriptions, our company. You can get it to your people. We also have a nice practitioner list. So if you'd like to try that one, we have practitioners we can hook people up. >> Oh, sweet. Yeah, it's cool. Yeah, definitely a lot of practitioners that listen to this. So >> yeah, get an account, man. We have a whole practitioner portal with new with all these different products in there that are higher potency, a great ecosystem that I've developed over the years to try to really train people on all of the things that we do there. But in the end, as you know, Thomas, my goal, as yours is to educate and give people options and then just elucidate a new way of thinking, right? A new pattern interrupts that they can use to then really build on those with lifestyle and, you know, changing things over the long term. >> Sure, man. Well, uh, Scott, where can everyone find you, man? Yeah, check uh check us out. My company is called Trescriptions. We are at transcriptions.com. That's our website. We also have on Instagram and we also have a YouTube channel at transcriptions. You can follow us there. That's kind of been a fun one to build out, although it's smaller than yours, Thomas. We're getting there. Um and uh and we also can you guys can check me out at uh drscure.com, my website, dr r s o tt r.com. And that's where I have my consulting. I have my own practice. I'm still a clinician. and I still work, you know, doing clinical work and that's where you can find things about prescriptions and about a couple of my other companies. One called Onebased Health as well. Right on, man. Thanks, bro. Good to see you. Thanks.