of Squid Game 2. And then I will, I'll see you after cardio. All right, so, I was feeling reasonablyamped up and I still am. And I'm on my mind, I'm like, all right, let's go crazy. Let's get the 150s. 150s are not happy. As soon as they picked up the 65s, they felt like the hundreds. So, I did a warm upset of the 65s, then the hundreds, which is about like one plate jump, and then a feeler wrapper two of 130, 130s. So, let's just go nuts with that. Ariel will be my song of choice. Okay. Whoa. Why is he more? Oh My Oh, oh, oh, one more. It at one thirty the sweets buy. Any more, it probably be the danger zone I freaking hurt myself. This would be the last one and then I'll move on to something else. Oh, oh. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I am okay. Holy crap. Oh. Okay. Let's go to your sub-pack deck. Oh, my gosh. Let's get a straight classic set of Pectex. The first few reps on a throne. Hold in the top, go slow. But as I get more and more fatigued, these last few will just be fucking brutal. Okay. Oh. No, man. Dude. Oh, okay. Dude. Dude. Dude. Dude. Oh, my gosh. Okay. One more. That's a really good Pectex. I'm getting very minimal front belt activation. Which is the problem. I'm gonna work on it. Let's make these sub-temporary reps for the first portion. Yeah. Okay. Oh, my gosh. All right. Let's do something cable-related. Okay. Really good, though. This is a pretty damn good five-open-age sets. Let's do some kind of pump style work bent over cable-flames. Now these are going to be very different than those Pectex-wise work. If I'm not going to sit here and have like a really controlled one second hole at the bottom, probably do a pause rep. But what I do want to make sure is that at the bottom of every rep, especially when I'm strong, I feel like an extra momentary place. And not just like straightening my leg out all the way, I'm like an extension. I mean, getting to that max range of motion and then getting like a little extra of, you have a promise, it can change the way your sets feel. But once you get this one out of the side, I'd have to go back to finishing off chest. No. No. No. No. Oh my god. Let's do that in reverse for the next 10 seconds. That's a bent fly set. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Okay. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No, no. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. sets a hard dumbbell press, two sets of pectx, and then two or three sets of cable work. I can't remember. But either way, all of that cumulatively added up, it's a pretty damn freaking S chess bump. Let me get it. Let me get it. Let me make sure I'm still unfocused here. There we go. Well, you just hold that shout, give me a little light head. Oh my goodness. Oh, crap. All right. Well, now we've got that a highly successful chess day. If anything, and it's insanely successful, chess day. And now, my year is over. There's no more lift. The time has run out. The amount of same in 2024, at least in a working out contest, it's complete. And this is the freaking result. And frankly, I am not disappointed. I actually just ordered like a one-page year-long calendar, then I'm going to put up my wall, because I want to be able to write like a basically just a big green checkmark across every day that a good lift gets done. And then by the end of the year, I'm going to have a big ask fucking green page of checks. I wish I would have done that this year. But what are you going to do? It's starting past. And that's a pretty reasonable approach to everything time-wise, because it's like, it's not even due by the time it's already passed. But, yeah, it's so much time ahead of you. You may as well get a jump start on it now, right? Are you going to feel better if you finish your essay a week before it's due? Or if you got a clam, the night before it's due, many are going to be. And if we both are going to answer that. But, let's get that out of here. It's 2024. That's a wrap. All right. And that's it. There's no one on doing it. The cards have been played. What's another kind of phrase for that sort of thing? Well, either, oh, cards are down. I think that's a better way to put it. BAM, man, that's it. So look back, do a little self analytics. How many times did you plan on working out? Like, let's say you have a five-day week routine, a four-day week routine, whatever. How many days did you stick with that versus how many didn't? Or how many did you not? And, you know, though potentially unfortunate, and for some very fortunate, there's a pretty direct correlation between that percentage and your gains, or your progress, right? Be it fat loss, muscle gain, strength gain, just building up more endurance. You want to be a little bit more athletic. Generally fit from just like coming to the gym, doing regular full body workouts, like whatever that goal may be. The amount of hours that you have clocked will be pretty well represented in the results that you get at the end, you know? And don't forget, you're kind of always on the fucking clock or the freaking clock's out of that thing. Where whether or not you actually kill it or you just hang out and play four night after or whatever you gotta do during the day, even though it might not feel that important because like that's your free time and who cares, you know, nobody's telling you that's to do it. Later on down the line, if you ever feel like you're not exactly where you wanna be, and of course, if I'm talking about it, it's gonna be gains-wise, and then, guess what? And there's probably a reason for that. And it's because if you look back at your time sheet, you know? There's a few discrepancies. The amount of time actually lifting going nuts, a little bit of a deficit and the amount of time on Discord, maybe a little bit of a surplus, you know? And I'm not saying you can't mix it, too, of course. I was just playing some Fortnite last night with Mark, but there is such a thing as moderation, you know, I'm saying. So, all that's to say is, you'll get out what you put it. And I say this a lot about the work now and why I really like it is because that's pretty much just a true statement, you know? I don't wanna just keep repeating myself, but I'll say it just for, you know, explanation sick. Let's say you took a guy and you made him go to the gym every day for a whole year. And you made him work out reasonably hard, like he just did some basic lifts. He'd do a push day or a leg day or a back day, tell me, he might even skip a leg day ever, so off, right, raw human. But whatever, do you think he's gonna be more jacked? At the end of that year, we're less jacked. Probably more jacked. It's as simple as that, you know? If you clock hours in the gym, then it will start to result in gains. And the cool part is, for the uncool part of that is, I think that the gym gets like a weird wrap. I really don't like to see it, where people really dive into the negative side of things where it's like using the gym as an outlet for just basically only negative emotions. Like, I really do not love to see it at TikTok and it's where it's guys basically saying, like, I hate myself unless I train a failure. Like, I don't piece of shit unless I push myself to my extreme limit. Like, I really don't like that mentality. It kind of, it just turns me off. It doesn't get me going. Like, I wanna get excited about training because I like the process of pushing myself and the results that come afterward are pretty dang cool too. So in the beginning, everybody's got a chip on their shoulder about working out, depending on what your story may have been. Like, there's a couple of classic tropes. A girlfriend broke up with you for the football guy. That's becoming a little less prevalent now, I think. I don't think that's probably more of like a 90s story. Like any of my slightly older demographic can might be able to relate to that a little more. Or it's like, maybe you're a little tubier when you're younger, you wanna start getting jacks and really kinda undo that from whatever. Like, it's all sick, but eventually, I would hope that you start to realize like, oh, it's working out, it's just cool. Push on myself hard at this, this is just cool. And I get to be in shape. Like, I get to work on getting myself into reasonably solid shape. Nice. I'm taking this to a totally unnecessary degree. Like, I'm pushing it this far just because this is like my thing and it's like a vector of progress that I really wanna pursue in my free time. I don't know my free time, just in my time. So it's like if somebody is a fucking, or a freaking guitarist, they'll play a guitar, they'll look in good at guitar, they'll like have fun with it. That's what they do, right? Usually lifting and that thing that you'd spend your days doing aren't the same for me that definitely are. So that's why I'm taking it so far. But even just coming to the gym reasonably frequently and getting into better shape, like I can't emphasize the value of that enough. And I'm looking at it from a third person perspective. Like, I'm not the guy to come to if you want some motivation on like a real serious fat loss of journey. That's just not the life I've lived. But I do get to see the upside of being at a reasonable like BMI, or body fat percentage. Like I'm not trying to dog anybody, but if I had to carry around an extra 50 pound backpack at all times, that would kind of suck, that's just kind of hindered. So if your thing is like this year, I wanna make it happen, I wanna get some cardio hours, clock, I wanna start tracking my calories. I wanna get under 200 pounds, or I wanna break two ten, or whatever your goal might be. That is a solid ass thing to achieve. Now all you gotta do is just not get discouraged by the fact that it's gonna take them a while. But all that's to say is, I've never seen anyone, and I really couldn't imagine anybody. Where after they get themselves into solid shape, that they decide to completely flip it around, it's a ass, ruin them, done with this. And even if sometimes life gets in the way, it's like the classic real job, kids, I would certainly imagine that it's gonna get pretty tricky to balance things out with. Like it's not a, I'm still kind of a young buck there, so I'm pretty spoiled. But everybody's got that niche. Like once you get indoctrinated into the gym, then that fire's always gonna be in the back of your mind at all times where it's like, oh yeah, that better lock it back in. And if you've been jacked before, like you've been a reasonable shape back in your oncology, or whatever, like mid 20s or something, and then you've got it kind of got an out of it, and every of the gym is often, I guess what? You still have residual gains from when you worked out in your younger, kind of basically lying dormant, because after you gained a certain amount of muscle, you did not completely just shrink that all away and act your feedback to a regular dude, right? Let's say you were, you know, my, what's the reason we lean football build? Offensive Lyman? Definitely not a defensive Lyman, whatever. You'd have called us sports, you were yoked, and then you kind of backed off, and you never really knew we were gonna add as much. Guess what? You've still got those myonuclei little extra muscle fibers, because not only when you work out and do the muscle fibers that you have get bigger and just physically larger and more inflated, like, sarcoplasm and muscle glycogen, and all sorts of fancy dance stuff. But you actually start to build more of these little fibers, right? So somebody that's worked out for a long time and got reasonably developed and muscularly, even if they shrink down over time, they still built up all those new fibers. So getting back into it, you've already got a head start. So to re-gain your gains is much easier than to have gained them in the first place. But same thing, you know, with any new introduction of like a training routine, it does take a little while to get into. And all I can really say there is, try to fight for that adaptation. I get so much flack for talking about the, well, actually, I don't get that much flack, but I'll get a lot of sort of, there's no way you could possibly train every day of every week and make results. There's no way you could possibly do that. And I think you're definitely not wrong in the sense that rest days are probably reasonably beneficial. Like, I'm just an unnotcase about it. I just love to lift so I wanna do it every day. And even as a beginner, I've kind of been on like a daily training split forever. But keep in mind that when I started working out, I had just quit doing like men's gymnastics swing around the bars and stuff. So I was kind of already primed for pretty high intensity daily activities. Because that was like a six day week thing for like three hours straight. So it wasn't too hard for me to add like daily workouts. But no matter what kind of routine you get yourself into, your body is not as weak as these guys say that it is. Like when anybody talks about overtraining or whatever, it's like, oh, you shouldn't push yourself that hard. I mean, that really just, oh, you're pushing me away man. Because there is no way that your body would have like a certain hard limit of effort. Where it's like, oh, you actually did that two hard. Now you're not gonna make any gains. It's like, no, you can under recover that 100% is for sure. You're not even enough food. You're not getting enough water. You're not getting enough sleep. You can definitely under recover and build fatigue. But if you're doing like an hour workout on the daily hour and a half workout and you eat enough protein and go to sleep, I think you're gonna be able to come back the next day. But again, it is an adaptation. I remember I had Mark coming to the gym when I was like 16 or so, he was 14 or whatever. And I had him do my 25 set chest day where it was like five moves, five sets of bench, five sets of incline bench, five sets of dumbbell bench, five sets of, like just all sort. Basically 25 total working sets for chest. Way too much, I did not understand the value of like, denser work. I should have, I wish I would have watched some more bike events or one of the younger. But like that first time that I brought him in there, I freaking killed him man. Because he hadn't worked that before and I had him do way too much volume. But after a little while, he got into it and then he was doing the same workout today I was doing. So there is most certainly room to try to sort of pinpoint a specific scientifically supported whatever optimal routine. But the efforts got to come first. So that's, then I'm getting it all sorts of a crazy ram on here. I've just gone down different grabables, I'm getting a little off track. But all I have to say is coming in next year as long as you've got some time to make it happen. If you spend it working out, I can promise that you won't regret it. Now you might feel a little tired in the moment, especially on a leg day when you didn't get enough sleep and my feel a little tired. I mean, I've been there before. I've had some lifts where I was like, God sucks. And usually that's only when I let my recovery falter or I was just being stupid like stand ups and I actually I can't remember the last time I had a lift that felt like that. But I'd stiffly happen. So even though sometimes in my feel like you do that aggrind and the long run, you're only gonna look back out of the thing, why didn't I start doing this sooner? Why didn't I start doing this freaking sooner? So it's like the classic phrase, the best time to have planted a tree was 200, freaking years ago. But the second best time is right this very moment. So that's where I would, if you're looking into getting some kind of membership, you don't have one yet, maybe you've just been kind of, co-tailing when you're friends, memberships, fineage in, let's get 24 hour access. Because if you do, then that's just one more barrier to entry of getting your daily work at it that is now off the table. Because I know so many guys where it's very easy for them to say, oh, do the gym to the close at nine, man, it's already 7.45. Now, now it's just where, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, not freaking cool, right? So if you can start to hold yourself to a standard like that before you know it, you won't have to hold yourself to that standard. That's just what you're gonna be used to. It's like that frog in the pot of boiling water. If you increase the temperature slowly, it's not gonna jump out. There's the dude who's like, you know, get used to it. He might be thinking, man, it's gonna warm here, but he's still gonna keep going. And that might not be the best analogy because the frog gets oiled low-eye at the end of it. But you get what I'm saying. So all that's to say is if I have any specific statements or phrases or mantras going in the next year, or I guess for you, not since this video has been posted, this year, I'd say, kill it consistently. Actually, that's pretty much it. If you kill it consistently, then after not that long, you will start to notice that you have been. And I'm gonna talk in just like, subjective like, oh, I feel pretty good too. I'm talking physical friggin results. But that's as much as I can say. As much as I can talk about how cool the gym is and like, I love getting the pump. That's just my experience. You gotta get after it and make that shit happen yourself. So hopefully we see some more freaks pop out of the woodworks coming into this 2025. So I'm gonna pull out of this exit and not crash and then go home eat something. And then I've gotten 30 minutes to cardio. Still. Ugh. I'm gonna stop in my parents house for just a little new year's hangin'. And then go home, stop to the apartment gym, bus to have 30 minutes on the C-debike. Have a shower because I'm sure I stink. And then start this next year off with a good night's rest. I'll probably even have a dream about the back day that I'm gonna have tomorrow. So I think that's all I got. Now, if you can see in next year.

Alright, day two, day two of the year, 50% I don't know what I'm talking about, not 50%. Barely even, barely even 0.1%, but whatever. I saw some new faces. I saw a couple of new faces when I was doing cardio this morning. I guess I'll just have to see which ones end up sticking around or not. And if you've got your eyes open, you know, if you keep a lookout, you should start to notice who's actually getting after it. And I don't mean like on a day by day basis. Obviously, I guess I do. You can tell if somebody's trying to kill it. But just over time too, I mean, I've seen dudes where, you know, the course of a few years, the term unrecognizable does not feel at a place to describe how the sort of transformation has gone. So I mean, pretty drastic things can be done. You know, just takes a long time to do. Right? But we'll see, I would love to have access to all of the gyms, like YMCA's and plan of fitness is in any times, like actual analytics. It just says, really, you see what happens during this time of year. Because we all get the gist, you know, there's more people. New years resolution or type characters. Or, you know, just anybody where New years happen to be the time that they got their membership. But it would really be interesting if they would actually release that info of, like, how many new memberships were paid for versus not used. And then like, what percentage of dudes actually basically just show about a nowhere and say, alright, I'm gonna make this happen. What percentage of guys actually make it happen after they say, like, alright, 25. New year, New mean, for real. Zero irony, pure iron. It's got to be low. It's got it sucks that it's low, but I would probably wage your view would be a little bit on the lower end. But it's, I mean, the hype will die down. So just keep an eye out. I'm sure you'll see some new regulars. But I don't want to, I don't want to make every drive just talking about new years resolutions. So I'll try to make this my last time talking about it. We get a dollar or all our regular sort of topics. But, you know, I'll tell you now. And this will be, maybe I'll save this clip on my, on my desktop to look at later. It's like, the year has just begun. What do you want to set out to do? And then hopefully this is, I'll find this clip later. All right, a full year has passed, man. What happened? We haven't been to show for it. I would hope so, but it's not, not my, not my split, not my workouts. Right, not my circus, not my monkeys there. That's, that's up for you. That's up to you to get sort of. But for me, I am much more concerned if we can make sure that I have a free lead back day today at a certain purple and yellow gym. Followed by some pretty lengthy cardio. And, yeah, post-workout cardio is going to be a little extra lengthy tonight too. I got to start getting real here. So after back, I'll do a 30 minutes on a seated bike, followed by 30 minutes on the treadmill, which is not that crazy. You know, mild incline just to get a little bit of extra umph, but walking into the treadmill for 30 minutes at three miles an hour. I tell you, in my own half, it's really not that strenuous. The bike can actually get kind of tricky because you're really peddling like, I'll be sweating pretty hard. I almost use the cardio on the treadmill as like an extension of my elevated heart rate. But without thrashing my quads into oblivion. Because an hour on the seated bike, if you're peddling pretty hard, I'll feel it. Like, I will definitely feel some fatigue building up. But the treadmill, not so much. And then, obviously the treadmill goes by so much faster. Anytime I'm watching a show, I'm saving squid game season two exclusively for only what I'm doing cardio. But, you know, now that I'm doing more than a freaking hour a day, I feel like I'm just watching the show in my regular pace. But, you know, if you can try to distract yourself in the fact that you're doing it, it does make it a lot easier. And then, one more little cardio tip before getting into it. The back day is going to look like, cover it up the time. Do not watch the clock in it. If I'm sitting on the seat of a bike and I'm peddling, and I'm starting to feel a little bit uncomfortable, like okay, I'm puffing the puffing. You really think it's going to do me in a good look at the clock and say, oh, I've only been doing this for 45 seconds. Huh. Yeah. Not really. You know, so I always cover up the timer with a towel, or I get a clipboard or like fold up some paper towels or something. Just so that I don't have to look at it. Because it kind of, if you can get into a little bit of a, not a meditative state, I would not call me getting, you know, 50% of the way to crashing out a clash royale after I get to, you know, my skeleton already logged. I would not call that a meditative state, but you're certainly in a state where time starts to pass a little bit more quickly. So, I like to say there is being not look at the timer before you know it. Oh, 30 minutes. What'd be? Very nice. But so for the actual back portion of the lift, just pull down, rows and pullovers, man. And then probably a combination of a pull down in a row or a pullover in a row, as like the finisher kind of a superset just a really kind of pump up my entire back lats to traps. Or I guess traps to, you know, traps to lats. And then, ever post that, the stakes are kind of low with the train right now. The normal main would force go hard, get a pump. You know, I'm not really crazy concerned with any progressive overload. I don't need to get any, not only doing that knee, but I'm not getting any bigger and stronger right now. All I'm doing in this dining phase is maintaining the muscle that I've already built. And what is all I really need to do in the gym. Get a pump, make sure you go hard and do my cardio. So the cardio is obviously probably the more. Well, not important, but the part of the training is actually a little bit trickier for me. Because I love getting the first, getting the freaking back pump. But, you know, adding 60 minutes of LIS, S-Lone intensity, steady state cardio. That's, that's a little bit trickier. And I don't think I'm alone in that boat. But, if you're looking into some sort of way to differentiate yourself from the rest of the lifters in your local area. Consistent cardio is a pretty reasonable way to do it. Nobody wants to. It's hard. It takes time. It's not very exciting or fun. And there's no immediate reward. It's a long-term type situation. So, if you can do what nobody else does, you probably get some results and nobody else is going to get. That's a pretty good way to think about anything. But, I think no more jetting. I'm getting reasonably amped up and excited for back. So, let's just hope it's not too busy and get this lift started. So, I've kind of developed a habit of basically just doing a lot of regular, straight bar pull downs and like, single arm cable rows to start my back days off. And not that I think there's anything wrong with that. But, I kind of want to break the pattern. So, let's start with this machine, underhand pull down. First of all, it's not the full stack, but just enough weight where I can really get a good squeeze at the bottom. Because that's one thing that's machine is good for. It's not just the movement path. It's a good hold at the bottom and really feeling like my lats right within, and it's all the way down, like right above my hips. I feel like you're right here to pull down. I kind of feel like more so in my lats like up here, where is this is way down there. Okay. Oh, goodness. Whoops. Two of these being good starter. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, goodness. I think let's move on to the low row. Right next me. No need to move too far. These reps will look very different, a little bit more rapid, but I still want to call this Sling it around just a bit of faster pace set. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. One more. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's good. They're a superset. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

The time currently 1737, just about desk, and I have one thing on my agenda. I actually have a couple, but for statements, I think let's just say I have one thing, and that is to go nuts. Nutton triceps, nuts on biceps, a little bit nuts on shoulders, and I'm not even lying this time. I am actually going to do some side-delt stuff, plus nuts on cardio afterward. The cardio's getting serious. If you want to stay reasonably updated on my cardio schedule, every time I finish some of it, I ended up just spamming it in my Instagram story. So I think my right now it's like, bike, treadmill, 12 hours later, bike, treadmill, 12 hours later, bike, treadmill, bike, just camping out. And I hate to say it, but I think at this point, I've done more cardio in the last few weeks than probably a certain percentage of lifters have done in the last three years, which is not a situation I want to be true. Frankly, I think everybody should be clocking in way more hours of cardio than they are now, but what do you do? Whoa, it's getting crazy, huh? But either way, you do have to somehow fit it into your schedule, and get into the hour to our range of cardio per day. That's definitely its own. That's not just general fitness. But what I would recommend, 30 minutes, a couple of times a week. And I'm just getting into it. And if you can find like a Facebook marketplace, treadmill, or a seated bike, or something, and then keep that like in the garage and the basement, that is really the best bet. Because they don't have to drive to the gym and make a whole trip out of it. So if you don't want to do that, then cardio, post workout, 30 minutes. I mean, usually I wouldn't recommend cardio, post workout, especially not on a leg. If I just thrashed my legs, I think sitting and peddling for 30 minutes and really burning them out isn't going to do me much good. I'd probably want to at least wait a few hours before doing that. But your best bet cardio on its own separate occasion hours before the lift, second best bet post workout is cool too. It doesn't, some guys talk about the cardio timing is if doing post workout cardio will immediately kill your gains and your whole workout was worthless. It's not that serious. But as long as you're getting it in somehow, I think you're giving yourself a bit of a competitive edge compared to anybody who doesn't. In terms of tonight's lift, I'm not exactly sure how it's going to be oriented. I know there's going to be some machine dips involved. There will definitely be some rope extension and some overhead extension involved. And then biceps will just be whatever curls kind of, you know, take off my fancy for the most part because my biceps do not feel particularly picky like with chest. I guess maybe am I really that picky with machines in general? Well, with biceps, if you put me on any curl machine, like if you said Sam, or you get a lift at a hotel gym for arms tonight, there's no dumbbells. There's only this machine preacher. There's only this like seated curl or held there's only dumbbells that all you get to do is dumbbell curls. That is pretty much totally cool with me because I mean all your biceps is doing is going from here to here. So as long as you really push it, I think you're cool. There's not a need to really freak out of that, make sure you do 10 different movements, some focusing on the stretch, some folks can always squeeze. Like obviously I think there's value to that. That's too much of one thing is usually kind of going to stray you from the path of just basic gains. Like, don't forget the hierarchy of importance of your training, I would say intensity and consistency are like S tier, versatility or it's the kind of variability like making sure you do different sets. That's more like A tier. Like it's up there. So I would never recommend someone only do dumbbell curls for the rest of their life. But if all that guy did was dumbbell curls and he went crazy every set, he's still going to make bicep gains. So what I'm more concerned with in terms of like my exercise selection is okay. How can I hit whatever muscle group I'm hitting? And how can I hit it? I mean how many different ways and how many different movement styles are there for this particular muscle group? Because with something like chest, there's a few different movements. We know this pressing and fly-based work. Now there's a little bit of a combination where you have like converging pressing where it's kind of a half fly, half press. But for the most part you press stuff and you do some stretch focus flies. With triceps you get dips, machine or body weight personally, I'm a little bit too tight. I think for body weight the machine's feel much better. I don't get any chest involved and everything. There's regular push-downs and then there's overhead extensions of all sorts of rides. Like skilled crushers, overhead cable, there are some really fancy overhead triceps machines. Though there are a bit rare to come by unfortunately not as popular as like leg extensions and leg curls or whatever. But those are the big three for triceps. I know that if I hit my triceps and check off all three boxes, push down, dip overhead extension because I basically get my triceps works in all of the major ways that I can. And then at the end of it I can tell I'm fully pumped. I had a good workout. Then I'm golden, right? The important part isn't making sure that every specific workout hits every specific different time of everything. It's like, you know, hit it over the course of time. I don't want to do one tricep workout forever. I want to keep changing it up day by day. Even just based on how I feel on a day by day basis. But I'm much more concerned with making sure my effort is there. A well-written workout, executed poorly, will never even come close to comparing to a simple workout executed with, well, let's just say, tightest. Level engagement or intensity. Is it tightest? Tactics. I don't know, I keep seeing all the warhammer edits so I can make it kind of excited. But I'm not really, I don't really play games like that. It's almost like I just want to watch, like I want to see a warhammer movie. Like, I really well done, like CGI, everything. I don't know, I don't really play story games like that. It just doesn't get me going. I'm going to be the way within, including the drive about an hour and 20 minutes. I can pretty much guarantee I'm going to have a freaky arm pump. And then I'll be ready to slam a ton of water either of the water found or just get a jug in the bedding machine. I forgot to bring one. And then get ready for a... Oh, no, crap. I was about to say, get ready for an episode of Squid Game to watch during my cardio. I actually stayed up kind of late last night and I watched an extra two episodes. I should have just watched TikTok Reels or something because now I don't have a show. I guess I'll watch some suits. But anyway, that's a me problem. How about we, how about we stop talking, go get this lift started? All right, so I've got a plan. And what that plan is is as many back and forth as necessary to reach a state of being fully pumped of a tricep movement supersetted with biceps. So I've got a history of starting with squeezing stuff. Be it single on push downs, rope extensions with a good hold at the bottom. And then with curls. Well, I'll start with some regular dumbbell curls too. But I feel like I've kind of been starting with lighter squeezing sets in the last few arm days for curls also. So let's flip it around. Just start with some nasty reasonably weighted sets. Kind of quicker pace, no need for like a full one second hold at the bottom and a super slow eccentric. I'll save those sets for a little bit later. But let's get this started here. From here on. That one. That one. Mm. Yeah. Mmmm. Oh my gosh. Let's see one more just like that. Let's see the three or move on to a new pair of movements. It's all the way down. your All right, let's pick it in your pack. Let's pick a new pair. Whoo! Let's see some overhead rope extension jump over to the other side. I'm just a heavy, he's a bar curl. Came on me. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Oh. Okay. Let's go to the light for the next one. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Yeah. Okay Mhm Hey Nice As you never hear Oh, okay. All right. Time to dance. Oh, yeah. Oh. There we go. All right. So arms are freaking complete. They feel, they feel freaking nuts. Now the discrepancy, the torn, the torn between the subjective value of the pump right now, and the subjective value of like, how energized I feel. Very much in this direction. All right. Like, I, yeah, I'm definitely getting a bit of a relief wave that the lift is over. Not in the sense that I'm like, oh, so don't work it out. But I'm definitely feeling some of the additional fatigue of dieting. And I'm used to being in more of, you know, bulked 800 grams of carbs intake per day. So this is definitely a little bit different than my normal sort of sensation. But I still feel pretty freaking freaky. Yeah, even just really shit. Even just after one set of lateral raises, and I've already got a very bold, shoulder pump. There's a reason I'm not doing a lot of shoulders right now. And so you think for the back. Actually, let's lose the tank. But the hell am I doing? Oh, give me some. Oh, is it just me? But I feel like my last spread is better without a back pump. Is I can really open up more? Because when I pumped up, it's like, you know, yeah, my lats are extra like full and inflated. But I don't get that same like opening up because they're so tense. But holy crap, I got to do one more. There's a little Christmas tree flexus. Oh, my gosh. Oh, all right. Oh, I'm so happy. Oh, I'm so happy. Oh, I'm so happy. Oh, all right. Let's get a most muscular in it. Get ready for some more cardio. The, I think this alternating style of tries and by work for these upcoming arm days is going to have to be the way to go about it for two reasons. One, it's a little bit of a quicker lift. I can be a bit denser with my workload. And it doesn't feel so much like a marathon, which I'm doing enough freaking cardio as it is. I don't need these workouts to really extend beyond, you know, the 45 minute rain. And also, my arms are just way more pumped for the post down. When I do tries back and forth with bice because right now, this pump is already fleeting. Like, why aren't there already probably beginning to shrink down just to touch and lose some of the blood that I just works are hard to put into them. Because I'm running low like for me, 150 grams of carbs and below per day. That's not complaining. But that definitely feels as though it's on the low end. But that's kind of the whole point of this portion of my training. So it's just, it's just the nature of it. But awesome arm day with a tiny little hint of shoulders. I got an hour cardio, but for you, you need to jump straight into the car and jealous. There's this, there's a, there's a third gen. There is a certain catharsis to sitting in a warm car, scrolling Instagram after a good workout with some cardio at the kick of it. Usually I would say after a leg day because that's where I'm really kind of feeling the tiredness of a lift. But no, I get that every lift. Okay. Because it's finished with some cardio. So plan now is go home, get ready for a nice big bowl of ground turkey with sugar-free ketchup, as well as all my multivitemins and nice cinnumide and any scene, everything else. And then go to sleep early. It's 8.48. So I've been kind of sitting in my phone for a little while. And I bet eventually I'm just going to fall in this fall in the car, fall asleep in the car after a lift. I've never done it before. But depending on the intensity of this deficit, I would not be surprised if after like, you know, a tricky back there, some kind of heavier whatever, weren't really feeling the low carb effect, plus the fatigue from the extra cardio that I get nice and bundled up, heat to the max, see heater going crazy, plus a little bit of a phone stimulus. I get his pass out right there. Though, I guess we'll just have to see. Until then, I'm kind of getting excited to, I'm getting excited to have a hot shower. Because I just generally feel colder now. Like, when I'm full of food in a crazy amount, it's to the point where I'm just kind of not constantly sweating, but like, peak bulk just walking around and like, even just standing up for a while, I'll get some drips down my back. Not so much now, not so much, because in the deficit, I mean, it's, I'm getting chipper down. Like, especially in the morning, getting up to the cardio, like I'm wearing two pairs of sweatpants, plus a sweater, just because the car is freaking freezing. And it takes, well, it doesn't take a while to warm up, because it doesn't get warm, because all I do is ride it over to the apartment gym. But, yeah, so. Other than that, I'm pretty much, well, it'll still be a little while, but my current challenge is breaking into the 220s in terms of my morning empty stomach fast at weight. Getting past the 230 mark is proving to be trickier than expected, but definitely not impossible. So, as soon as I break into the 229.9s, you will know it, you will freaking hear that. And that's pretty much close to my end goal, lemme. Like, for my height, I've got to be able to check in at 217 pounds, so I'm bacon on being 27, just walking around a lean, empty stomach, and then having a 10 pound water depletion over the 3-year or 2-year 3 days pre-show. Which 10 pounds of water for my size, not that crazy. I mean, if I ever have a day where I don't drink enough water or, like any time we travel anywhere, and we're walking around air-porth and stuff, like I just lose five pounds like that, just from the extra dehydration and stuff like that. So, I don't think that's too unfeasible. So, now, I kind of feel like I'm just really waiting for time to pass. Because if I'm not, if I'm not like on my desk, think I'm with something, or like mess with the camera stuff, or the videos, or going down like a YouTube rabbit hole. Because if I'm just sitting board or whatever, the urge to grub, it's getting strong. Like this is definitely not a passive state of dieting that a man is getting, especially now, I mean, if I actually want to hit the goals that I want to reach, like there's no room for fumble, so really what I'm trying to do is just make sure that I'm occupied with something. All right, ooh, I had almost all times just so that I, you know, I just got my mind on something. Because I don't hands or the stomachs play thing. Because if you're not really doing anything, you're just kind of walking around, no. I wonder what's in the pantry. Ooh, I would mind it got my hand full of cheeses. I wouldn't mind if you'd go fish. Peanut butter crackers? Don't mind if I do. And then before you know it, you just have next to 1000 calories of snacks, which you probably did not even really want to eat. But just because you weren't thinking about it, you were kind of walking around mindlessly. It's like, you caught yourself in the act. And that's where it's, like, as much benefit as there is to really just make sure you're killing it on the regular. I'd say one of the biggest sort of tricks to getting ahead in anything is not putting yourself in a situation where you're behind, right? So who's going to do better? The guy who is like seriously locked in 50% of the time, crazy hardcore dieting. And then the other 40% he has like cheat days. And he like skip the cardio. Or the guy who's like pretty much evenly consistently locked in, not like it in same crazy deficit. Like he's not going crazy. But he's consistent. That consistency is where these results are going to come from. So don't, it's not necessarily how hard of a cardio session can you do today. It's what kind of cardio session can you do consistently over the course of the next three months, or over the course of the next forever. Ideally, because the cardio shouldn't just be a, you know, a one time phase. Hope, hope hypothetically, hopefully that should become kind of just, you know, a new lifestyle, right? But who knows, that seems like a distant future when the majority of people get their 30 minutes of, 30 minutes of cardio-vascular activity per day. But a lift you can dream. So I think, uh, it's pretty much all the rest to say. Freaky arm day. Only more veins and cuts to come. So all I gotta do is make sure I'm nice and well rested. Dr. Maro's leg day, which is probably the lift that I care about being the most well rested for. Out of all the, um, I'll make a course every lift I want to be well rested. But if I'm really kind of feel-and-tired and extra-lethargic on a leg day, that's the trickiest. That is the most, uh, the most gruesome. Oh, it was a hard, but I think I'm just about ready for bed. So a little bit of a quicker post lift update. I will have more to more lifting-based chat to, uh, get into Maro for legs. So I think I'll just see you then.

Now it's official. It is a gosh dang winter freaking wonderland. So I can almost guarantee. Well, I don't know, it's not that bad. Honestly, snow in Ohio, people pretty much know what they're doing. They're not just spilling out at the first hint of slickness. But I've definitely gone through some highway interactions where like every mile you'd basically see either one car on its own who just kind of spun out and was off on the side or sometimes even ever seen a real pile up. But it's in will happen. So hopefully the weather does not encumber any of us to the point that transport to the gym becomes impossible. Because that's just a pure shame. So it's I guess that's kind of up to you. Right? It's like, what are you driving skills like? Do you think you're going to be able to make it? Are you rocking something that's four wheel drive? You know, it's like if you're in a damn highlander with some shredded kind of lifted truck style wheels and maybe you're cool. But even just coming out of the park and that earlier sometimes the camera has a tendency to just sort of spin its wheels and not really get anywhere. So I got to be a little conscious about that. But I'm never going to be at a total loss because I got a part of a gym. It's kind of scrappy like it's nothing like a real hard core or whatever. But cables, luggage extension, chest press, leg curl, back machine, everything I could need for just some basic kind of workouts. So that's where having a home gym or at least something like right next to where you live is a total hack because I mean, you never know what happened. But in terms of today's lift with legs, I was actually planning on leaving for the gym a little bit later in the day. But then I'm sitting screw on Instagram and I hear there's a post with, I think it's a two-world collide. I don't know, some kind of some kind of like just hype rocky style song that was getting me excited. So a little bit of an earlier lift than I had it intentionally or I guess originally planned. And I'm good with that. I am good with that. Because the later I left the later I got to have my post workout meal, the hungry I'm going to be right before bed. And then the trick here, it's going to be for me to stick to my calorie deficit. There's one sort of overarching kind of hack trick, whatever that I'm using to make sure I don't go over. And that is basically just saving my eating window for later in the day. Because it's not that hard for me to wait until one o'clock to, you know, basically crack the seal, start eating. Because I already haven't eaten yet. So actually breaking my fast breakfast meal number one, saving it for a little bit later, not that hard. The problem is once I start eating, it's almost like okay now I'm feeling extra hungry, you know. So I got to be a little, not a little, I got to be very mindful about my, um, um, uh, about my meal sizes in my meal timing. So far I've had about 500 something calories. I think about 70 ish of protein, 15 or 18 of fats or so. And then about 35 of carbs. So that's less than, like, one, uh, what's it called? What's like the classic McDonald sandwich, like the big one? Is that less than a big Mac? I feel like a big Mac is like 600 calories. Well, either way, not a lot. That is kind of the whole free-go-poor. So hour of cardio done in the morning, nothing too crazy. Just seated by for 30 minutes and then 30 minutes on the, um, the treadmill. Three miles per hour, three and a half percent in claim. Just as an extension of my elevated heart rate window, which is kind of the whole point of the cardio, if not basically the point. But yeah, so it's been about, yeah, it's been a while. I did that in nine. It's 430. So I'm completely recovered from that cardio. Like I'm not feeling the residual fatigue in my legs from having done that earlier, which means I have no reason to hold back. I'm going as crazy as possible, or at least, you know, for my current state on the hands, add doctors, quote, a catch. And apart from just deficit fatigueness, I haven't drank my pre-work again. I'm saving that for kind of right when I walk in the door, because legs is a bit of a lengthier lift form. So I kind of want to extend the window of my caffeination, or at least delay it until mid-ish lifts, right? Want to get into quads. Because hamstrings, I don't really have a problem with unstimulate. If I just had a hamstring day, I would just do a non-stimpreach, because it's like I don't even, I just don't even need the caffeine form. But with quads, that's where I start to feel. So if I drink the pre as a walk in inner after I park, by the time I've walked in, warmed up, put all my stuff down, got ready, have done a couple of set of hamstrings, and then I will have basically started to get the sort of, what is it, nor up of headtrain, effect of the caffeine, whatever it kind of breaks down into that gives you that sort of energy boosts per se. By the time quads is beginning, that's when it also kind of kick in. And that's something that I think not as many people think about as they should, because it's like, okay, I'm doing chest. I'm watching, or I'm watching a guy do chest or something, you know, just as an example. And I watch him finish, like he just basically drinks his pre, ten minutes before his first working set. Like, or he's drinking it as he's warming up. And then it's like, dude, you only just consume it. Like if there was bait aligning in there, you can't even feel it working, you haven't digested it. It's just sitting in your stomach. It's not even, you know, actually reaching sort of peak, would've be peak blood concentration levels, or like peak nitric oxide, vasodilation, whatever else. Like it takes a little while for that sort of thing to kick in. So if that's one little tip I haven't said for a while, it's been, I'd say aimed for about 30 minutes before the working set that you want to really be in the zone for in terms of the pre-workout time. And use that with an ample amount of water. I mean, I don't usually have like a full liter, which is one scoop. It's, I think that's just about like double the recommended amount of water. Like usually it says eight to ten ounces. I say go up, or at least if you don't want to have like a diluted drink, just drink an extra liter. Because the whole point of your pump, it's not just like magically inflating whatever muscle you're working. Like your 70% freaking water, man. And your pump, I'd say, is even more than 70% water. I'd say it's getting in probably the 85% rate. Just not just pure blood. So if you get a big extra sort of, what you say, just intake of fluids, I can guarantee it will have a positive reaction, or at least a positive effect on how well your lift goes. But either way, I'm going to get in the zone, get rid of the start of this leg day. And hopefully see some new vein striations, cuts and everything else that I have not seen in the lift's prior, which over the course of the next few weeks should begin to get even more and more pronounced, which is basically my primary motivation for making sure I don't just stop a cheat and get two ben and jerrys and just go completely freaking wild. Because that is simply not in line with the goal, so that I want to achieve. And it's easier to set the down for sure, because I've definitely got a bit of a sweet tooth, which is kind of starting to want to act up since I've been depriving it. But I can handle it. I can handle it. In no ways that it can point. So I think that's all I got to say. This is going to get this leg day started. Let's start with just a basic heavy set of double of laying curls. No fancy hold, no fancy tampon or fancy nothing. Just as many reps as I can do at a moderate tempo. But I think after a few sets of this, I'll probably just seal the finish table RDLs and that'll be the end of it. I got one that's lighter, but let's run that back. Probably two more just like that. 170 feels much more doable than 190. One more little lighter, and then let's give it some cable, whatever you want. I might not need two sets already else, and it'll be yeah. It's going to be the happenment and the real portion that lifts starts. I have just been made unfortunately aware that that two free motion arm cable is broken. Somebody snapped the handle off of one side, and it wasn't even me this time. So instead, dumbbell RDLs will suffice. Not every hit come off. Oh, my gosh. Oh, my gosh. One more though, as I think will be good. And I am trying my damn to keep my lower back reasonably straight. Like, and I can catch me doing like this. But for what I can tell, a little bit of bend isn't the end of the world, but I guess maybe some fitness advice is sort of my take on the matter. But I am trying to keep it straighter. Because I want to hinge up my hips. Like, I want to feel my hips rotate forward so that my hamstrings get a little bit of an extra stretch. I'm just going to be as good as I can. Oh, my gosh. Oh, my gosh. Oh, my gosh. Oh, my gosh. Oh, my gosh. Oh, my gosh. Oh, my gosh. Oh, my gosh. That's enough hamstrings. That's a good one, started. Instead of five and the left five and the right five and the right. Let's just do these first couple. And there's a reason I want to do this side first. This quad is a little bit on the slimmer side than my right one. I think part of it is could just be a muscal insertion muscal muscal muscal muscular insertion type situation, but like my upper corner over here if you can imagine like this chunk of quad is a little slimmer than up here. And it could be to do the fact that I'm like right leg to the basics and all the diving stuff. I was always jumping off over this one, not this one, but. Others say is this one's a little bit behind. Mass works. So I want to hit failure on the left side and then just mash the reps on the right. So if I keep it next to five here, I'm going to call it like 15 15 was failure on this set. And I stand by that pretty strongly about trying to work on any balance. If you're right by step as bigger than the left one. Don't just train the left one extra. Just train the left side first with some isolated side movements and then match reps to the strong side. And if you're really worried about like all my left lad is a little. This stuff is just going to balance out over time. So trying to distress too bad and just keep your intensity up. Alright. Alright. Oh, a few more just like that. Oh, actually go even just in touch heavier. Oh, no. Oh, no. Oh, okay. One more. The lighter too. Only one thirty instead of one seventy five. Oh. Alright. Now let's do some ligate extensions. I'm going to do some ligate extensions. Now my plan for this too is slow long hold of the squeeze leg extensions double leg. And this is just purely acting as a pre exhaust jump behind me hold out of the machine for support and then do some deep stretch since it's quads. Oh, yeah. One more. Oh my god. Oh. Oh. Okay. Alright. Let's go see her quad and hamstring pop this. Alright. So that makes portion A the main course the lifts complete hamstrings and quads. I'm not done yet. I'm still going to go up there and camp out on the seated calf raise and the ad dr. machine. But that's pretty self-explanatory. I mean, all that is is just freaking pop in a squat and really just kind of doing the sets. Especially the the ad dr machine like it doesn't. I'm not getting myself amped up for a set of ad drs to complete you know, growing obliteration. That's kind of just not the nature of the movement. But I would certainly recommend that you add them to your routine if you're not currently because having a strong set of ad drs this whole inner chunk of everything is going to play into the rest of your lift. Very well. My squats feel much more stable because I'm not so prone to this like lateral side to side like stilliness because my ad drs is strong and I don't pull things as much. You know, so I couldn't recommend it enough sit down heavy. You can go you know, however many sets. I'll probably do like six, but even just standing. Let's see how quads are looking. Okay, this might. Oh, that might be the freakyest that this quad has looked pumped at least in terms of actual like muscular grain. I'm going to do a little breath hold and do one more quad stop. Oh goodness. And this side has a touch. A little more on this tier drop portion like I can feel a couple. Instestations which will be the begin to sort of show themselves as I get a bit leaner, but I am feeling pretty good about this. And this is pumped. So mind you try steps and quads especially. With a pump obviously you're a little bigger. You might be a little extra. Vaney. But you lose some like detail. Because if you imagine my quads is like a big balloon. You know, if you take them in flu, like a balloon that's meant to be square. And you over and flate it you keep pumping eventually it's just going to get round. And you're going to lose all that detail. So same thing with your quads and a touch or in a way. Because it's like sure they're extra big. They're a little bit larger than normal, but they're not as cut up and freaky. Like as grainy as this portion of my left quad looks. It's actually freaky or unpumped because all these individual Strations and grains can show themselves off a little more clearly in an unpumped state. But let's see how the sort of side chest poses looking. And so we're going to go to the next step. We're getting somewhere. We are most certainly getting somewhere. But for you, let's get in the car. For me, I'm going back upstairs to pump out some ad, Dr. and calf work. Probably six or so sets each just enough to get a reasonable pump. And then post lift cardio. That's still going on, but I'm going to eat a meal first. Because I don't really think it's in my best interest to have now totally Thrasch my quads and then burn them out on the cardio bike and the treadmill. At least without a meal in between. So that'll be my plan for after. My post meal workout. But for you, let's get back in the camera. There we go. Wow. Lift completes. Legs destroyed. I did eight sets of the stack on the ad doctor machine for 15 reps each set. And those sets were not so failure, but my ad doctors were definitely starting to feel some fatigue during the last few reps of each. So more than solid ad doctor isolation work. And I'm definitely going to feel those in the morning tomorrow. They even got a little bit of work with those dumbbell articles. So I'm a little bit less prone to like. Artials on the Smith machine or like with a barbell now. Because I have to have my hands. Like, you know, together in front of my shins. Because I've got a metal bar connecting them. Obviously, my hands can't go past my shins. Right. But with the dumbbells, I can kind of ride the front of my shins down the bottom and have the weight a little more close to like. Where my center of mass is on my feet. Either, well, just having the weight a little closer to my legs. I can tell feels a little bit better. That's why I like the cable already. Which as well as something about the strength curve of the cables too. But obviously, one of the cables is busted so no cable for me. But dumbbells are definitely a close second. And I'm getting better at feeling my hips like rotate inward. Or I guess forward more like during those Artials. But I could tell on that second set, especially with the sideways angle. I went back and looked. And this is one benefit of recording all these sets. Back and like see little changes. I could tell I was starting to have some form breakdown and some extra roundness of my lower back. Not to the point of like injury or danger, but definitely to the point of lower back activation. Which I don't want to do an hamstring movement, you know. But that was a pretty solid, pretty solid lift overall. Hamstrings hit well. Some heavy stuff and some slightly lighter squeezing work with those Artials. And then the leg extensions into those Sissy squats. Those were really nasty. I meant to say it before, but I was kind of like in the middle of it. There is something about the Sissy squats. Some kind of factor that actually improves the feeling that I get from them. When I already have a quad pump. Because at the bottom it's like I really am just basically bouncing my entire body weight through the tension. It's been built up in my quads. So it's almost like, It's kind of, I don't even know how I get explained. Well, just the sort of increased tension in that stretch position. From already having pumped up quads. Kind of gives me a little bit of like an advantage in the bottom. Where it doesn't feel like I'm just bottoming out. And then I have to force the weight back up. It really does feel like I'm just bouncing through my quads in like a, like a spring kind of style. So it's definitely kind of tricky. And with those I would advise be on the side of caution. Here on the side of caution, me-wise. Because that is a lot of tension really just going straight through your knees. I like any time I've had a sore knee or something or like I bumped it really hard on a corner. Or I tried a couple months ago. I did a, I was jumping off like a little pier. Like not high. It was like maybe a five foot, I don't even, like four foot drop to the water. But I do like a one leg at gainer. And of course, I'm not used to any impacts at all. I do like slow kind of workout-based training, you know, nothing athletic. So I had like, I gave myself a little chunk of like, Ozgood slotters where like my patello was a little bit tender in one spot. So like anytime something like that happens, I'm not going to be doing anything crazy. I like the, those Sissy squads because it's going to hurt my knees, right? But as long as everything's in working water, I really do like those. So those are going to be kind of a staple right now because workload-wise, quads are not really getting hit with as much weight as they would be in a bulking context. Because what I'm trying to do is maintain the quad size that I've already built. You know, it's not, it's not really conducive with muscle maintenance and injury prevention. It's a try to squat as much weight as possible right now. Even for like a legit set of, you know, eight. So I'm kind of curbing my ego and just back and off to some more kind of isolated hamstring and quad work. But that's probably good for me. Every so often, I'm not every so often, but every time I squat real heavy for long enough or I'm doing really heavy pressing, usually some kind of tweak starts to make itself apparent. Whether it's like my adductor or like a part of my quad or my knee or something. So I do need to have a little bit more of a detector or a sensitive kind of sense just for any time. I start to tweak something. Because there's nothing wrong with giving yourself a tweak. There's nothing wrong with having something to feel out of place or like, oh crap, my my shoulders really, oh like maybe you did something like, I'm not talking like an injury event. I just mean like, oh yeah, my shoulders been bothering me. Absolutely nothing wrong with that. That's just going to come with training. Now where you can actually turn that into a mistake is by not acting accordingly and saying, okay, my shoulder feels a little weird today. Like not even hurting, but like I'm warming up, I'm doing my push downs and my rotated cuff work before I start chest. My shoulder feels a little weird. Maybe I shouldn't try to bench as much as I ever have. Maybe that would be a bad idea. Maybe I should be a little more conservative with the weight, do some lighter squeezing stuff today. That is what the smarter lift it would do. And that's what I'm trying to get better at. My rate of injury has decreased dramatically. I kind of wish I had like a like a note pattern or something. I just like a note to my phone or every time I like pull my hamstring or pull my chest or tweaked my knee or did something else something weird that I would write it down because I have not had much of that over the last few months. We just get and not gone freaking wood. I'm not asking for any trouble there. But I think that's just reflective in that one of my newer priorities, which is definitely taken. It's up there. It's top tier priorities is not hurting myself. Because if I want to take steps forward, what's the exact opposite of what that goal is? Right? Taking steps back tweaking your stuff. So, oh, that's to say is right. As much as you should be full throttling your intensity or at least getting up to that 90% range on the regular. Keep in mind like a gay. You got to come back and lift tomorrow. Because a 315 single really seemed like it's worth it today. You should hold a few little weird just because all your boys are you know, hype and you up. Doesn't mean you need to completely obliterate your rotator cuff. Like, what's a good example? Well, like somebody who obliterated their rotator cuff. Right? So, just try to keep that in mind. And it's often easier said than done. That's where I really feel like the 10 rep PR deserves more praise. Like, I want the 10 rep PR to get some forefront action in terms of like, you know, impressiveness. Because really one rep max, I mean, I want to say who cares. But obviously we know who cares. One rep max is a cool. It's a crazy man away, whatever. It's not really, you know, that's not normal life. That's not something you do on the regular. Like, everybody's one rep max. I'd say 70% of the time isn't even what their current one rep max is. I mean, technically, I could say my one rep max is 450. Because I did 450 on flat bench ones. And my butt came off the bench because this was a couple of years ago. It was a little scrappy or as a lifter. And, well, let's just say I would not want to get under 450 pounds right now on flat bench. You know, so it's like just try to think in the long term. You know, is it going to be better for you to crumple yourself under five plates on a barbell squat with the safety's barely at like a non-lethal level? And then, you know, have me try to spot it for a TikTok video, which unfortunately, real story. And there were two attempts. Both, well, that weight looked like it was going down and not up both. But I'll try to get out there is, don't hurt yourself. I think that's a pretty well understood and easily acceptable tip. But, you know, sometimes everybody's got it here. And it takes a little while to kind of ingrain those sort of ideas. I mean, me as a lifter now versus even just two years ago. I've got some very different thoughts on the matter of basically all sorts of stuff working out wise. And I can guarantee that two years from now, probably even less, even just a year. Well, let's say two, I'm going to have some very different thoughts than what I have right now. And that's totally cool. I mean, that's kind of the idea, right? As new information emerges, you should be getting smarter. And you should be kind of developing different opinions and different approaches you're training. And not even that, but after another two years of training, even if you do the same workouts, you should now be a totally new guy because you just came out of two extra years of training. So all sorts of variables are changing all the time. So to approach working out with like a die hard mindset, I train like this. And I do it like this. And I have to eat like this. And if you say anything else, you're wrong. And I'm going to go back and forth with you. And that in this Instagram thread for about 30 minutes and explain to you why you're wrong. Like, can I think that's how the box, you know, don't be so confined to whatever random as I did you got right now. Because the guy who's convinced is that he's right. Long term. And when I think we all know the deal with that sort of situation there. But I'm trying not to follow the sleep. I don't know if I post through that real. So I, uh, crap. I think it might have been my last bag of steamed broccoli and cauliflower. Well, let's just hope I have one more bag of that, which is seven grams worth of carbs. And reasonably filling is it's like, you know, it's a full bowl of vegetables. That paired with eight ounces of ground turkey, 28 grams of fat-free cheddar cheese, macros being two grams of carbs, nine grams of protein, some sugar-free ketchup, a little bit of salt and pepper. And then I will go down and get my cardio started. So a lot of cardio right now. Cardio is, uh, yeah, crap. Part from eating or apart from sleeping. Cardio is the thing that I'm doing the most. Uh, a little more, a little more to go. But I think that's all I got there. So I'm excited for a chest day tomorrow, a little bit cooler on the free scale. So let's just hope I've got some new veins and striations. I'll see you then.

Alright, I think I've finally figured out why the fact that it gets so dark so early, at least for me in the northeast. It's just felt kind of weird because there's been no snow. Because if you've never lived somewhere where, I mean, all the grass and all the fields and everything you're covered in, and I said a blanket of white snow, it may become a little bit brighter because now instead of just absorbing all the light, the ground kind of reflects it back so it's certain to feel a little more normal. It's like pitch black January at 6 o'clock in the evening. It felt a little funky, kind of was tricking my system. And that's something where it's kind of weird. It has been getting progressively less and less snowy earlier in the year than it used to be. I mean, I'm talking freaking November used to be if winter wondered land back when I was younger. I wonder if any of the alien sightings have anything to do with that. Like they're going to get all the climate control under all the climate change under control. But that's above my pay grade. So sticking within my realm of skills, what's the plan for this chest day? Well, get a crazy chest bump. That's a big one. Don't hurt myself. That's another big one. That's probably equally high up there. I'd say actually not hurting myself is more important at getting a crazy chest bump because I would not trade hurting myself for something like that. So that's up there. So you're not going to see any foreplayed bancher, five-plate Smith or anything nuts. Let's see his weights within reason. But yeah, I've been doing a lot of inkling Smith machine. I don't know. I'll see. I used to have a bit more of a close mind. And I still do tune extend. Like I can tell when I look at my lifting pattern so I'm chest. Usually I'm going to start with heavy pressing first and then move on to whatever kind of, I was the word to think of. Like fly or squeezing bass work like that. Because in my mind, I think I definitely still operate on the idea like okay. I'm doing chest. I better bench heavy. I better bench first when I'm fresh. Which in a bulking context, like in terms of really making sure I've thrashed my chest in a good way. I don't think it's a bad idea. Like what, because half of that makes sense, I do want to load my chest with a lot of mechanical tension when I'm strong, when I'm fresh. But that's not the only way to do it. So now I'm not so troubled by breaking that little pattern that I've built up. And even started to chest day off with flies. But the problem is when you get to a certain size and strength, sometimes starting with the set of regular pecdec, the weight actually is a little bit too light. So there definitely is some value of pre-exhausting before doing more of a light movement. Like let's say there's a preacher girl at your gym where it is, it's a very light machine. Like you could do single arm curls with the full stack. You could do 20 reps easy. You might not want to start with that machine because you're kind of strong on it. But if you save it for a few movements down the line, may your biceps are already tired. Then you can make more use of it. Because that's kind of how I want my workout to look. Set by set by set by set. I want to be getting progressively weaker. I want to be getting an accrual of damage and fatigue. Like my last set in terms of just objective numbers, I do not want to be more intense than the first few on a fresh and strong. Right? Because over the course of the lift, I want to break everything down to the point where like if my first set of chest was 3 plates for 15 on the Smith machine. At the end of the workout, I do not want to be able to do 3 plates of 15. So the nature of getting weaker throughout the lift also probably makes me want to do the heavier harder stuff first and then move on to more. Squeezing isolation, stretch, focus, and stuff towards the end. But definitely do not feel like you're wrong if you want to start a chest off with cable flies and then move on to pressing. And that's got its own benefits because if you do a couple sets of flies first, then you've already got a bit of a chest pump. And on Zaryo, you'll feel your chest more on like a Smith machine bench later. Now you might be a little weaker instead of 2 plates and a 10, you might be doing 1 plate and a 25. But as long as you can still take that set to the legit failure around that 1215ish rep range, even just 8 to 15, like somewhere within there, I think you're good. So what that tells me is that I've got pick of the litter in terms of machines once I go into the gym. So if I let's say I walk in and in my mind I'm like, alright, Incline Smith, I'm ready for it. I'm walking up the steps I'm getting hyped up for it. Or actually I've been known to take the elevator instead of the steps. I see it in my carty if I want to do in carty. But anyway, I'm coming up to the gym, okay, I'm getting Incline Smith in my mind. Incline Smith taking it. Okay, yeah, they just sat down and they're doing swats. Probably not the best etiquette to try to work in with a guy. If he's doing a movement that far removed from what you're doing. So maybe a little new year's gym go or tip. Nothing wrong with asking to work in. Like if you're doing set of pull downs with the same handle, the same everything, you're just changed the weight. Asked somebody how many sets he has left. If he says more than one, just ask to be more careful. But if somebody's doing like, you know, bench or squats or movements where it's going to take a couple of steps to adjust the machine or the height, then you might be better off just either waiting or finding a new machine. That's that's something you can get to use your best lift or discretion. But let's say I'm getting hyped up for Incline Smith. Incline Smith is taking it. I'm going to talk about what do I do? Do something else? Do Campbell flies. You know, the gym is not just your space. You do get to work in with everybody else. So anybody who's got such a close mind about their work out, like, I have to start with Incline Smith. And then I have to do three sets of him or strength press. And then I have to do flat bench. And then I have to like, if you're so rigid in your approach to your workout, that you have to do the exact same thing every time. I mean, it might not be a bad thing. I'm sure that's still a perfectly fine workout. But he just doesn't, you know, take into account that we live in the real freaking world. What happens if a machine was broken? Are you just going to say, oh crap, the Incline Smith machine was broken. My whole chest is ruined. I ask, screw it. I'm going home. No, nobody would do that. Right. So just don't be afraid to improvise on the spot. Let's say you want to do some kind of pressing. The flat bench is taken. Do the machine press. Do a cable press. Do, you know, just do whatever. As long as your total workload of all your sets still gets done, like I've been doing around seven sets per lift. Sometimes eight, sometimes six if I'm really killing it. Then, you know, whether that all came from Incline Smith or Peck Deck or cable flyers or whatever. Like any kind of jumble of mix in between. As long as those working sets were done well, I know I went hard. And I've got a full pump at the end of it. Then, you know, I'm good. And that's a perfect way to build training experience of different movements is just, you know, pick a few. You maybe haven't done for a little while and just make a workout out of that. You're going to get two, uh, two potential responses. I don't know responses, but, um, well, there's two possible states that you're going to be and after you try a workout you've never done before. I'm not even one that you copied from somebody else, but just something you came up with. Like let's do three sets of flies, three sets of, uh, flat bench, three sets of Incline dumbbell. Whatever does matter. Then, at the end of it, you know, taking into account your effort levels, how hard you are really going, how pumped you feel, how, just how everything felt kind of subjectively. And then in your mind, you're going to be able to say, okay, that was actually a pretty good workout. I haven't started to chesty with flies for a little while. I really like that. Pressing after already pre-exhausting with some flies, actually felt really good. Make it squeeze my chest extra hard. Nice. Or you're going to say, okay, I'm in both cases as soon as I get one hard. Or you can say, okay, I win hard and all my sets, like no one set was bad, but, I don't know, I just don't really like starting with the flies. It didn't really click for me. I still get a pump, I still win hard. I definitely am going to feel like a chest tomorrow, but that exercise order in particular, and I definitely love it. And I think that's what people are missing because everybody's eared. People are just so afraid to fail in any capacity. Like that's why I think there's a big barrier to entry, even going to the gym in general, because not everybody is super comfortable with the idea of being in space. You know, you're kind of on display, everybody who's been in the gym, or who is going to be in the gym has been there for a while. They know what they're doing, you don't. It's like, who freaking cares, man, you know? Like the building up that sort of experience for yourself and being able to look over it over time and make adjustments. Those are the lifters who get the furthest. It's the guys where they're always looking for a pre-written answer or a project, you're not a project, yeah, like a routine or a program, like, okay, what's the, I have to do it the perfect way, like what's the best way, what's the way that everybody says is right. I have to do that. I have to, I have to conform to everybody else's idea of what's correct. And it's, dude, cookie cutter mentality, man. You know, like this isn't rocket science here. You can try your own stuff, see what happens? Crossfitters get checked, calisthenics do it's get checked, straight up just body weight like P90X style dudes get checked. As long as your effort is there, the vastness of different kind of styles of work and out that you can do is huge. You can do all sorts of freaking everything. So, you know, even if you've done with that down to just weight based gym workouts, really, as long as your effort is there, and you're making a conscious thought, okay, really, feel whatever muscle you're aiming for at the time, then really, it's just a long game of how long can you keep doing that, and make adjustments towards trying to improve the progress that you're making. You know, so if you're in gain any weight this year and you've been trying to change something up, and odds are, the problem isn't even the training. Usually, it's the calorie side of things, you know, it's not eating enough food. You get a fuel of the freaking machine, but that's, so, hope I had some good ideas in there. I'm kind of going off on a bit of a riff, but either way, I'm excited for today's chest day. So, I think what's, let's just stop, you happen about it, get in there and make it happen. So, first I'm going to do my little shoulder, try set, just kind of warm up on the cables, and then we can jump to a set number one, if whatever that ends up being. All right, so, let's start with some moderately light cable press. One unfortunate thing about this gym is these big kind of cable crossovers. You can only have them at floor height or top height, but little trick you can do, pull the handle out, yay much, and then pin the weight. So, you get this extra, I mean, two feet of extension, because if I'm trying to do a heavy fly, and even this, like, only a hundred pounds, sure, it's not that heavy here in the actual pressing portion, but try to wrench that down into this position. You're just asking for, like, a tweaked elbow or something weird. So, I want to be basically in the starting position, and then unload. But, I think if you're here, slow with a very pronounced squeeze and hold at the bottom, then we can decide how to, how to go forward. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Few more. Nice. Yeah, that's a burning. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Let's move on. All right. So, given that I do not have a spotter in here, I am not going to do incline bench to failure. Norm, I'm going to go that heavy. So, this is only two plates. So, how I'm still going to hit failure is this is going to be a superset. So, I'm going to do a pre-exhaust with this two-play bench. Just enough to feel like I'm approaching chest destruction, and then racket and finish burning out with some kind of faster cable presses over there. So, give a little combo if you don't want to, you know, risk. Or, you know, if you want to do a pre-exhaust with a word to be decapitation or, well, anything bad that could happen on a solo bench. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. One more of those. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Give me seconds to decide what's going to be a good next move. Good lips of our though. The incline converging cable press will be perfect for what I think might actually be the last movement. Let's see how the set feels though. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. One more. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. All right. Let's pose down. Just can put it. All right. So freakyest lighting has been found. I mean, two plates on bench. You know, it's like, what are we doing here? But that's that's where that question is now rhetorical. It has an answer. Stimulating, activating, maintaining. Not trying to break down every fiber of got. And then rebuild them stronger. Really, I'm just trying to make sure that all the ones that have already got to built up. Stay where they are. That's kind of the whole point of this diving phase. I'm not, I'm not getting any new tissue. I'm just losing all the fat tissue that's covering up and concealing all the cool fancy beef underneath. But let's try to do a couple classics here. Oh. You're missing. Oh. Oh. Goodness. Oh. Oh. Oh, man. Stand there doing that most much that really gets me. Oh, yeah. I'm sorry. It's a little bit after hard lift, especially in the deficit. Be careful about a big breath, holy. Try to get every vein and straighten out. Possibly flex. If you had a solid workout, too, and your little carb depleted, but even in the bulk state. There's videos. You can just totally cut off the blood supply to your brain just for long enough that tumble to the freaking floor. So just just be careful about that. I've never seen it happen in person, but I have seen the videos. And it's like even smaller dudes, like 160, just a big breath hole than a. Something to think about. So let's do a little. We'll add a shot as well. Oh. Okay. Well, chest complete. Getting definitely getting somewhere. This is the most graim and separation that I've had in the chest day. This whole diet so far. Now, this isn't the freakyest pump. I've had so far for chest, but I think that's just the nature of getting real steep into a deficit. Because as much as this is a good gauge of like how I'm looking and how I'm progressing. This isn't really how I look like show ready prep later on. There's that's going to be 10 pounds of drops of water, plus an extra like minimum 700 or so grams of carbs to be consumed to carb up beforehand. So right now I'm still totally flat and fully like hydrated. So all this pinchable fat and whatnot. Once this starts to really come off, combined it's like a completely empty stomach, a little more tapered in the waist. We are going to have some freaky shots in the coming weeks. And by coming weeks, I mean, more like six. But these, these are all these different little striations and lines. This is a very good sign. Let me actually do this side one more. Yeah, that's extra cool for me. And that's what the chest pump. So chest doesn't really suffer. The pump inflation effect as bad as, you know, quads and triceps. Because what happens is when I'm fully bolt, I could not care less. Because I'm not seeing my chest fibers or my quads fibers or my triceps striations. Or anything fancy like that. I'm only seeing okay, how physically big and pumped can whatever muscle I'm training get. So I don't know if you need to bulk all pumps are created equal. But dieting down. Not so much like I kind of like the way that my back looks at at least in like more normal poses. Not just like a front lat spread. Unpumped when I'm leaner because I can see more detail more different fibers and striations and whatnot. Because when it gets fully pumped up, that stuff kind of. gets lost in just the inflation of having so much blood in my back. Same thing with triceps and chest a little bit too because like totally unpumped. I would see much more of those little fancy lines and grains and stuff than, you know, fully pumped up state. So all that's to say is there's definitely more value than just pure size when it comes to your look as you get leaner. But I'm going to camp out and see if I can the treadmill for a little while. So for you, let's just get in the car. Just a complete. Okay. I am cold. I am hungry. And I am tired. I'm getting hit with the trifecta right now. But that's her right. That's our right. Nothing cool comes from staying comfortable. So a plan for the post workout meal. A very large egg white omelet with a chop salad mixed in along with some fat free cheddar cheese and some sugar free barbecue sauce on top. That will be perfect paired with a warm bed in some pajamas after a shower. And I am going to be out cold. I can guarantee freaking. So reasonable lift. Honestly. I don't know if I should go there anymore for chest. A little bit sparse. And the cables only being at that top down angle. Doesn't really do it for me as much as having the cables a little bit more of a shoulder height. But still a solid lift. There's a Smith machine in there too, but I didn't really feel comfortable using that bench for any kind of heavy Smith pressing action. Even doing those cable presses on those last few sets on that bench. I was getting a little nervous about the structural rigidity of it, but seemed to hold up well enough. Tomorrow for back. Well, I'll just have some kind of funky back day somewhere. Exactly. And I'm going to be exactly sure. But we'll see if there's any changes in terms of the Christmas tree. Lower back, irrectors, striation type situation during that post down. But yeah, I am definitely ready for freaking bed. I, uh. What the heck was I gonna say? I can tell I'm running low on blood sugar. I'm not talking like, um, what's the word? Hypothmic. What's, I'm not talking hypoglycemic. Like I'm not talking, um, you know, I need something I'm going to pass out and take level. But especially after a long session of cardio after the lift. And I can tell it gives me a little bit of, uh, gives me a little bit of a brain fog until I get back and actually eat something. So we'll see. I, uh, I meal prepped myself a bunch of turkey sandwiches at about. Seven, not about exactly seven carbs of seven grams of carbs each. Seven grams of fat and 24 grams of protein. They grease being some low carb, bread slices, wheat. So, Delhi turkey, but like the most organic one I could kind of get my hands on. Anytime I use the, like, and yeah, sure, whatever. Still Delhi turkey. But anytime I get like an Oscar Meyer, like the ones where it's really kind of thinly folded over, whatever, it kind of makes my stomach feel funky. Really what I should have known was got some, uh, some of the Costco, like massive five pound turkey breast and just cut slices off of it. That probably would have been a little better, but what are you gonna do? And then, um, a little bit of fat free cheese. So mustard, some low fat mayonnaise and then some chopped lettuce on top. All smashed together. And then, uh, when I added the mustard and the turkey, easy enough to account for, because I know I had four packs, 40 grams of protein each pack. And I could kind of divvy it up evenly and know the math. But with the fat free mayonnaise or the low fat mayonnaise, rather. Not totally short, right? And I'm not gonna weigh out every individual, like sandwich is sort of portion of mayo. So what I did there is just zero out of a food scale. Put the tub onto it and then add an evenly sized kind of, you know, doll up on the huge sandwich. Way the low fat mayonnaise again. Now that's a little lighter. And then, okay, I've used 45 grams. Every 15 grams is three and a half grams of fat. That means I just had just about 12 grams of fat across these eight little, like, you know, turkey sandwiches. So do the math, 14 divided by eight, one and a half ish. Actually, no, no, no, no, no. One in the three quarter. I think I just round it up to two. But those are good. It's kind of nice to have those sitting around. The last time I really prepped those was what I was working for the city with Mark. And I'd bring, I'd bring like five of them in a little cooler. And they were just disappear. The low carb bread is, I'd say that's up there as a dieting hack. But you can't really do too much of it. Like if I start slamming a ton of like the low carb tortillas and the, like, the buns and stuff, they have a very high fiber content, like, 10 grams of fiber each slice. So if you eat like, you know, 10 slices of them. You just had 100 grams of fiber. And it's a little bit beyond like your necessary amount. And it kind of makes you feel a little like, just bloated, the stomach. So not like full of food in a good way. Kind of just like, just a little bit uncomfortable. So what I've really been trying to do is make sure that my meals are extra full of fluff food. I steamed vegetables, cauliflower, rice, things like that, where it takes up some space. And I'm actually like feeling like a beating a lot of food. But really, it's only eight grams worth of carbs. The broccoli says two grams of protein per serving. Not sure I'm so sure about that. Definitely not two grams of a complete, you know, amino acid array of protein. But it's still something to take into account. So that's the plan for the post-work ad meal. And I am ready to hit the sack. So I don't think I have any any other deep words of wisdom apart from the fact that I hope that you start doing your cardio this year. And if you're one of the guys who every time I say that, you don't need to listen because you're already doing your cardio. I am envious. I am envious of you. So I think that's how I get. I will see you for what I hope to be. My freaky is back day yet tomorrow.

So no training today. No weight-based training for me today. I think a rest day might be an order. But...not exactly. Does it, uh... Does it still count as a rest day if you do a substantial amount of cardio? Well there's no weight-based, you know, central nervous system stressing stimulus. So I would say so. So I already finished the morning cardio, which is more like a 10, six or so hours. The past it's now four-ish. It's gonna be a little while before I actually get there. That's about right. So my cardio of choice has been either the seated bike or just the incline treadmill. Usually a bit of a combination of the two, where I'll do like 30 minutes on the bike, followed by 30 minutes on the treadmill. If I feel like it, like if I can tell my quasi starting to get a little extra fatigued from the bike, then I'll switch and do 30 on the treadmill to finish. But, you know, if the bike's cruising, just sit there for the hour. It's definitely not the easiest thing in the world though, because it's not really exciting. It takes a while. It's kind of just generally difficult. Like not insanely difficult. Like one rep max, but it's like, you know, you just tire on yourself out. You're breathing heavy or heart rate elevated. But it's not that bad. So that's kind of, that's usually how I think of it. And by the time I get my music plan, especially if when I shuffle it, there's like a pretty solid stream of good songs. And then I'm just sitting, you know, playing the classroom, or something like my phone, or like watching a movie, or whatever. The time passes by pretty quick. Like it's not a, you sort of get yourself into a cell. And honestly, I think that this sort of stint of like extra crazy long cardio for me is going to be good in the long run, because now instead of doing, you know, an hour cardio session in the morning, then an hour cardio session, the evening, once I'm done dieting, I go back to my regular 30 minutes every morning. It's going to feel like freaking heaven. I don't know what I'm going to do with myself with all that extra time. But you definitely don't have to do hours upon hours of cardio to get the benefits. But I do think that there's a pretty solid threshold that lies around that 30 minutes per day mark. And some guys are going to say, you know, you should get 150 minutes per week of elevated heart rate, stage two, something or other cardio. Usually I just think about it like, and because I'm not aiming for a specific heart rate or anything, I kind of just set it at a difficulty, which is doable for me. But it's pretty consistent where usually it ends up being about 300 calories per 30 minutes that the machine says, which honestly isn't really an awesome way to go about it. Like every time I bring up the cardio, just some guys still ask me if I'm like deducting the amount of calories I've burned from the cardio from my daily calories that I'm eating. Like, okay, if you just did 300 calories of cardio, do you now eat 300 more calories of food? Not, it just seems kind of rude to mention, you know? Like, if your cardio is extra, then I guess you might have something, there might be something to that. But for me, at least, I consider my daily activities of the cardio sessions in the lift or now the cardio session, the lift and the cardio session after not today of course, we're just doing double the cardio. But that's just sort of the day. That's like just what I do. And then I'm just adjusting my calorie intake slowly over time. You know, trying to really balance the two out. I think you kind of get lost in the, you know, like the complications of it. It's like, okay, I crap. I accidentally ate an extra hundred calories because I had some, I had some M&M's that were sent out of bowl on the table. All right, the better doing extra hundred calories of cardio, it's, it's not a rabbit hole. I really catch myself going down. But I do think you're really missing out. If you're not at least adding, even like, just try 15 minutes after you next lift. Like, let's see how to chest-day. It was pretty good. You're already sweating. You're already already took your free workout to get some caffeine in your system. Just pop a squat and see the bike. Now, set it to difficulty eight. Start repenet and just see what happens. That's, that's kind of as easy as you can get into it and then go from there. But I mean, look, how long are you spending just playing around in your phone anyway? This is probably my greatest argument of point for why you guys should begin your cardio going because, I mean, pull it up, man. Open your settings, open your screen time. How many hours of Instagram, TikTok, YouTube have been accumulated over just today? And today isn't even over, like, I guess it depends when you're watching this. But either way, look, I know there's a couple hours there. There might even be a lot of hours there. You know, and I'm not here to pass any judgment, I'm guilty as well. I've got some greasiest phone hours. But why not make use of some of that by spending that time instead of just completely passively, just make it a little bit more active by petling around. So, maybe make a trip to the gym, or I would recommend looking around, honestly, right now, might not be the best time that demand might be a little higher on like all the Facebook market plays ads for all the, like, at home cardio equipment and see the bikes and treadmills because it's new years kind of hype motivational season or whatever. But, you know, keep an eye out. I'd say at least one in five American homes have a piece of cardio equipment in them. Now, I'd say much smaller percentage have cardio equipment that actually gets used. But, they're wrapped. And that does save you an extra drive to the gym. Like, I, you know, the reason I'm going to the gym for this cardio and set is just doing that. My apartment gym is I want to go in the sauna afterward. And that apartment gym does not have a sauna. It's called as a sea of bike. So, that's going to be my plan for this, this day is kind of, uh, I don't even think I can really call it a rest day. I still will, but it's really just a cardio day. It's a better, uh, probably a better representation. But, basically what I'm trying to say is my next few steps are an hour of cardio, either all on the, uh, on a sea of bike or a mix of half bike, half treadmill. I'll have to see you kind of how I feel. Followed by 15 minutes in the sauna, followed by coming home, and then taking an episode's salt bath. Get some of that, uh, magnesium, magnesium, what? What is that? Yep. I can't remember. Well, either way, you know, kind of a classic little recovery mix, plus it doesn't like a freaking, you know, hot bath every now and again. But for me, let's go get the cardio started. And then for you, I think we'll just jump straight back to the car. A lot of, uh, but a car, it's talking for this lift, if that, uh, is that what you're going? All right. It might not exactly be the best angle. I tried to set it to manual focus, so I could see the timer like, you know, tick up to the hour mark and like, you know, speed it up at the cool looking kind of time lapse. But there's really not much to see. Kind of just sit down and Blake clash Royale. I, um, I'd say my win right tonight was maybe, uh, it was probably 50, 50. I just broke into the 7,000 trophy range, so it's like, you know, I'll get on, I'll go on a run, I'll get up to like, 7,200 and then three losses in a row, back to, back to 71. Okay, back to 72. Oh, back to 7,000. So, you know, but I don't really get too pressed about it. I, uh, when I was younger, I'd be playing clash, and I'd actually, like, I'd actually get upset when they're in e-mode at on me. But now it really just is a good way to pass the time. And I feel like I get into a little bit of a locked-in stay, you know, it's like you feel pretty good when you predict that the dude is going to fireball your minion hoard and you pre-place a monk and you have him do the sort of like defensive move and then you send it back. Yeah, that, that definitely gets you going. But, yeah, I mean, that was like, that hour past like nothing. Now, I kind of put myself into a little bit of a Zen state by just spamming, uh, just spam and clash royal games. But I don't think that, uh, you know, do whatever. I'm sure everybody probably has a certain activity that would kind of get their time passing extra quick. I was, uh, one of my buddies he always tells me that he's still in, because he's on the hour and a half-ground of cardio too. He's trying to trim down. And he's telling me what it gets him going is just scrolling through like Twitter conspiracy theory threads into like the craziest like disclose military, style document, whatever kind of stuff. And it's like he can just get in, get yourself into a rabbit hole like that. And that gets you going. And then the time is going to pass like nothing. Like I really do think that's a pretty good, uh, like I'm bringing you that again, that argument about how much time are you spending on your phone doing nothing anyway. And I'm not, I'm not saying like why fuck you on your phone all the time. Put that, no, I'm saying you're all like we're already sitting around playing on a phone anyway. So to add the constructive use of the time with the cardio and just literally be doing the exact same thing, it's a pretty good boost. And you're, you could still spend an hour just scrolling Instagram. But at the end of it, you get to say, hey, I did my cardio or even just 30 minutes of cardio. I'm I'm saying now, or just because I'm crazy. Like he just 30 minutes, like, oh, 30 minutes over, leave. It's really not the hardest thing in the world. It's definitely more difficult than just sitting on the couch chilling. But it's not the hardest thing in the world. Like I was thinking about that when I was sitting there, like the cardio really has zero barrier to entry. There is no skill requirement. There is no, uh, like history of training requirement. Anybody at any level could set the cardio to like a moderate difficulty for them. You know, sit there, read their heart rate, get up to like 1, 20, 1, 30 years, have them. And just, you know, chilling break is what? Like, do not underestimate the power of just adding that. Like, if you took a guy who didn't change anything about his diet, he changed nothing about his sleep routine and his hydration. Obviously improving all those things would improve the results. But let's just say that everything else stay the same. And then you change the variable of you made him do 30 minutes on the seated bike every morning. Burn 300 calories. Not the craziest thing in the world. The guy who would start getting freaking leaner, you know, like he wouldn't be shredded in two months. But he probably started losing, you know, whatever amount of, uh, I mean, potentially even like a freaking, uh, hmm. Oh, goodness. Like a freaking pound a week, you know, changing nothing else. And odds are, if you're started doing your cardio, you know, well, let's, let's, let's not even say daily. Let's just say you start doing your cardio three times a week. You probably will start caring about your diet and your hydration. You're resting your recovery and everything else. Like, as much as, I'm given all this like, consistency advice and everything else about like the vector of just muscle growth and performance base training. Like, okay, I want to build my arms as big as I can get them. I want to build my back as why does I can, I want my legs as thick as they can be. I want to train like this. I want to do my cardio like this. I want to track every macro. Like, that's what it takes. Right. That of course, all those things piled up together is going to form an awesome support structure for you to make badass gains. But there's a very large, if not complete overlap of the working out for just, you know, the vein motivation of getting more muscles, it's just also freaking good for you, man. Right. I mean, somebody who's got a solid sleep routine because they care about their recovery, and they want to work out hard. They're drinking more than enough fluids to stay totally hydrated. They're reading a reasonably balanced meal, more than enough protein, reasonable carbs, sources, nothing crazy on the fat side. Like, they're not getting McDonald's every freaking meal. You know, it's not even talking like, well, you can, you can supply some in. But what I'm saying is somebody who has an active routine like that in the bodybuilding side of things, like they're just trying to be like a bigger lifter. They're just going to feel better in general. Like, doing your cardio, training, having a certain sort of buff stats in terms of your strength, it just makes daily life like a little easier, you know? And especially for anybody a little bit on my older side of the demographics, shouldn't it? We're all up against time. I mean, don't forget, it's, you know, those old heads used to be 20 year old, spray young ones, freaking running around. Like, they've got, uh, you've got all the time in the world, and then dude, it can get tricky to pick up a 40 pound luggage bag and put it overhead on the plane. And that is a pretty serious motivator, I feel where if you've got anybody a little older in your family, you know, you're living with, you've seen enough, bring them to the gym with you or try to schedule it so that you guys go at the same time. You don't have to do the same stuff, but having some weight-based exposure, I mean, the lifting for me is never going to stop. Be it, uh, I mean, I'm going to like slow down in terms of size, eventually just downsize to a regular, even out of regular, dude, probably always be above, uh, above baseline for sure. But the point isn't going to be complete mass in the long run. Eventually, you just got to work at, you know, keep yourself moving and healthy. So we've all seen the, um, um, if you haven't, then there's these really compelling MRI scans, basically just like a visual slice of, you know, some 65, some 70-year-old legs, and it shows you like their outer sort of skin layer, their inner, what their femur, their thigh bone right in the middle, and then you've got a big mass of muscle and a certain amount of body fat. And the guys who worked out and had weight-based exposure, even get into their freaking 70s, this whole chunk of everything was basically all muscle. You know, they were a little bit leaner, of course, too, but if you keep that exercise up, then that's just going to be the case. And then the ones who weren't working out, it was a pretty serious discrepancy, a body fat, to actual muscle and then to bone. The weights are freaking important. So, uh, I was about to say at any age you should be, you know, rocking around in the weight room. Maybe not if you're like 10, you know, there's definitely an age where you just focus on, you know, playing games and sports or whatever else. You don't have to start slamming the gym for a little while. And that's, uh, not trying to crush anybody's dreams if you get a little brother who's got like an Arnold post-traum of the wall and he's like, that's going to be me right there. You got some time. You know, you definitely have some time. You don't have to start that early. I'd say mid, uh, so that's a go off on a totally different tangent. But when's it good time to start working out? Wait to based like physical style training? I don't. I'm not your dad. Maybe, uh, because you know, when it's, you know, a stunt your growth, you know, like if somebody tried, uh, if somebody started like really doing crazy, serious power lifting style workouts when they're like, you know, 10 years older something that might mess with you. Same, uh, same thing with like the gymnastics, too. I don't know why I was, uh, I don't know why I started thinking about that. But either way, further, most part, everybody should be working out. Now, do you have to take it this seriously as, you know, all the top kind of bodybuilder guys? No. Not working out doesn't have to be your thing, but it definitely should be one of your things, you know. You don't have to be a die hard, freaking gym rat, to enjoy getting an occasional pump and elevating your heart rate on a cardio machine at least a couple of times a week. Because it really will just do you good. And we all know this, too. Like the basics of working out, really the basics of anything. Everybody knows, like how do you, how do you get bigger? Well, well, you lift weights. Well, should you lift them harder? Should you just do like a a couple easy sets? Now, you should probably push yourself pretty hard if you aren't real results. We all know it. It's just that it's like the fact of nature. We all know this. All right. Well, let's say you want to get a little leaner. You want to look like you're in shape, too. You're not even for a mind-backer build. You're aiming for more of like, uh, you know, more of a sprig, kind of, hybrid athlete. Like you're one of the guys who wants to be able to say he can run a form in a mile and squat for 15. All right. Well, you might be a little on the softer side. Maybe up upwards of the 20% body fat range. You might have a couple of forearm veins, but abs, you get some, you get some stuff to work on. How are you going to get rid of it? Well, I'll probably stop you so much, you know, treats and sweetened stuff, starting a little bit more, less sugary foods, just eggs and proteins and broccoli and cauliflower and rice and stuff, you know, keep it a little more simple. Yeah, that shit would work, man. We all know the basics and same thing with the cardio. What's, uh, how do you do your cardio? You know, you don't have to put a big, uh, you don't have to put a sweat suit on with a towel or an egg and throwing your converse like rocky running up the steps in, crap. Is it Philadelphia? Is it Pennsylvania? I feel like it's filling. Crap. Fake rocky fan. I don't even remember. Well, you do it. You don't have to do that. Roll up onto any cardio machine or just, you know, go for like a three mile is walk. That's going to count, too. You know, or, you know, hit your steps. Some guys really love talking about getting your steps and even like pretty, pretty hard core, you know, bodybuilder dudes who have really good control over their cardio or over their, uh, like over their body fat percentage. These guys are always preaching just, you know, make sure I hit my 20th something or 15, thousand steps per day. I don't really know how many. Like, yeah, it's, we all know the basics. So the information is all there, especially with all these YouTube videos. Like, I don't, um, I like to think I'm putting out some good advice relative to all sorts of everything, like if I'm talking about the cardio, cover the screens so you don't have to watch the time so that it goes by faster. I didn't do that today because I didn't have, um, I didn't have like a clipboard or anything in there, but I probably should have, I just wanted to see it like tick on the video. And then, you know, just ease into it. Like, that's sort of stuff. But like, I'm not making, these aren't like tutorials, but there's a ton of like instructional style videos really simply laid out like infographics, whiteboard style stuff. Like, okay, how many times should you work out per week? How many minutes of cardio should you do per day? What even is muscle growth? Like, how do you explain? Like, all the videos where it's like, how does training grow muscle? Like, there is such a fast amount of information out there that if you just spent like 30 or so minutes every couple of days and watched a few of those videos actively, like you didn't just hit play and then go do the dishes or something like you're really watching it. You can get, I'd say, what, maybe 70% of the knowledge necessary to really get into work now. And that other 30% isn't even like info you can really read. It's just stuff that you sort of get a grasp of by doing it. So, as much as, uh, as much as it's going to make you feel better. It's going to try to watch a bunch of videos and instructional whatever is on like, okay, how do I do this? What should I do this? And this, your best bet is really just jumping with both feet and try to get after, you know, like, what are you supposed to do? Watch a million, like, to how to do an R-morecat videos and then just never do one or say, okay, whatever, let's go try this. You know, follow your older brother to the gym, asking what to do, go for it. It's, uh, if you get to start somewhere, I mean, that's sort of the, that's sort of something that takes a little bit of probably a little bit of humbleness to be able to say, but it's like, I definitely don't know everything about my training. My training routine is not perfect. I'm trying to, like, constantly improve and make little adjustments every, uh, like, every so often and improve it over time. But especially in the beginning, I mean, I was doing, I was doing, I was doing a way too much. No cardio, but also, it wasn't really, uh, I wasn't really in dire need of cardio in the beginning of my work now because I was also doing diving at the time too. So I'd have a whole diving practice and then I would do my workout after or out of workout and then so I was getting some extra curricular activities going on, swimming around like that. So I think it was hitting my cardio. Like, if you play sports or something, you play soccer and you're working out, that's going to like that counts as a cardio for sure. You're good. But it's what I'm, uh, what I'm getting at is, you're just not going to know everything in the beginning. And nobody who starts anything does, it's something that you just build and learn and improve and gain experience from over time. And then before you know it, you know, you can be talking to somebody you've never met before at the gym who's like, for whatever reason you wanted to ask him something about this. And then now, like, he's one of your best friends and the only reason was because you're like, huh, never seen somebody do a try-sept extension where they put de-handles up to the grooves of the easy bar. That's kind of interesting. I'm doing try-septs. Hey, can I work in with you? Did you come up with that, sir? Nice. Awesome freaking story. That sort of stuff is sweet. But all that's to say is like, as much preparation as you can try to do, nothing's going to be just going for it. You know, so try to have a little bit of a little bit of disconnect from any potential negative thoughts. So like, okay, what, well, oh, they're going to know I'm up again. I've never worked out before. Don't even treat it sweat. There's, uh, any kind of barrier to entry or stigma about like, you're a beginner. Like, really? You know, getting people are on the hunt for the beginner lifter, not even. I say, if you've got that plan of fitness membership tab open or if you know somebody who does enter your freaking credit card info ASAP or be a little sneaky with it with the plan of fitness at least, you can use like a fake email and it'll give you like a free day pass. I'm, you know, maybe don't do that every day. They might start to catch onto you. But it's like, okay, I want to try it. I want to go to the plan of fitness next to my, you know, in my city or whatever. Plan of fitness day pass. I think you just enter the location and then you can put your email into it. Bo me a little QR code. You just walk in like nothing. Be, and that could be day one. That could be day one for millions. But who's to say? Either way, I'm sweaty. I didn't end up doing the sauna because I forgot that closed early. So I'll still go home. Run a bath, finish Scarface. Have a postwork at meal of some ground beef with some sugar-free barbecue sauce and then try to go to bed early. I've been doing the melatonin again. I get these 12-milligrams, strawberry, chewables, fast acting. I, yeah, I'm definitely sleeping a little easier now. I'm having a crazy dreams though, like real, real extra vivid. I feel like I'm going to get a couple of melatonins causing that. But either way, good day of cardio. So that will mean back days actually tomorrow. Yeah, there we go. So I guess I'll see you for what I hope to be a grainy, viny, in sayiny, back day on that day, 92 of this dieting phase. Finally, ask the three month mark. But I will see them.

I have a particular item that I need to get into my inventory and that's a set of winter gloves, which I currently do not have going gloveless and sucks, especially walking the trash out. I feel like my fingers are going to fall off, but they're getting cold. They're getting cold, you gotta keep your outer extremities insulated. But apart from that, I can handle a little chilliness. This is, uh, at least feels more festive when there's snow on the ground. When it's just cold and gray, that can suck. But if it's cold and snowy, it's a little more jolly, you know. But either way, playing for tonight's lift back, I'm excited for it. Not because I'm going to somehow have the most intense set in the world that I've ever done, or I'm going to be the most physically pumped I've ever been. But I'm just going to take in one more step towards the goals I'm trying to achieve, plus every lift, I'm a little bit leaner than I was the last time. So I'm kind of excited to see how my back is going to look today. But I'm doing a full-dave eating as well. So that's, I'll do a little double upload for the day that this video gets out. I'm trying to make it a little more concise to sometimes I let the full-dave eating go on for like two hours. It's too long, at least, you know, for everybody. So I'll try to limit that to like 25 minutes or something. But yeah, so I'll play it for back after having eaten about 100 grams of protein, 30 something in it's your carbs and only like 10 or 15 of fats. Well, do some pullovers, do some rows, do some pull downs, and then before I know it, my back's going to be fully pumped. So I get this comment reasonably frequently enough that it actually warrants attention. How should my training change if I'm trying to bulk up versus when I'm trying to cut down? And I think the reason that that even becomes a question is, there's a lot of the meta of working out or like descriptive terms of what working out even is, is very like convoluted and strange to anybody who's not really into it. Because everybody's going to say like, oh, you do crunches and it burns the body fat on your abs or you do these movements so that you look toned. Oh, I don't want that blocky look. I want to look more like, you know, this that or the other. Like it's it's just kind of a weird way to think about it. But if you boil it down, you know, how I feel about the matter and not how I feel but what I think the situation is based on everything I know is the whole point of the workout, be it bulking up or cutting down is purely to stimulate whatever muscle you're hitting. Usually a good rule of thumb is hit every muscle group twice per week. Right now I've been on a kick of doing everything twice every eight days because I do legs just back arms and then legs again. So every four days I hit everything. So twice every eight days just about twice a week. But so stimulate whatever muscle you're hitting twice a week. As hard as you can given your current state, you know. So if I'm only eating a freaking hundred grams of carbs every day and I'm not completely full of everything else in my recovery is a little bit inhibited then I might end up toning back on the volume. But not even like actively, I'm simply going to be like fatigued and like feel subjectively done with the workout earlier because I don't have the same endurance that I do when I'm eating like ten times as many carbs and like three times as many fats as I am. You know, when I've got more energy in my system. So it's like I'm doing as many sets as necessary to reach a state of fully pumped and fully stimulated slash fatigued. So what changes? I'm not going to go as heavy of course but that's just common sense, you know, lift within weights that are within reason for your current state. So if I'm fully bulked extra big extra strong, I might be more inclined to throw the stack around a more movements because that's going to feel like a reasonable working weight. And then in terms of muscular growth, I'm definitely trying to leverage progressive overload to get bigger and stronger throughout a bulking phase. But you know, guiding down, I don't want to use weights that might be a little more within reason that I can feel obviously not hurt myself doing and then, you know, still finish with a good pump and keep my effort level pretty high. I mean, I'm not going to sit here and do 30 sets of like junk volume, you know, the approaches basically the same. But there are little details. So if you're dieting down, maybe don't lift the most weight you've ever done on incline bench. Maybe don't try to do like a million sets of extra kind of volume. But the same thing to be said about bulking up, you know, what I'm really concerned with is making sure my efforts there. My pump is solid and then really staying hipes and frigging an opponent. We're not even motivated just excited about the lift. But that's true on any given day during any bulking, maintaining or dieting phase. You know, so when I talk about like really making sure I get extra pumps, that's not only my actions in the gym. I'm talking about how to the gym at home. You know, if I didn't drink as much water as I did today, if I didn't have as many electrolytes as I did or get as much rest as I did, then my pump in the gym is going to suffer. So it's not like physically getting pumped is the cause of stimulus and this causing your muscles to grow. But if you had a really wild pump, odds are everything was in order for you to have a good lift that's going to result in more progress. You know, so if you were as well hydrated as you've ever been, as well rest it as you've ever been and you have a pretty solid workout, you know, a whole new crowd, everything's clicking. Yeah, that shouldn't be a surprise, you know. So that's where the guys who put a bit more effort into their out of gym activities and sort of schedule and make sure that things kind of align, then I mean, who's going to have a better lift, the guy who drank four liters of water so far today, got eight hours of sleep and, you know, is ready and feels good. Or the guy who got four hours of sleep, drink maybe a liter of water, maybe in his overall just slightly dehydrated, totally didn't have any extra electrolytes. And then his, you know, feeling a little groggy for the lift, right? Sure, you take your pre-work out, whatever you get a bit more, you're going to like, temporary energy. But I think we know the answer to who's going to get better results in the long run. So, don't just think that the gym is where all the effort is made, right? Outside of the gym, you got to have that support structure so that when you're actually roll up, you don't feel like shit and you actually, you know, are excited to do what you're there for. Working out sucks, if it feels like work, if you think enough sleep, if you're not well hydrated, you're just overall like in a state of fatigue and stress, then yeah, I mean, what are the odds that you're going to keep working out every day, you know, doing anything pretty low. But if you get everything else in order and you just feel better in general, then, you know, pushing yourself hard in the gym will feel good. So, it's not necessarily a question of a community. How I am to do hyped and locking, how I get it's like dude, go to bed earlier. That's going to boost your freaking lift progress more than any TikTok edit ever could. So, that's a, that's a, that's a talk for me there. Pull down, pull over, and rose, and then within an hour or so from right now, Ish, give her take to putting on traffic. I'm sure I'm going to be looking at a rather freaky back pump in the mirror. So, how about we, how about we just get that started? I have a plan. I actually have formulated a little bit of a plan for this lift. Because there's a seat at the row right here, but it's one of the ones, oh, actually what I'm even doing, let's just point out it. It's one of the ones that's like that handle is very far away from where I would usually be. I want to actually do in the reps, but I put that yoga pad on to it. So, I can kind of like push against my shins instead of my feet, because for me to load up a reasonable amount of weight, and then basically hunch away over here, pull it all the way back, and then starting in the reps are just kind of sucks. So, you said, don't use this row, but the yoga pad is my freaky and savior. But I don't want to go too heavy, right? So, I'm going to save this as more of a lighter squeezing movement for later, and start with some lat pre-exhaustion. So, I think I might sort of work my way up from lower lats starting here with the pullovers, up to mid back, and then kind of bounce around as such. But let's just get set number one moving. And these are going to be alternating 10, 10, 10, 10, 10, and so I'm totally burnt down. Oh, 10 reps might have been a little ambitious. That's good though. Let's run that back at least one more time. Yes, 10. Do not do it. Oh my gosh. Yeah, these are good. Definitely prefer the single arm pull over to double arm at once. I thought I could really just dig deeper during one at a time. But I think that's enough here. Let's move on. Let's do one set of shrugs before I move on to anything upper back focused. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Yeah. No. No. Okay. Woo. This is very manageable weight. Only 200 something pounds. Alright. No. No. No. No. Hmm. Hmm. No. No. No. No. No. No. Too heavy. Good set. Let me drop the weight. I only need one 50. Yeah. What am I doing to our two 10? Okay. Let's do some pull-outs. Stand or straight bar. So we got 210 big ones on the side. Okay. Okay. Let's do some pull-outs. Stand or straight bar. So we got 210 big ones on the stack. This will be a reasonably hefty set. But not beyond reason. This is probably upper-ish line of the amount of weight I'd want to use. But I totally got 10 good ones and at least a couple of nasty impartials. Nasty in a good way. If I can pair with a good song. Okay. Okay. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Okay. I think I'm ready for the last superset. Then back will be done. So I'll pre-exas with some neutral grip pull-ups. Just like eight or something as many as I can do just to burn out. And then pop a squad here with these two de-handles. And do some very squeeze-focused rows. And this combination of some lat-work and some upper-back work is especially like tandem back-to-back. Or I guess we have back-to-back. And it always doesn't mean good to finish off these back days. All right, you're mine. Okay. Nice. Okay. Let's get it. Oh, come on. Oh, my god. Oh, my god. Oh, okay. Back complete. Now time for some judgment underneath some harsh top-down lighting. All right. So that was, how many says was that? Pull over, pull over, shrug, row, pull down, pull down, pull down, and then superset it in. Eight sets. That's kind of about right. I've been bouncing around the eights to, uh, the sort of seven-eightish. I feel like it's been a while since the nine set lift. Oh, is it? That's right through some of these guys. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Barely even flexing, like, only using enough back to hold my torso up from lean and forward. That is getting to be some pretty serious, lat trap. Let's just do the pose and set it talking about. Oh, yeah. Oh, my goodness. That's a good one. We are definitely getting somewhere there. And cheese. I think this might actually be the leanest my back has ever been. Maybe leanest and biggest. Just front side-wise. I feel like I've had a leaner torso before and midsection. But this is like, I'll go on record. I think this is the freakiest my back has ever looked. You little, uh, little extra zoom here. Do one more of those little Christmas tree flexes. Oh, well, it would seem that the cardio is paying off. Now it's a slow process, but definitely appears to be working. Let's, uh, give it a little art action in here too. Oh, oh, I'm more. Oh, my gosh. So, I think that's all I got for freaking back pumped to S.H.I.T. I'm feeling carb depleted. And for you, I'm getting freaking jealous of you guys. Because after these lifts, you just get to jump straight to the car. I've still got 60 minutes of pedaling and treadmill activities to get done. But that's just the situation at hand. So, I got to really lock it in for these last month and a half or so. Because the dieting is a progressively more intense endeavor. But it also gives you like, what's the word I'm thinking of? Like, what's the opposite of diminishing returns? Because every pound of fat that you lose in a row, each pound turns into more of a percentage change of your leanness. So, if you take a guy who's 100 pounds of fat overweight, have him lose one pound, it's only made a 1% change in his visual leanness. But you take a guy who's got a 10 pounds of spare body fat. Take off one pound. Now he's 10% leaner. The problem is those last few pounds get trickier and trickier to lose. So, definitely not a passive activity. But I'll see you in the car. I'd say wish me luck, but it's not really a luck type situation. Just, well, I'll try to enjoy it as much as I can. I'd tell you what, hindsight is 2020. I should have brought a spare shirt. Because now this jacket is going to have to be laundered. Because that blue t-shirt I've got underneath, it is drenched. It is freaking drenched. Which is kind of weird, because like, some days I'll be extra sweaty from the cardio. And then other days not so much. Not exactly sure what changes. I mean, I feel like I come into each cardio session pretty well hydrated. So, I don't know. Maybe the fact that I did it back tonight really got my core temperature going crazy. Well, you're gonna hit me? Yeah. So, you know, who's to say? But either way, this morning I was, I might have bundled up a little bit too much. I did, was I do a double sweatpants or just single? No, I don't remember. Well, whether it was double or single, I did a sweater and a sweatshirt on the seated bike. And I, and 40 minutes seated bike, 20 minutes on the treadmill. And I could tell that was really starting to heat me up. The point where I could, I thought I might have been a little bit too much. But it feels good to get nice and sweaty like that. So, maybe tomorrow morning I'll do shorts and like a light nylon shirt. Be a little bit more, you know, air cooled. But, either way, I've been working my way through all the old gangster movies. Scarface and the good fellows and what else? You guys are good for all of us. The godfather. I started the godfather too, but I watched that like immediately after the godfather. I might have been a little bit godfather down, but I need some new shows to watch. Part of me is thinking that I should watch lost. My sister and my dad watched that back when back when she was on high school and they were younger. And I would kind of tune in like every so often and see how it was going. Some of the, I keep seeing some clips. Honestly, the shows that I pick, I'm really subject to the freaking hive mind. Because if I saw a bunch of TikTok edits talking about Dexter and then to maybe watch Dexter. And then I saw a bunch of suits at it and maybe watch suits. Yeah, I'm really, really a freaking deer in the machine there. But I am trying to make use of the amount of cardio I'm doing by consuming some more long, form media. Instead of just sitting in the scroller. Oh, which I will reiterate. The already open your settings, open your screen time. I'm not here to judge how many hours you've spent on Instagram, TikTok and YouTube collectively. But I will be a bit of an advocate that you could totally spend 30 minutes out of that time period. Doing the exact same thing, watching the same videos, just doing the same stuff, whilst getting a little bit of extra cardio. And it's definitely not, it's not the easiest thing in the world, but it's not that hard either. It's really just a, you gotta do it in type situation. But that was a good back day. Everything is really clicking. That, that seated row. And I think that it was, it's just, it's like a weird height. I don't really like seated rows at that angle. I kind of like the more classic like playing a fitness scene. Looking lower foot pad with the round dimples on it or whatever. That feels a little better. But those pull down's felt really good. The pullovers, I was really feeling part of me thinks I might, I might even make a little bit of a trip back to American barbell for my, for my next back day and do some pullover machines. Because a good pullover machine. Yeah, it's definitely a step above the single arm, the cable pullovers. The single arm cable pullovers are good. Like I like it, but a good pullover machine. It's kind of hard to compare. There was, I had a good one at my school's gym. I would, I'd always be doing some kind of self, not self, but that's, gets some assisted reps going over there. But, yeah, pullovers and the overhead trisept extension. Those are rare. Those are hard to come by. And of course, they're the machines that like feel the best for their respective muscle groups. But it's not always about the machines, you know, it's like whatever. I mean, I think I went maybe like eight months or so, peak COVID, just in the basement gym doing lifts, where I'll had was the dumbbells to 50. And I say, all I had, like, I was really stocked. I'm, I'm extra spoiled because my dad had some weight sets already. All I had to do was get, get like a $200 Amazon rack and kind of clean up the space. But dumbbells up to 50s, plus like a 65 pound set of the ones that screw together. 300 pounds of weight in the barbell. And then a Jerry Riggs a cable pull down. So I could try separate stations. Yeah. And then, yeah. That was some very interesting quad, pretty interesting leg training back then. I didn't really know what I was doing with the squat to get. That was like year two, issue year three. I don't know, I think year two, I'm not really worried about. So I would, I would take these like elastic belts like these nylon kind of braided, like just belts for your pants. And what I would do is I'd set the bench on an incline. Maybe 15 degrees, like the lowest incline it could do. And how would tie, I think I could do about a 30 pound dumbbell. I would tie a 30 pound dumbbell to my foot. And I would do just sets of leg extensions like that. Not a lot of stretch, but a really good squeeze on top. I see a lot of that at a, you know, like all the home gym videos. Sometimes they talk about the ankle attachment. Where it's this big plastic, sort of thing where you can attach it dumbbell to your foot like that. And honestly, it worked out pretty well. And then for hamstrings what I would do is I tie the elastic band to the, like, to my bed, because the bed was just like a wooden frame with these metal posts to hold it up. And I would just do leg curls, single leg with an elastic band. And I worked well enough, I mean given, I don't really have any other option. And we're free in perfect. I have some pretty free leg pumps back there. But all that's to say is, you know, just make use of what you got. And if you want it, like if you want to have good work, I can make it happen. I mean, I, I've gone on records saying this a couple times. There is not many spaces that you could put me in, where I couldn't within at least like a minute or two, come up with a way to get a pump in some way or another. Be it chest legs, hamstring biceps arms or whatever. I mean, you give me a gallon jug of milk. Maybe gallon jug of water, I don't want to froth up. But I can leave milk out of the fridge for that long. But let's say you give me gallon of water. I get an arm day. I get it. The bad ass arm day was just going to gallon the water for sure. Shoulders easy, just lateral raises. Chest would be a little trickier. You'd have to do some kind of funky, like, drag curls. I just need to see you where. There are types of situations, but, yeah, that's, I think that's a good quality for a lift or to have. But hopefully enough when I can have anything like that, any time soon. I do get a little nervous here in all these rumors about the, like, Chinese, whatever sort of virus, getting, whatever. But, we'll be right. Oh, 12 activity going on over there. Just mind your business, throw it. So, plan for tonight. I've got a pretty substantial amount of food. I still get to eat, which is very nice. I was very good about my diet today in terms of saving calories for later. So, now I get to have a pretty substantial postwork at meal and a pretty decently sized meal for right before bed. But, there's, there's like a balance that you have to have because if you wait too long to eat your first meal, like, if you try to just fast until four o'clock, then odds are you're going to push your hunger into this realm of, like, in sensibility. And then you're just going to want to eat everything in the same. You'll like eat a thousand calories in a few minutes and you'll still want to eat more. So, I'm kind of working on this balancing act of like, okay. I want to save my food for later in the day. But, I've got to eat something first so that I'm not totally dying after my workout or before I go to bed. Because, I can have, I mean, I could, I could die at 95% of the time perfectly. You know, it could be 9 o'clock. I've only, you know, 1,800 calories. I got a couple hundred calories left for a postwork at meal of sweet. This whole day is a success so far. And it would only, I mean, it would take me five minutes to completely overshoot my calorie goal by, I mean, I could slam 4,000 calories in 5 minutes at the end of the right food. I mean, it's up a bit in the jerry's, it's 1200. I could, I don't even, I don't even like thinking about it now because now I'm thinking about it. But, I'd say you could put me down for a strong 12 seconds on a tub of benning jerry's, depending on the flavor. You know, if it's got chunks, maybe put me in after 15, but if you're giving me just straight vanilla, yeah, that thing's gone at 12 seconds. And that's 1200 calories. That's double the amount of food almost that I've eaten all of today. So, you really do gotta be tricky about that stuff. You gotta be careful about that stuff. Because calories can, well, your machine may to survive. You can get calories in pretty freaking quick. And you're kind of fighting against my natural instincts right now trying to get leaner because my stomach and my brain is telling me, dude, you're hungry. You need eat something. You gotta, any food you can get your hands on, eat it. All right, I'm sorry, I can see food diet. You see it, napping. So I'm trying to fight against that sort of natural urge. But it's not that strong. You can overpower that sort of thing. Be as, keep it tough mind. If you're watching this at 11 and you're trying not to go to the pantry and just completely rate it, that's a thing. That's something I've been there. I've been there. I've grabbed yourself a Sprite Zero. Grab yourself a sugar-free gelo cup. Maybe mix it with 100 grams of frozen fruit. I've been doing that. A ton has been working out very well. Because I can have a full bowl of like just frozen fruit with gelo. Sugar-free, of course. The things 15 grams of carbs, but like it's a pretty substantial bowl. You know, so I always try to aim for that calorie smart option if you can. If you're really into the thick of it, if you're dieting face. But I think that pretty much covers me for back today. I'm getting pretty excited for arms tomorrow. And then I'm excited for the leg day after that and the chest day after that and the back day after that. The arm day after that and the leg day after that and definitely. So I will see you for arms.

Alright, this year I think we could all benefit from a pump now and ask questions later attitude. I really think that would be good for us, you know, because there's it's always, well should I do a long stretch focus three secondary centric plate loaded with a elastic band to help with a concentric five second preacher curl or should I do a and then insert, you know, another equally like length the explanation and set up of a movement when it's like let me tell you something pick up some dumbbells go crazy put them down when you're down and then just repeat. So I'm not trying to bash improving your training in no way am I trying to do that and I feel like I've been improving my training pretty consistently in kind of an exponential rate over the last like even just a year there's been a pretty massive change for me in terms of my execution and how my lifts look I mean I've got them all on freaking you know got them all on video like I'll go back and watch the way I've worked out even just last year and then I can go back even further two years ago it's very different and I think I'm better for now having made the changes that I made but so you can kind of get lost in the detail you know it's like I really think this is a good way to look at it you can get a sort of misconception that you're improving what you're doing by pinpointing and hyper fixating on the incorrect point of focus like you're missing the real point you know if somebody wanted to become or if you wanted to you know make somebody a better artist or a better painter you're not just going to suddenly double your painting skills by buying paint that's twice as sensitive if you're trying to um I mean it just it just doesn't freaking work like that you know it's just making use of what you do have and then improving your technique with it so the idea that giving or like the same guy a different workout and then suddenly that different workout will be magically 10% 15% 30% more effective than the other one it's you know you're missing sort of the whole point I'd be more concerned with the guy's intensity like when I watch anybody working out I'm not really thinking oh hmm he just did try to push down right after doing aerobic extensions really you're going to do two downward tricep extension movements in a row you're clearly working the same part of your triceps can you believe this guy or a schmuck know man if the guy's going crazy and I can tell that he's actually hitting legit failure then I'm going to look at that and think oh this guy's trying hard nice all right that's the bar I've been imagine boom do my set of whatever and feed off of that hype and intensity you know like it isn't um it's not just a going through the motion like do a set of this do a set of this do a set of this oh I'm doing everything perfectly right I need to go home it's all over done perfect it's much more subjective than and the idea of boiling down working out to like this just to you know a science for say it's you're kind of losing the human element because this training like working out really pushing yourself it's not a like relaxed and chill state of mind that you're putting yourself in you're really trying to kill it you're getting yourself excited ideally at least for me I mean I'm not the kind of guy to go to no music like I've got whatever kind of songs I'm listening to that I didn't really you know get me really hyped up and I'm getting into like a certain zone in my training where like yes obviously if I'm doing triceps I want to do some stretch focus work with overhead extension as well as some regular push dance stuff and go back and forth between some lighter sets and some heavier sets you know just make sure I get stimulus across the board on my triceps but to take it too much further than that and to you know take away from my energy and focus on just making sure that I really push it and then you know look at my oh my am I getting the perfect angle during this push down am I like I feel like you only got so much energy and sort of like mental capacity of thought at any given time or you know on any even day or whatever so I want to allocate a good chunk or at least a sufficient chunk of that towards making sure that each set is just taken to like a certain level of subjective intensity and I find that that's much more important than you know making sure that your form is absolutely perfectly correct or that you're executing these reps that they exact perfect tempo and it's a lot of the guys where they like they're trying to hype up that kind of training like trying to boil it down into I mean they're just trying to give good tips like they're trying to say how can you improve your training with the most up-to-date like different training methodologies like the basic idea is sweet yes obviously everybody wants more muscle I want to know how to train in a way that's going to make me more muscle of course like the the basic approach is sweet the the problem is a lot of arguments like that that I see especially in like Instagram comments or like threads or anything else it's always not motivated by okay let's try to come to the right answer you know name one time you ever seen a a diplomatic discussion about training in a comment section now this is just an argument the fact that it's about training is completely irrelevant you know these guys just want to come on to sort of any sort of platform they get on to just argue like some guys some people loved argue it's just the nature of things so I just hate that training gets it just doesn't get hyped up as much as I feel it should you know because what a workout is going to be better a 10 out of 10 set by set intensity of some guy really pushing himself doing eight sets of dumbbell curls let's say 10 reps of failure for eight sets on probably pyramiding down and wait there's the guy's going to get a little bit weaker every set or you know the guy who did seven different movements or you know five different movements or whatever but you know the intensity wasn't really there like he was kind of just going through the motions I would hope that it's obvious that the guy who is a killing with the simpler workout would make more progress than the guy scrapping around doing the science he would ever like making sure he does every perfect whatever and of course well just have that guy training is a really hard and do the fancy stuff yeah that I mean that's sweet too you know the problem is I just I don't usually see it as much you know but that's that's more of just a personal observation for me obviously I don't have these stats you know so if you're if it really gets you going to try to think about orienting your workouts by making sure that you're doing it the fancy was way possible and that gets you excited about your training then obviously do that I don't care it's whatever you've got to do to get yourself excited any after because the more lifts that you have that you can leave feeling proud of not in the sense of hitting specific numbers or doing specific new movements or anything else but just in the sense of I really pushed myself today and I know I didn't I'm not lying to myself that's what I want to clock those are the dashes that I want to be able to put on my sort of prison wall and if you're kind of counting the days, staffing or my guard these are all counting and these are all adding up so the basic sentiment of getting at there just get height man getting excited every set if you can really take and you don't have to be locked in you know huffing and puffing your entire workout but you know 15 seconds before each of your sets really take a moment get your music plan take a few breaths all right and then just make this shit happen you know and if you can do that long enough the results will show themselves I can guarantee but let's let's stop chatting I'm getting ready to get some music plan and get this arm day started myself nothing fancy for today looks to all of triceps and then move on switch gears do all a biceps then post that sometimes I get a little bit of like this itch to want to do back and forth just so I can finish arms with a complete pump but I don't think it's probably gonna really lock it it's just one style for every arm that make it a little repetitive so less than the stack but in a way I'll be able to feel and these are going to be slow and controlled rupus expectations reps huh Now this is a set that I do want to do nice and slow and really feel my triceps like gradually loosen loosen loosen and it squeeze again but later when we've on a dips my move a little quicker one more same way then let's do some seated dips I think that'll be a good transition yeah I have been doing the rope all wrong not recently I think I get the gess of the now but I used to do it like this like if you go back a year ago prior even probably less than you watch any arm day I would do I do the whole stack and I sit here and these ropes just look like this and I was it and I thought to feel my triceps but nothing like this slow full stretch squeeze I guess stretch and then a whole squeeze at the bottom the rope feels much better for me with that way but it's going to be some dipsmen change it up and these are going to be tempo wise very similar to the rope with the squeeze at the bottom and it's slow stretchinner there's your drop Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh. All right. One more. A little lighter than that first though. Two thirty and seven. Two ninety. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Yeah. Let's go to some cable one. Some overhead. Easy bar extensions will be perfect. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Two. Two. Two. Okay. That feels okay. I think I'm going to finish with regular stop bush towns. Oh, you start to need some curls. So that's three sets of rope, two sets of dips, one set of these and seven sets. Good about what I'm aiming for. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Strap them straps. Start curls something. Let's start with some seated concentration curls combined with self assisted reps. And I can't recommend these enough because not only is this just a good movement. Sit as such kind of rest your arm against your leg is support and then just do some concentration curls. But taking a step above that and then once you hit basic failure, you know, you can only curl it to here. Giving yourself self assistance to the top letting go for an extra five. I mean, it's really, I don't think I'm exaggerating what I say it feels like the damage of two regular work in sets to failure in one when you add that intensifier. So by said volume like lower today starting this way or starting with these sets. That's right. That's right. That's right. That's right. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. What do you want like that? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. One more set after this one. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Oh my goodness. Yeah. Yeah. Let me work in. Let's give it some preacher curls. Easy bar style. There we go. Nothing too complicated. Let's just go crazy. No. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's moving. I know exactly what I want to finish with. That was good though. So, bias was very cut and dry. Techniquize. More stretch focus work with those concentration curls. I really do make a point of trying to make sure I completely like relax my bicep arms totally straight at the bottom of at least the first two of those sets. The third one I was getting a little mussely with it. I didn't really totally relax into this stretch position. But that was a bit more stretch focused. Those preachers kind of in between because at the top of every rep I was really having a good squeeze and a good stretch at the bottom. And then now with a bicep bias pull down, I'm going to just put it to like two pounds for sort of examples of sake. I'm not feeling much tension up here because the weight is like in line with biceps. Like I'm very strong up here. I can probably load like three stacks worth of weight and pull it down this much. Now I wouldn't be able to do that all the way down here in the squeeze position. So this movement kind of gets harder as the rep progresses. So a bit harder at the stretch. I don't know what I'm saying. The squeeze position. So honestly, one set of these plus I'm kind of going to give myself self assistance as the set progresses. Because if I'm about to fail like bicep twice, I can still use my lats a little to help myself. I'm trying not to but at the end of the set I will get some latt activation. Put in the process. I'm telling him to thrash my biceps. And then I am pretty much ready for the post down. Alright. This is essentially the finishing touches in my mind. Let's do it. Yeah. Oh. Oh. Oh, okay. Oh, I gotta see. Arms complete. I was just finding some light. Alright. Now particularly packed in here right now. So I don't mind hogging some mere space for a little post down here. But honestly, I feel really good. I mean, for the amount of food that have eaten the last couple of days. Because I've kind of just hit a little bit of a calorie drop. If I want to maintain my sort of current rate of fat loss. I feel, dude, I feel as pumped as if I just ate a freaking million grams of carbs. Now part of that might just be biceps specifically. But look. I am not complaining. So let's run through some farm poses. Oh, wait. There you go. Oh, my goodness. Well, that's cool for me. The reason why I'm not a veins super sharp. I mean, just super freaking pumped. Especially my left arm. Like, I'm seeing this sort of bicep vein thicker than I ever see it. Let me do a little breath hold. I really jump it out. Oh, my goodness. Yeah. I've never seen that that pronounced. And I've still got like six more weeks of, well, all this freaking deficit cardio and everything else. Only freakier pumps, like, beyond. Well, let's get out of here. Stop taking up everybody's space. I got cardio to do though. 30 minutes of post cardio. No, I don't want to talk about it. 30 minutes of post lift cardio done. Not my full hour. Don't fret though. I'll simply do that a little bit later in the evening. Because I could kind of tell, since I lifted earlier, this car, I mean, this lift was just closer to when I normally do my morning cardio than I probably would have, well, not closer than I would like, but just closer than I've been doing. So rather than, you know, to leave the lawn and charm of my physical activities before 230, which it is the time now, I'll save a little bit of that cardio for later spread it out evenly across the day. So that means I got a little trip to my apartment gym later for 30 minutes on the seat of bike. Which really fits into, I would say 90% of anybody's schedule. Because this would be the last time I say this for a little bit. She's kind of repeating myself. But I can guarantee if you look at your screen time when you're phone. And I'm the same. We have a crazy amount of time. Just being wasted, right? You're just scrolling, you know, you're just chilling very passively. You're either watching a show or whatever. You can add cardio to the mix and it really doesn't feel like you're doing that much. Because the cardio is mindless. The workout itself, I'm not really the type of guy to have like a podcast going and like a show playing. Maybe if I'm doing more accessory work, like if I'm done with legs, hamstrings and quads, and now I'm doing eight sets of adductors, that's a little different because I'm just kind of going through the motion. Going through the motion of activating my adductors. I'm not doing like failure forced reps of the ad duct machine. So that's a little bit different. But with the cardio, I don't need to sit there and get myself amped up to Metallica. To do 30 minutes or an hour on the C2 bike. Really, I'm trying to do it just to strike myself from the fact that I'm doing the cardio. By sitting around and for me what gets me going the most has been having like a YouTube video or music plan. And then just spamming some some clash royale or like balloons tower defense. Like games that are just slightly, not slightly. They're just, they're mentally like stimulating enough where I'm engaged. And I'm not even thinking about the fact that I've been sitting here. I've had all my legs around for the last 45 minutes. And I'm going to do it for another 15. That's what I found the trick to be with my cardio. And if that's not your thing, the game I've had to do, just place some basketball. If you're sitting around the court, and not even, I want to say it's sitting around. If you're running around the court for real with like a crew, like you guys are actually playing like a 30 minute game. And you have like a little apple watch, or one of the garments or something to track your heart rate. And your heart rate is elevated, like you're basically averaging 130 that whole time. That counts as cardio. That is physical activity raising your heart rate above baseline. That's sick too, man. So if you're still doing any kind of sports or anything, and you've got kind of a balance between your sports and your work and out, then odds are whatever your practice is depending on what you're doing, that's going to count as your cardio. It really is just 30 minutes of being active apart from your workout. At least for anybody who's a lifter. Now for anybody who isn't really into any of it at all, then 30 minutes of just working out is already a big boost from zero. And then you add 30 minutes of cardio on top of that. I mean, look, I'm not particularly political, but the one hour of play, a little bit more kid targeted back in. What was that? 20, was that 2012? Ish, 20, 2010 or something back when I was at school? That we're getting on the right track. That's what we should be seeing more of, you know, and it could be anything. I mean, I'm honestly having a sort of a community center like that with the YMCA. Things like that, or I guess if you've got a really beefy gym, like one of the ones where it has a pool and a basketball court attached, that's pretty cool too. But it's like, you could really do anything. It's a little bit too cold, but if it were summer time right now, then instead of coming to the gym to do this cardio, I would just probably hop onto my bike, put a little phone mount, go back to my high school summer days, and just bike around playing Pokemon Go. Now, it wouldn't be as intense as I really just sit down in the cardio bike, handling at the same level of difficulties when I might go for a little longer. But really all I'm trying to say is the benefits that you get from increased cardiovascular activity on a consistent basis are really under-essual. Under-estimate. I cannot overstate that. But either way, my lift is down, I all have the little more cardio later. Now, I just get to go home and have a awesome postwork at Neil of Ground Turkey and Brock Lesle, Colourflower steamed. I know a lot of calories to be consumed, but I just realized I'm not exactly sure how long it's been since I've had a crisper and it's been a good time to be creamed down at. That's kind of the crumble doesn't really do with for me, the crisper-cream variety, six pack. That's my crumple cookie sort of box, that's my equivalent. And it has been quite a while. I almost said, I forget what it tastes like, you don't forget that kind of thing. But I could think about, I could win, and exchange for leanness, I can delay my crisper-cream intake for a bit longer. Maybe not for, maybe not infinitely long, but for the level of leanness in the time frame of my main and four, I can make it happen, I can save that for later. I'd say something, you'll be the first to know whenever I, whenever the six pack is added to my grocery cart. But that's all I got for arms. I'm going to make sure I get a good night's rest for a leg day tomorrow. Hopefully see some new striations, veins, and everything in between. And then just keep repeating these days until we get to the level of leanness that I'm really aim at for. So, until I'm in, I'll see you for legs tomorrow.