. It's coming out right now again. I can't just binge it. Which is probably a good thing. Good things will come to those who wait. But I wouldn't mind just basically watch the entire show. Oh it was. Two. It's entirety in one sitting. Early sitting. Direct sitting. But when are you going to do it? I'm going to wait for something. But to the way I'm going to switch that phrase around and get it related to the workouts themselves. It's just a time thing. I mean to expect games after just like a month or two months. I give there legit. This is my end game level games. It's not exactly. It's not as easy. You can't make progress in that time period. But it's all about gradual percentage changes over the long run. We've all seen the numbers. If you got 1% better a day for I think a year it's like you are now 90% better so good. Excuse my yawning. I don't have a food today. But the caffeine from the pre-started end. The caffeine of the beta alanines specifically are starting to get me feel a little bit tingly. But let's all that to say is, you know, if you want bigger arms try to just enjoy your own workouts because you're going to have at least a couple of hundred before you get to probably whatever your end state is aiming to be. But playing for tonight's arm day. Keep it simple. And by simple. The cold adds to it too. I get the cold car. But when I say keep it simple, I just mean nothing too flashy. I'm talking just straight set. The dips, straight bar push downs, rope extensions. There's no need to do any kind of extra fancy overhead this twisting single. It's a funny deal. If something becomes too complicated, I think he kind of lose the actual value of just doing a regular rest fucking set. So it's, I don't see it that much. I do see it sometimes. Somebody's doing a really fancy curl twisted up on the way down, twisted back, then go back down and do a few back and forth. But I don't know how to just don't see it. Right. Of course, there's value in a very, very lift. You know, do some dumbbell curls. Counter that with some preachers. Counter that with some straight bar. Counter it with, uh, try to hold that with you. But counter that with like some straight arm, uh, straight arm. Pull down, like bicep biased. Like there's a lot of ways to do it. But the overarching theme across all of those sets is if you go hard, you will be pumped. And being pumps doesn't something mean that you're growing. But it's just a good indicator that what you did is at least put me close to the right direction. The lifter who gets pumped will be much more like that to get gains and the lifter doesn't. And it's not like a one to one guarantee. But you know, if a dude always has scrappy lifts, he's taking 10 minutes between sets. He's not really getting into it like his, uh, his, like, subjective or, I guess he could say, objective, like level of excitement and hype. It's not even close to 50% capacity. Then, you know, how can you expect that guy to be killed? How could you expect that guy to make legit gains if he's not given himself a legit stimulus? So that's where I can't really get behind all the guys where they're kind of like their anti-music. You know, they're like, well, I don't want to rely on my music because it's, it's just a distraction. You know, it's just like a crutch. Like, what if I don't have my headphones one day? What am I just not going to have to work out? You know, like little things like that. And I don't hear that much. But when I do, it's like, well, I kind of feel like you might be better off if you had some kind of tunes going. If they get you really excited and they have to up because then, I mean, just, like, I guess I'm not you. So I can't say that for sure. But for me, at least, if I've got a crazy S fucking song playing, just gets you excited. You know, and even if you're only going to do like a 30-pound set of squeezing dumbbell curls, the more like hype and excited and energized you are about them, the better. Because then you're more in tune with what you're doing, you're more excited about what you're doing. Like, that's your shows. You know, if you had two guys, uh, well, let's just like, what do people do? Right? Let's say somebody made you do your laundry or like clean your house, or like, like, back in your kit, you know, like you got two kids, the clean one, and then the messy one. The one who wants is room to be clean and just like, stays like that. Like, that's this baseline. Whenever he wants to clean this room, it's because he wants to do it. So, guy, I want this way to clean. That's how I want to do it. You know, if you got like a younger brother where him cleaning his room is like a chore, look what happens. Like, what's look with the end result is? All it is is, you know, if I could kick everything out of the bed and just made it, like bare minimum level results instead of a little bit more above it beyond style. But oh, that's to say, you know, if you're going to do something, do it 100% man. Because if you have acid, you're going to get half as results and then you're going to have to somehow explain those results later. If not to anyone else, definitely to yourself. And that's just not cool. You know, what are you supposed to say? It's like, yeah, I could have gone harder, but I just didn't really feel like it. That's not an awesome self-reflection of the half. But I think we'll leave the pre-lift chat at that. I got to plug in some directions because the this main road got closed down. There's like a big accident over there. It's my end of the week you turn. But either way, let's go get some triceps started. And the first movement I have a reason to believe will be I want to change up arms from what I normally do today. So my logical, actual supersets. I'm talking straight from the rope to dumbbell curls. And that will basically be one set of bisey trice. And then just kind of, you know, pair some shit starting from there. Not the craziest approach in the world, but if I go hard, it shouldn't be at the end. My arms should be completely pumped both of the ones. That is why I get my knees playing. Mmm I got it. Hmm. There. TB. There's only one seventy so I gotta do the sixty-five's. Oh my gosh. One more dose. That was a good little combo of something heavy. Squeezing focused over here. Oh my gosh. Yeah, one more at the straight double crochet. See you on my jacket. All right, same theme of a paired up movement. But this time dips followed by, I wouldn't say a machine preacher. I think a better description is just a regular machine curl. But it is a little bit preacherish because you have like a pad on the back of your tricep. But either way, this being a combo. And this will be a stark contrast in style. So these dips are going to be heavy. Like that 85 pounds of the rope, very manageable. Like what made those reps hard is the squeeze and like slow release. But here I'll go a little heavier in the tricep movement. And the curls will be a little more lighter sweeping. So just a total flip flop of a perch. Yeah. Yeah. Nice. Okay. Do everything. I'll go lighter. That's fine. Oh yeah. One more. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. Oh. Let's go back to some cable for something overhead. So this will be overhead cable extension jumped into a decline drag and style hand curl by sets. So yeah, shit. I kind of got a theme going right now. The first set heavy buys lighter tricep. The second one heavy tries lighter buys. And now this pair of sets. These are both very stretch focused. Maybe the next ones are going to be squeeze focused. I'll use to say. But anyway, let's throw the sac around because with no extra weight that's within reason. Make sure I really feel my fucking arms bend as much as possible at the bottom. And then I only tip for the drag curls and go nuts. You can't really swing. I mean, he just kind of have to get yourself into a good sound. Oh. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, my god. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. I think the finisher is near. Let me think about it. Make sure. Pretty sure. This will be the ender. I'm thinking 10 or so reps regularly push down. Drop the cable lighten away because I can I can rep the stack pushed on twice curls not so much. But 10 or so regular push down's not to failure but to uncomfortability and basically. But that's not it. I'm not just going to be done. And I'll go back and forth back and forth a few times until my arms are completely burned out. Little rest pods super set style. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was a good under. Oh, my gosh. Alright, so let's be quick. The regular yoga room studio occupied. That's cool. Ain't get about a minute. We're letting line here. It's freaking enough anyway. And frankly, even if I was out in the freaking, you know, the outdoors on a cloudy day. Soft as letting ever. I don't think it'd be able to take away from today's arm pump. So by strides, both fully pumped at the exact same time is a rare occurrence. Doesn't freaking happen too often so I better enjoy it. Yeah. Yeah. Alright, one more backwards. And then I'll stop taking all the freaking public spots. Yeah. Oh, my gosh. Actually, when you say that. There we go. Now I should be looking a little more symmetrical. Oh, my gosh. Alright. Well, arms complete and thrashed beyond reasonable doubt. Let's get out of here. We're done. Arms pump to hell. A little bit of a quicker lift today, a little more efficient. And part of it, part of that arm did today was inspired by the last leg day where I did a two sets of hamstrings, two sets of quads, two sets of hamstrings, two sets of quads kind of back and forth in that sort of style, which dieting down that's when I like that. Because I mean, you gotta remember when I only consume or a sense of only consumed about 50 grams of carbs so far today. Oh, my gosh. I'm gonna break your stomach and eat it in a clock. I mean, good for me, I get to eat extra carbs tonight before I go to bed, so I'm not gonna be hungry when I go to sleep, which is just gonna make that, make the dieting phase, like sticking to my deficit a bit easier. But, I mean, when you're running low on carbs, like you basically had a gas tank of how carb-up you are. You know, how full of galega-jane and intramuscular circle plasmos, sorts of shit, which basically just makes your muscles extra full, right? mainly glycogen but when those gas tanks are low it's not as easy to get us pumps up your muscular endurance is a little bit lower than peak and your pump fades you know carb-dup it's the complete opposite you know so it really is kind of a bummer to have to go from carb-dup to carb-depleted because you're simply getting you got a hard time getting pumps you lose your pump faster and your little bit weaker I mean if I were to eat 500 grams of carbs the next three days which wouldn't be an awesome idea especially in that sense I'm trying to continue to get leaner but split reality I would be lifting heavier weights I would look freaky here because all of the muscle on my whole build would be up a touch because they fill back up with carbs I'd be extra pumped given that I have been depleted for like two months or so now I'd probably feel like insanely pumped and I'd be like holy crap instant level up but that's the that's the tricky part right that's the give I don't know I guess I guess that's the take the give is you gotta be flat to be in a deficit it's just a nature of it you know so if you're actually eating in a calorie deficit on the regular then you are going to be carb-depleted right you're gonna be on the flatter side of normal so it's you know it's kind of a if you're hungry then it's working type situation with a diet you know so it's a it's definitely tricky there's not really much getting around it right make sure you get your pump ingredients and whatever pre-work at your taken so they get your extra nitric oxide blood flow vasodilation and as long as you're very hydrated I'm talking water with electrolytes I got a I got a gallon jug sitting in the car I've been sitting on this whole time that's gonna help you get some good sleep make sure you hit your protein you are still you know eating enough food while maintaining your deficit you're still gonna be able to work at pretty hard right I mean I don't I don't walk into these lifts when I'm dieting I think oh my god I'm dying which maybe in a few months I will because I've never been stage ready lean I've only been like this lean maybe a little bit leaner really diced that's gonna come with his own with his own consequences which I have yet to see or I guess it's own challenges right but it's just the it's what it takes man so you can make it easier in yourself prep some meals you know make four pounds of ground beef leave it in the fridge whenever you're hungry for something have that first I'm not saying don't have like a sweet but if when you're hungry and it's time for a meal if you have a legit meal first right 50 grams of protein 20 is some kind of carb maybe 10 of fat from like whatever sort of sauce you put on it or maybe add a slice of just like a slice of American cheese if that does it for you I know I've got some fridge at all times just because I like it like you know not it not even like 10 slices of day I mean you know one every so often but like just little things and then if you really need something maybe open the cupboard open the open the pantry grab a little grab a little something and ideally you don't just immediately have like Reese's minis in the big ass bag for you to grab like you know keep some keep some intermediary sweets before you go complete the off the rails like I've always I've been getting these little bags of like different sort of fruit flavor granola and I can have like it's very light like it's an airy kind of crunchy sort of thing so I can have like a full mouth full of this stuff and it's only 15 grams of carbs when I weigh it out in the scale but yeah I'm not gonna turn this into a whole calorie deficit drive back to the crib but that is the factor which I've not changed which is making me get leaner it's not that I'm training harder it's not that I'm sleeping in some kind of different way or I've discovered like whim-hoff breathing it's because I'm eating less calories than I'm burning per day and my body's got a burn nose extra calories and keep itself moving from somewhere so instead of just like photosynthesis which I guess if that were possible then I maybe dieting down would be impossible but it's just gonna come from your internal fat stores man right so that's where look up some mat look up well maintenance calorie calculator how to track your macros tutorial beginners on YouTube and just go from there that would be the that's my last stick of at the dieting for now but solid arm day yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I'm I'm gonna sleep hard tonight I think I might have to bump it up to 40 minutes a cardio the morning soon not yet because I'm still losing weight at a relatively steady pace I was 2308 this morning so we're getting down there my so the basic plan which like I don't have a specific show pick yet once once those dates get really locked down this is gonna this series is gonna flip from the winter shredathon to like prep day whatever which I guess technically you could say I'm like prepping right now but all prepping is you know you're dieting down for a show so it doesn't make change much for me all I'm doing is taking a few levels further than I usually do but I was a yeah so but once I get that you know time frame down that's the plan for February ish so that's my time frame but for my height for classic physique I have got a weigh in in check-ins at 217 now that's 217 dry cut a bit of water totally absolutely depleted and then you've got kind of from check-in until finals that night need a couple extra carbs fill back up a little bit and then you look like a real freak that night so I'm well you tell me I mean I know comment sections aren't always the most awesome source of information but if any of you guys have some body-building competition history I'm under the impression that if I can get to about 27 lean walk around weight so within the next basically 10 weeks continue to lose about one pound per week then those last couple days of really getting you know depleted and dry I think I can drop about 10 pounds of water so for my size I mean if I like if my water and take his off after like a day of travel or whatever I'll wake up like six pounds lighter than next to anyway so 10 doesn't feel like a stretch and then that should put me at well just as lean as all end up being you know but that's so as long as I'm on that sort of pound a week track then I am good I am freaking good but I'll keep you updated once I get that actually planned out because some of these shows aren't planned out until like reasonably close to when they're gonna happen especially the smaller local ones but yeah that'll I'll keep you updated with whenever we really kind of hone down how that's gonna look but apart from that I mean nothing really changes you know still just diving down like normal like no matter what your end goal is dieting wise like getting leaner it's still always just calories and calories out man do your cardio train hard don't over eat hit your protein try to maintain all the muscle you've already built up and then just gradually get leaner and the scale will be a very good indicator of if you're on track or not because if you're the same 180 that you've always been they probably not getting leaner man you just probably eat a little bit too much yeah but yeah it's all we gotta say there so I've got legs to tomorrow I'm gonna try to do a bit of an earlier lift I need to get on a little bit more of a regular schedule because I've been kind of just lifting like whenever like later in the evening five, six sometimes like three if I'm extra ready for it but I think I'm gonna try to get a little bit more of a set of routine where I'm lifting on a more consistent like time-cramed basis the cardio I'm good with the cardio is like roll out a bed caffine of some variety drink some drink like a leader or so a water go to the bike at 35 minutes that's quick but the lift is a little more variable and I kind of want to get this routine a bit more well just smooth in a way maybe smooth's not the right word but maybe consistent is what I'm thinking about so I think the lift in it more similar times might do me good keep my sleep schedule a little bit better not that I've been sleeping bad or anything but that is something I want to continue to try to to try to optimize always room to improve like I think that's something that I definitely do not want to try to put out is the idea that like yeah you know I know exactly every little detail facet of what I'm doing and I implemented perfectly like no man you know simply I mean don't forget it nothing is perfect right but to even have the idea that you are you know I know it all body building training like kind of just you know what are you talking about or completely close in yourself after any new idea come on right I mean we've all heard the classic sort of phrases like the guy who the guy who asks a question is a fool for a minute the guy who never asks one is a fool for life like you gotta you know you gotta be wrong for a little bit before you can figure out how to be right and I think with the training that is as true as anything you know so it's like if you're putting in a reasonably conscious effort on the regular trying to improve your routine trying to improve your routine you're you're a team again trying to improve your sleep in your training and like looking at your metrics you track your way you track your calories you get into or you work your way up to tracking your calories or you work your way up to tracking your way like any of these little just small percentage changes will begin to add up and before you know it you're gonna be saying the same shit like yeah crap those open your packets aren't really they're kind of upset and messed up man I got a switch to cream or write so I got a switch to cream a week or just like random little details like that like the the adjustments you'll end up making later on become so like fine tune to you that I mean you almost you know it almost feels crazy for you to think that like two months and to work it out but I think it'll really give you a real real real yeah I'm sure he tested my blood sugar with like one of the one of the blood glucose monitors it's probably on the lower end of like 60 or something getting a little hypos well 60s and hypoclicy that'd be like more like 30 or so but I can tell when I'm dieting down sometimes especially if I'm talking like directly after a lift it's usually legs that like I can feel I'm running low on carbs and that's what your brain is we can run it out for the most part you know so it's just feel it will not absent minded but kind of like sometimes we just go our way well good lift I'm gonna stay well within my calorie deficit for tonight and then I'm gonna get some crazy ass sleep wake up cardio in the morning you need a couple more meals tomorrow and then have a nice what's a good descriptor a nice pump and I pump inducing leg day tomorrow and that was a I don't think the guy was talking to me that day was getting cut into traffic but either way the year is almost over so if you look back and think fuck she locked in my damn I said I was gonna go crazy this year just didn't make it happen right the bright side of that statement right the end the opposite side of the coin you got all of next year to try again you know but the sooner that you can jump start that that you know really trying part the better because as much as you can really like hope core like you can always you've always got time there's not infinite time we only get so much so the sooner you can start locking in the better but now I'm just saying classic mumbo jump I'm a freaky ass pump I'll see if there's a leg tomorrow

There we go. Dreaded by most loved by some, completed by maybe some percentage of lifters in the middle is a good description for a legit leg day. In terms of let's just get out of the way with the plan is for it. I'm thinking alternating between hamstring and quad movements so that I can kind of sort of maximize my energy reserves in a way and also just be more pumped at the end of it. Like that's a non-negligible aspect of me wanting to do quads and hands sort of congruently because at the end when I during the post down the pump check my hamstring will be fully pumped my quads will be fully pumped. It's just fucking cooler, you know. But more like I said, a little bit of adductors at the end too but that's usually just it's to end playing my phone for a couple sets. This morning after cardio I spliced in some abs and calves because at the apartment gym bike, like it's a gym, it's got cables, it's got dumbbells to 50s more than enough so like if that's all you've got access to there's no reason not to kill that. I mean that's definitely enough stuff to actually get a good workout. But after the 35 minutes on the bike I did like six sets of cable crunches and then I think it was maybe it wasn't anything crazy. It was like maybe five or six alternating sets of just 10 reps of calf raises on the leg press machine. Like nothing wild but just enough to get a pump up I'm gonna start adding that a little more with the cardio. Just I'm like kind of more regular base. I mean everybody's skipping calves but you still got to hit him a touch. I mean as long as you don't want like you want a little bit of a like a drumstick look below the knee. So if you're somebody who's a bit less fortunate in the calf insertion slash calf genetic set of things. One praying for you. So two excuse man. Still try. There are videos of guys where they just can't get over the genetic factor for their calves. I don't know if it's like a fast twitch slow twitch sort of thing about we have a we hand that over to some of the more science-based guys to say well the guys with some of the calves have more this M-Tor fiber which doesn't allow. There's probably some reason but the fact is you know if you want your calves to grow hit your calves if you want your chest to grow you hit chest if you want bigger legs you have to hit your legs you know it's it's as simple as that for the most part and then little details can become more complicated but it's now worth getting into too much. So that was more like an eight o'clock it's now five ten even though it feels like nine I'm I don't know what's wrong with me this year but it's like it's taken a minute to just to the fact that it's getting this dark this early which I guess is a good thing. It's making me sleep a bit more of a regular schedule but yeah gonna go to a good one of the little more grungey kind of hardcore gyms. I haven't gone to the same ones that kind of close to the house the last few weeks and it's short of drive but that is one benefit of the multiple gym memberships is it's not just different places and you know different hours which depending on where you live that can be a pretty serious thing. I mean I've got a couple of things where they especially like peak clocking back hours it was a time when they were only opened like ten to three. Now of course that was like mid-COVID it shut down everything but still it's taken a while to claw our way back to a regular like you know close to ten kind of situation but apart from the fact that it's just different hours and different stuff. That's just different environments you know like a real grungey pretty hardcore gym all metal plates metal dumbbells little rattly like it's it's just got a different environment than like a planet that's and that's not to be like forgotten about because you know if you want to be in a space where you feel hardcore it's always going to be a bit easier for you to go if you're really trying to like get yourself in the zone because it's fucking taking you a little bed to get amptop because like I don't know maybe something about the blue lights that's it's just not as fun right so if you've got a I see this a lot whenever I go to like a cool gym and I talk to any guys who are actually like regular there I'm always saying like yeah you guys are fucking lucky this is a freaking awesome gym to be left to live but then it's like you know be really neat all the fancy shit anyway it's even look good for some different fucking angles either way let's just get ready to go slash a slash but thrash quads, rec hams drinks and then hopefully not even has to take my pants off to the pub jack because they won't have exploded because they got so a swollen and popped up you know do I think that's really gonna happen no but is it out of the realm of possibility not so short how about we have we're just getting there find out let's start simply enough moderate wheat land curls not crazy thing in the world but it's hard to start with anything else if I were to start with like a already-live something it's almost a little too like stretch folks you know it's like I want to be pretty exhausted because then when I do do an idea not to say do do but two plates only on the Smith I'll be able to feel my fucking hamstrings really firing because they've already been burned out so you know it's almost like well it's not a good analogy but it's like if somebody punching the arm it wouldn't take much force to get you to feel those pain signals again because it's already kind of tender now of course this damage is in a good way but I think you get the gist of one again so let's let's just go nuts in a controlled fashion ugh well too heavy but let's see one more just like that and then move on to some like extensions and another sort of back and forth silence today oh okay let's go grab a white extension rest periods are getting shorter you know the incest just aren't so damaged I get still failure but I'm hitting failure earlier let's carbs let's kind of just set high set endurance I guess but the pump goes on let's grab something let's belt in and then 10 reps on the left side 10 of the right back and forth until just quad up moderation and this weight is within race like this is nothing crazy one sixty a little more than double stack or a little more than half this deck but it's a kind of a late stack so this is serving two purposes for one it's a good work and said but it's also warm up my knees like wands in general so if I move on to some kind of pressing next like a squatter like press I'll just feel more ready for it you know like you're not going to want to bust that into a full on sprint without warming up and that's kind of what these are serving a purpose of at least in the scheme of quads you Oh, okay. A little head, let's not just one. But that was good. Meas are feeling really good. One more. Give me a second. Yeah. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Oh my god. No. No. No. Oh, yeah. Wow. That's a good. Slaw or stretch focus style. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Oh, holy shit. One more. But slower pool of damage on a repy. It's not out of the. It's so fucking out of the. Yeah. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Okay. That's good. It's going again. Movements. TBB. I got to play you better for a second. Well, the idea of what it is, money will be a leg extensions again, let's say. A little bit of at least wisdom that applies directly to me on kind of. I'm feeling very strong. But usually this leg press full stack is pretty fucking head to the point where I mean, after like, you know, a few sets of leg extensions more. even get the first rep moving. Loading low in a good set. So you might think, okay, well, like what's feel extra strong? My knee's still really good. They have been a little bit tender the last few days, but now I got the green light. I should try to, I should try to just want six plates on Smith vision. Now I can climb that's the exact answer. So I'm gonna air on the side of caution. I'm still gonna, I mean, this is the sack, of course, but this is gonna be a bit more lengthy torturous set. I'm gonna try to do as many reps as I can, no rest, no nothing, which is, I mean, I guess that sounds like it goes with that saying. But for some like a leg press, or even bench, it's very easy to do some, get a little tired, and then rest at the top for the extra breaths. So I'm gonna try to get as many rapid reps in a row, and then obviously burn out with a couple of big hoffs and puffs in between to get, you know, whatever benefits, a little bit of mid set reoxygenation to do for me. So now I gotta do is, okay, good song, get it up and go nuts. And I think I'll go one notch deep there. That'll be good right there. Actually, now. That's good. There we go. All right, come on. Here, here. Boom. Let's hit him. Nice. Nice. Nice. Its going. Boom. Boom! Ooh! Keep there! Oh! Well, Emm! Yes! Ah, me! OK. Oh gosh. Oh Oh Oh Oh crap That is like the weirdest shit. Here's the first two reps feel like nothing but then six hit you like a fucking uh Oh Like a full bag like Let's do it for Mario's nice Smith machine If it's open Not my favorite But dumbbells will still work 75 Same as normal Hinge at the hips And feel my hamstrings do the main pulling Much easier said than done So start lighting just try to get a beautiful for it Let's finally tip to anybody There Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh One more Alright come on Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Ah I feel like starting this old time my good Oh Oh Oh Let's move on to some of the extensions again I'm fucking dying right now And again the good way but I'm putting on the deficit Back to the outside I have reasons to believe that this might actually be yet Left right right Alternating this time Every five months And honestly my quadro It's fucking cool I wonder I think I might actually start after like Like leverage My carbs during the week To bias a carb heavy quading Because like arms doesn't suffer so much from the player And I'm still a good chef and back day flat as your flat AF right But legs I'm hitting the thick point of difficulty Diet related to the point where I might need to get myself a little more food on leg days And let it less on the rest of them It's a kind of counteract the average calorie intake Just so I can really keep thrashing legs Or alternate solution Drop the leg volume Doesn't feel like a cooler option but that might just be there Might be decay Well Either way I think this will be it Post down And then for you we'll go to the car But for me I'm just gonna go camp out On the ad dr. For a while Okay Let's go plant some beer today Appreciate it Alright Let's get a minor zoom in here But legs I would say legs have been stimulated I think thrash is not exactly the right word But that's kind of not what I'm aiming for right now It sucks because like it's not cool It's not cool for me to say I kind of took it easy But the amount of energy to recover that I have right now And the calorie deficit It's just not fucking infinite You know like bulking up If you're eating in a real calorie surplus Like you're eating an extra five 700 calories On a day-to-day above your maintenance Then I would go so far as to say over training At least in like a regular working out Kind of context Is damn near impossible Because you just got so much fucking food in your system Like if you really were overtraining You would know it Dying down That's where it's actually a bit more legit Because it's like yeah, I've simply only got 23-ish hundred calories a day So recover from all this damage I'm trying to do And if I overdo it I'm gonna get gradually more tender And so I'm gonna hold it all Like random pieces of shit And my knees are gonna like you just fucking adds up You know, so I gotta be a bit smarter And the dieting down context Which unfortunately for me means you know No nose bleeding sets of sniff squats But that's okay That'll be for the bulk And a few months from now But let's roll up these pant legs and see just how we're looking I need shorter shorts Because when I roll these up I get a little A bit of a diaper look But what do you ever do? So That's certainly a set of freaking squats No, I'll get this Yeah, you got a hint of quad feathering I'm not sure it really comes across in the camera It should And then let's see how the size of the camera Now I'm gonna get this So gradually giving vaneier Caffe veins I'm becoming a more apparent We do a little breath hold see if I can bust him out a little bit extra Y'all Oh, well Any other case Quad's breathing will be pumped Hamstrings definitely fucking fatigued And now all I get to do is Run over to the ad doctor Sit down play on my phone and squish my legs together for a couple sets Back to shit up in the car and go eat something Okay, starving Okay, I think I Officially need a Refeed day It's not that does not mean I'm now gonna eat ten gazillion calories Ten thousand calorie refeed challenge Not exactly not a freaking exactly But a refeed is not just an excuse to cheat on your diet It actually does have some legit utility That is if it's actually used and it's intended to fashion You know because there's a diminishing return effect that happens as you diet And then dining down especially And I will explain This is a little bro sciency But the basic sentiment is there like it's a pretty good description I feel As you get lighter you physically get You're holding on to less mass You have to keep less mass on your frame alive Which is your main energy Not source but your main consumer of energy It's just staying a fucking life You know do in your cardio whatever you burning calories you do whatever But as much energy as you output physically I mean you're burning like ten times that just in like heat production And you know keep in all your muscle oxygenated So obviously a whale is gonna need to eat more food than me It's bigger So as you get lighter as you get leaner as you get smaller You actually have to eat less food Because your body now needs less food to stay that weight So it kind of you sort of like a self regulating system You know if if a famine were to hit And you were suddenly now only able to access Twenty you know two thousand calories per day If you only ate two thousand calories per day And let's say you started at three Then you would get lighter you'd get to a lighter body weight until 2000 was your new baseline Three thousand used to be your baseline up here when you were this heavy But now that you're lighter Less food will let you stay the same size So when you die down you have to fight against that because your metabolism wants to slow down Right food is now becoming more scarce So as a system you like dude fuck But then I start really running through this shit like Like whatever like I got to conserve this energy You know see your metabolism starts to slow down a bit And that sucks because what that means is if you want to continue losing body fat Then if your baseline metabolism if your maintenance calorie number is now decreasing Then if you want to keep getting leaner you have to continue to eat less and less and less and less and less So one step which helps mitigate that effect is by doing your cardio Like maintain some extra activity in calorie burning So that you're always you know kind of keeping your metabolism a little bit higher from being more active Right if somebody were to do two hours of activity per day versus someone who doesn't even if they're the same weight That guy who did two hours of any kind of activity. I'm not even saying working out But anything like being active He will burn more calories in the day Then the guy who didn't so dieting wise That's sort of the gist that's the situation The longer you diet you have to continue to eat less and less fucking food But if you do that before you know it fuck man I'm an 1800 calories today if I want to keep losing this pound or whatever You know and I do not want to be eating 1800 calories per day at least not yet You know dude I'll do it. I'll do it. I have to do later on in this what is going to end up being a prep Right once I'm really getting an extra lean but right now I don't have to go that drastic So the logic of a refeed is okay My metabolism is slowing down. It's getting I'm getting used to this deficit It's not giving me the same like fat burning effect that it used to because now you didn't use to it So the refeed and then you take a day you eat an extra I don't know what the standard amount is Usually I just kind of end up going like a thousand calories over maybe an extra like 300 to 50 grams of carbs of whatever variety usually a treat That's a I use the refeed kind of is like a cheat in a way but The idea there is okay now you're suddenly adding extra fuel to your system your body's like okay, dude Now I get a lot of food eat all right Kind of ranch your metabolism up a little bit more because now you're used to running on that much So you almost give your metabolism next to kickstart and as you keep getting leaner Or as you keep a or as you get back on track to eating in your calorie deficit Then it'll be a little it'll have a little bit more of a punch You know and then that's not the best explanation But you know it's about it, you know So it's been about two months of Consistent calorie restriction It's probably about a good time Especially today I could kind of feel a little bit of extra extra lower energy in that quad day And not like overall energy but really like set by set kind of endurance because I want to be I still want to kill it even if I'm darting down So that's and then if you're thinking well Sam what you're really need to change is start adding some goddamn rest days Why are you training every day you might be on a something that is also something I'm thinking about too Because like I was saying during the post down like if you're eating the ton of food if you're actually eating more than enough fuel To run your system and keep training on the regular then over training gets tricky You know not the easiest thing to do but you start restricting your calories You start getting extra lean you're really kind down Then the rest might be necessary So we'll just have to see I'm not anti rest day But I just don't want to take him if I don't need to you know because it's like I'm just a freaking you know lifted nut You know you can't you can't take the gym rat out of the gym. It just doesn't work like that you know But you know rock so that's something that I might kind of consider but with the might be a little hiatus I guess on those days I'll just because I'll still do cardio of course. I'll just that might just ease back in the lift So in days like that maybe I don't know what I'll just show you some bills and stuff But good lift There ain't good friggin lift even though it was a little bit later on the gas pedal Then I would probably prefer it's just a nature dide down right now I'll get back to full throttle once we start bulking up again So that's the that's the given take you know you're bulking up Big strong crazy pumped Not so lean you're diving down you look a little crazy But you know feel so crazy so it's it's always just like a back and forth right can't have it He can't have it exactly perfect there's always a given take with those sort of things But that's why I like either bulking up or cutting down at least for now Because I'm still trying to like make gains and continue to beef up eventually I'll reach a point where I'm like, okay, this isn't I'll stay here for a while and then back off to a bit more regular you know, I'll probably do the classic Body bill they're a transition into like more athletic face training because I you know I don't know how long it's going to take but I'm sure eventually I'm going to have my fill of you know chasing size And then I'll want to get more more limber again, but that'll be a little while right for now We're really into this part of it, but for now I'm either bulking up or cutting down right no matter what time of year it is There's always a specific directive which I'm aiming for which I really think is important for I mean anybody lifting context Because if you're trying to make progress But you're not like working towards something specific then it's such an arbitrary goal man, you know, it's like You kind of have to pinpoint yourself down to some specific metrics that you want to work on And that makes it so much easier to adjust and try to improve on them because you actually know specifically what you're aiming for Right, I mean telling somebody or somebody saying, okay, I want to get better or golf I always add that golf references just because Mark does it but I want to get better at golf man It's like what the fuck is that you want to you want to you want to better drive you want to stop a slice in it You want to get your short game back in line like well, there's a many ways to look at that Whereas somebody who says to himself, okay for the next couple of weeks I really want to work on my internal rotation and form and keep it in my left arm totally straight And keep not tracking the ball, you're just like little things like that, you know, it makes it so much easier Because instead of a big or a big overarching like just idea of something you want to do If you pinpoint it down you magnify it out, okay, I want to gain weight I want to gain muscle, I want to bulk Then that's not arbitrary, that's okay. I want to eat in a surplus, I want to train hard, I want to recover And I want my trend line on the scale to be positive That's it, that's not it, but that's the gist of it, same thing, dieting down All right, I mean, I want to get lean Calorie restriction cardio training recovery It's four parts Now it's not as easy as dad, there's a lot more that goes into it But if you're looking at it, are you looking at your routine, you say, okay, what do I need to improve on? It's really just those four things, man, you know, are you slacken off or are you taking a couple extra Rest days or taking like weeks off of the gym consistently? And dude, you're training's off, what the fuck? Are you staying up crazy late and waking up at a regular time? Like you gotta do like school or whatever, and then you stay up until two o'clock Played four night or something, you're sleeping shit Fuck man, you gotta work out Are you actually eating in a calorie deficit? Are you trying to track your stuff? Fuck man, you gotta start tracking that shit, you know? I'm not trying to cut back on the swearing, it's, I don't know I swear I don't talk that this in real life, like person, person So you have to drink today You had a monster and a Coke get lunch, your hydration is off that And that's like those four main things, if you could jump those a little bit closer to ideal And I'm not even saying perfect, but just a bit closer than lifting wise progress wise You're gonna see some pretty noticeable fucking changes And the best part is it's insanely direct Like if you get a good night's rest on average for the next week, you're going to feel it right that If you stay and actually get yourself really hydrated, you're gonna feel better If you're actually eating as much food as you're aiming for, being bulk cut, maintain You should see those results basically instantly on the scale Now I say instantly isn't like, you know, over the course of a few days or like a week But in the scheme of working out a week, it's quick And if you actually start training, extra hard, you know, a lot in the in the sense It'll notice it takes a little while it takes a little while But you will notice and the best part is it's hard in the beginning, but it gets easier You know any top level dude at anything Sure, like they're putting in it same effort, they're really grinding All the time they're looking at all these little details about what they're doing Try and improve it, but since they've worked their way up to that speed It's no longer like a challenge, that's just their baseline day Like that's what they're used to Like to reach a state of locked in It's I feel like it's so like Pandered on all the TikTok hype edits and stuff We're like it's just crazy maximum effort like everything But the reality is I think really being locked in It's not to the point where you feel like you're full throttle redlining your effort like every day Because locked in is just what you're used to Like going to the gym every day is normal life Doing your cardio on the regular just feels like another step Track in your calories It's just what you do, you know Like you wouldn't look at a tuna or a freaking What's like a marlin swimming what like 60 miles of freaking hour in the water Like that's just what they're made for you know so you can get to that state just by exposure I mean sure tracking your calories sucks at the beginning as much as I love talking about it I'm not trying to say it's easy you know You feel like you've got OCD you know you're weighing everything you're counting every gram of everything Like yeah me it sucks I'm not a I'm not oblivious to that but the longer you do it eventually it's just still normal and you don't even think about it Right, I mean that first day that you came in and worked out And especially you know maybe the day or two after you really felt like it hit you But two weeks later that's soreness is gone right you're getting more use with your adapting to the training environment that you're putting yourself into And if you continue to give yourself enough stimulus to adapts Then before you know it like 90% effort will just feel like regular effort You know so just something to think about right I mean the guys who And it's kind of it's so counterintuitive you know because I'm sure anybody who you've ever seen in your gym where they're like a top dog bigger dude And maybe not even bigger but just like they're training consistently for a long time they know what they're doing For them it's not a challenge to say okay, I'm going to the gypsa day Okay, I'm gonna get my pre-work out and get my shoes together and I put my gym back in the car with it's get after this run Like that internal battle that doesn't exist for that that's just how they do it But as a beginner if getting through that internal battle of like a fucking guy got to go to the gym Then that's just the difficulty level that you have to reach and if you can break through that in two weeks later That little debate in your mind will begin to fade and now instead of thinking okay, am I gonna go to the gym today? It's like okay, how hard am I gonna go today? Okay And then eventually you get to a point where you have to tell yourself okay, I better back off on legs today because I'm dying down, I don't want to stress out my knees from trying to go too heavy I'm like press in a calorie deficit you know, so it's a momentum which takes a while to build up But once that speed has been acquired then object emotions can sustain a tricky portion So the tricky part really is just building up that speed at the beginning But that's my stick there and if you're working on the regular you already know this someone I don't have to say that to you know what you're doing But playing for tomorrow some chest Maybe a little bit of side duts just get kicks but we'll have to see I've been saying that and I don't really do it So maybe maybe I'll have to have it tomorrow Well, I'll see how chest feels if I feel crazy pumped after the chest after the chest portion Then I'll just call it there but either way, I'll see you tomorrow

It's pretty cold man. It's 22 out here with wind. Not my favorite state. At least it's just a cold and wet. Cold and dry, you know, what a cold and wet. But plan for back will be an earlier lift actually made freaking day. It's up 30. When are you going to wear this? In a few words, hump the S.H.I.T. out of it. Lats traps and everything else in between, which is, I mean, it's not cool to say, but the training metrics right now, it just, the stakes are a little lower. You know, because all I'm doing is maintaining the muscle that I've already built. And maintaining is not so tricky as I really build it. So, I, like, it's not like I'm bored for say, but the dieting down phase is a little bit less stringuous overall just because the tricky part is the battle of okay. Maybe don't listen to it. Listen to you, body telling you. Sam, don't get three double cheese workers. Sam, I know you would mind a big ass bowl or whatever, which I'm not feeling insane like cheat on my diet or urges yet, but that's the hard part of the diet, right? It's, uh, it's simply fighting your instinct to want to eat more food. That's the, really the number one factor. Herdo is whatever. I mean, the acarrio is not the trickiest thing in the world, but the dieting calorie restrictions. That's what, that's what tricks people up. And the hard part is, it's like, it's, it's purely for your own sake, you know? So, it can't be cheated. Like, every time you go to the cupboard or you go to the pantry, nobody's watching and you get just a handful of anything. You know, a couple of pretzels, a couple of whatever. Those calories add up, you know? And even if you try to, like, forget about it or you ate it and passing and you were just kind of mindlessly, like, there's a bowl of chips on the table, so you had a couple, like, you might forget it, and it might not seem like anything even noticeable for your day, but your body walked, right? So, it really does require some diligence, which turns it into a pretty serious freaking chore. But at this point I've done it so many times, or at least, I don't know, I think I've gotten lean, maybe five or six times from being a little bit softer, so I've gone through the process of restriction cardio, everything where, you know, I know I can do it, but I think I might just want it to be happening faster. And I'm definitely starting to feel some of the effects, especially in yesterday's leg day, you know, was really feeling some fattest fatigue from something lack of calories. So, the point where I got home, I had an extra big bowl of the race with my grab beef, so I went about 800 calories over my limit, turned it yesterday into a little bit of a re-feed day, and as expected woke up a couple of times heavier, but every so often re-feed does have a plate of silence, that's all I talked about in the way home, get the carton, the way back, legs, last week, but back, nothing braised, last time I did it, it was like alternating like two sets of rows, two sets of full dance, two sets of rows, two sets of full dance, kind of back and forth like that. So this one, I changed it up a little more, maybe I'll do all rows first and then finish full dance or, oh, it's just have to say hey, I mean half of a half of my thought process is right now, it's like okay, let's go in, let's warm up, let's see how I feel, and then also see what machines are taking, and I'd heard about the puppy gym, okay, I'll work out what's up, and it's like yeah, I asked to work in, but there is a point and I think I'm better fit to be in, say okay, but machine I wanted to do was taken, no need to dwell on this, even at all, immediate pivot, do something else, just kids, and you're not sitting around waiting, and if you're waiting like five minutes between machines, five minutes, especially guiding down, not full carbs, that's a time to completely lose salt pump, and then you almost have to build back your momentum, it just sucks, and so if you wanted to do a hamstring row, but then you had to crew three-due the rotation using it, pick something else, Pronto, and then get that, because you gotta remember, it's not necessarily important that every specific set is done in a very specific way, but I always come in at six o'clock in your chest, I always do the smith, and I always do the kiddo, so if you're a little more on the superstitious side, this might be a bit of a hard tip to roll to get into, but it's not about a set by set basis, it's about an average cumulative set of tits, which if overall, it's great, then you're good, and you've got a little leeway where maybe you think you wanted to do this row machine, you get six reps in, and you think, and yeah, I don't like to play these fields, let's just jump into something else, the quicker you can make that decision, the better, because if you don't make it decision at all, then you just sit around like, oh should I do this search? Oh, this is, then before you know, you're spending an extra 30 minutes in the gym lead, and after, it barely pops, probably not have a much fun, it's not conducive to me that during a literally flow, you don't say it, but either way, I can predict with 98% certainty, that 2% uncertainty, that's, uh, that would have to be packed in a higher power, I'm talking to you, you're straight, that in an hour or so time, mind you have a freak chance back, so don't point yourself in it further, just go make it happen. I never start with V bar rows for a reason, sometimes I don't like the fact that it's kind of restrictive range of motion-wise, like with a wide grip, I can really pull far, and think of it as a close grip, it's like almost running into my lats, but if this had a different kind of squeezing feel, I started to explain, but it's almost like I'm feeling my lower lats and my upper traps at the same time. When usually with a wide grip, I kind of either hit one of the other, but either way, a controlled squeezing set, it started nothing to the wild, bit Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. One or two more. Same style, same everything. Not the heaviest stack in the world. Honestly, probably good thing though. If it did go heavier, probably go too heavy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. One more. One steak and more. I think one more piece. Maybe an upper back focus rail over Yonder. And pull that. I can see a three moment lift. Doesn't take much of a whole thing. But let's get one more going. I might, uh, uh, mostly. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Holy crap. Oh. Well, that was good. Let's do a chest supported row over there. And unlike, uh, five. Well, unlike this stack, that one's fucking heavy. It's not going to need full stack action over there. More light and controlled. All right. I might have theory just a little bit. This first one, I'll try to go extra heavy. The next one I'll go a bit later. That's a little stronger than I expected as all. No. No. Oh, yeah. Oh. That's too heavy. That's a good set. But I was still at the chat. Let's drop a 30 instead of 300. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Okay. Let's go back to some of that. Let's do it for a moment. Pull down to occupied. But the cable is not so. Left-back first. Then right side, single arm, squeezing. Pretty heavy. I mean, the full stack. So, I'll go to the announcement. All right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think one more goes. That'll be it. Six set shooters today. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, my gosh. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

There we go back to, back to base, back to regularly documented, working out, working out related discussions. But yesterday we ended up flying back, so I mean Mark were in freaking transit from a 10 Vegas time till like 9 o'clock, Ohio time. So I mean you know, a little bit shorter only like 8 or so hours. But enough where, by the time I got back, it just made more sense to save legs for today. Instead of trying to sneak it in yesterday at like 11 at night and then not go to bed till who knows, like 2 or 3. So cardio this morning, 30 actually, document. And you hear, I don't like shit. When J tells you the kick and in gear, I think you, you kind of have to listen. So I think that's a good cue to jump it from my 35 minutes to at least a 40, maybe even 45. I've been doing 45 the last couple of days when we were at the like going to the random gyms when we were down there. I think I'll see how I can handle 45. But year almost over. I mean, what's today December 9th? How many days is that? 3308 or something? 3 into 39. Either way, something like that. And I tell you something, there's two kinds of people. There's the guys who did their cardio and were reasonably informed about like calories and shit this year and then they were the guys who weren't. And I think it's unfortunate that that's the case. But it's still true nonetheless. So which category were you in? Hopefully if you're watching this, I mean, especially if you're watching this, the cardio video you've been on your shit. But you know, the results will show. The guys who did that odds are they looking. And the guys who didn't odds are they don't. You know, it's kind of just a, uh, it's like a give-and-take. All right, if you can clock in that many hours of just elevated heart rate, combined with some reasonable weight training, plus a little bit of diet intervention, even if it's just like making sure you get your protein in per day. You can have completely different results than if you had done none of that at all. I mean, I can't overstate the jump from going from no gym, like zero, nothing to just five days a week or four days a week of, uh, like some weight training. Not even like the most stringuous crazy shit in the world. I mean, just like regular, uh, you can say even casual workouts, like just, you know, getting active. I'm talking like the same level of intensity as if you were to just grab a set of dumbbells. If you were at, uh, like the grocery store or something, then you crumb like kind of as a joke a little bit. Doing volume like that compared to zero is massive. Now, of course, doing like real intense hard working sets from more casual, just getting exposed to the weight sets. That's also massive jump. So, what that tells me is, I want to be as close to the max of training intensity as possible. So, just going to keep you the best results. But, you know, we see it every year. I mean, gyms are going to start being extra packed for maybe a month. And they're going to clear out a little bit. And the guys who stay, right, and sort of break that pattern. They're the ones who next year are no longer going to be saying, all right, let's get after it this new year's. A new year, new me, they're the guys who are now going to be saying, uh, shit. The January's coming around. Better start lifting it five to avoid the crowd or whatever else, you know. Like, it feels like it's a long time. But really, like, look at back. I mean, it's kind of just a fucking blank. You know, I mean, look back in the last three months. If you had a little bit of a portion of time where you're like, okay, I probably could have done my cardio this morning. And then you didn't do it. I mean, odds are you're not still riding the high of, like, oh, I don't know how to do my cardio. Nice. Like, the the reward from not doing it. It's like that. Like, it's enough. Now, in the moment it feels pretty good. Right. I mean, if you're, if it's even not really interested in the cardio, you're not really feeling that you're feeling just straight tired. It's like skipping class, you know, you get this little relief of like, oh, shit. I'm not going to do it. Oh, and that doesn't last. That's over right then. You know, any amount of time passes, that feeling is gone. And not only that, but you're not basically behind. Because time is constantly flowing. So it's almost like you're always subject to inflation. So if every day you're not getting at least a tiny, inksy bit of head be at the working out, be at the whatever, then you fucking fall in behind. Because it's almost like you're fast forwarding time. And if you're the exact same dude that you were in the beginning of the year, then what you really do this year, right? I mean, what are you going to be able to look back on it, say, oh, shit. Even on the crazy side of things, if you didn't want to stick with the working out at all, you can least say, yeah, I was a real workout in that 2024. Got over that really quick, but at least you had something you could say, like, yeah, I did that for a while. Not a lot of people even get to that step. But who's a, it's not my place to judge, you know, but I can't say this. If I were in somebody else's shoes and they weren't doing the cardio, and I guess I would be the one not doing my cardio, I'd want to get on it. But that's coming from my perspective. Obviously in my fucking, you know, Jim Ratten, not, I'd say, I'd say probably beyond Jim, not, I'd say, probably Jim Attect. So, you know, take that with a grain of salt. But this morning, let's get cardio done, do a little post, cardio check in, then just getting the card drive back home. Now much to say, because this is kind of making up for the fact that, uh, this is, this is just making up for the fact that there's no lifts yesterday. So every time I'm, uh, every time I'm traveling out somewhere, for whatever he's not a student, you know, busy in that day, we can have a workout. I'll just place in some little cardio talking for you. That's torturous as it might be for some guys to see winner shred of thund day 60 cardio. I'm, uh, out of all, out of everything that I talked about, the cardio is not going anywhere. Cardio macros, I guess I got four pillars of the CM style. Cardio macros intensity, consistency. I think it all kind of boils down to one of these four topics. But that further ado, how about we just jump to after cardio and see how we're looking two months deep in this dieted face. All right, so after what I would say was a highly successful cardio session, 49 minutes, 630 calories. Now, the time is right. The calories, I mean, that's a great of like how hard you went. But it's kind of hard to think. Because, I mean, your metabolism and your, I guess the word is like your efficiency as a guy doing the cardio, the, the machine doesn't take any that into account. So it's a good representation of how hard you went on like a scale of zero to, you know, whatever. But I never end up doing the math of like, okay, I ate this much food today. I'm going to burn this many calories and this much cardio and like that's not really how I end up doing it. You know, like 30 minutes of cardio and I'll just kind of ramp it up, time wise, a little bit intensity wise over time. And then whatever my deficit bulk, I mean, its calories are like that just stays the same. Like I don't try to do all of this addition and subtraction by what my activity level was there. It's, I feel like that's, that's kind of too much. It's like cardio and the lift should be a staple of the days. So I don't consider that like extra energy that I'm burning on a day by day basis. That's just the amount of energy I'd burn. So I mean, I guess if you skip your cardio a lot, you might have to take that into account. But if you're doing it consistently, I wouldn't worry about trying to do the math. Just make sure you do it hit a good number for me at like if there were no numbers, if I was just on an old school cardio bike that was like big metal flywheel with a little plastic like dowel that you tighten or loosened it affect the resistance. I just said it where I could spin it and I guess the pace I'm used to and then by 10 minutes in, I should start to feel a little drips on my stomach or so and then by 30, I should have a good amount of sweat. This is extra. Like my whole, this shirt is now freaking too tonk as the old torso is drenched. But usually I don't get this sweaty. That's only when I'm doing extra long sessions like right now. You know, because the deep I get into this dieting phase, I'm changing two factors, two variables which are helping me continue to get linear. For one, I want to increase my activity level, more cardio and I want to decrease my calorie intake. And by doing both of those at the same time, it kind of gives you the best of both worlds. If you do no extra cardio, then you really have to fucking starve yourself. If you're being a bit more active on a day by day basis, you get a little bit more food. So that's why I can't help but like get curious why people aren't doing more cardio. Because the more cardio you do, the more food you get ate and not gain weight. There's a value of the burning it off sort of effect. So even if you don't want to be a die hard like, you know, diving, that case. If you are just more active in general, your baseline level of leanness is going to decrease. But enough of cardio, you happen. Let's run through some classics here. Get a little torso, check in at day 60. Is this day 60 or 61? Well, need away. Oh my gosh. Oh, goodness. Let's see what else is there. Not freaking much. Yeah, yeah. Usually all the fancy stuff. Kind of like, man to see. I don't know, that's more so for like, yeah, and to diving. But as you leaner, I mean, more poses will start to look more cool looking, right? I mean, even some shit just like, oh, goodness. Well, cardio complete. I'm starting to see a bit of shit. I mean, starting to see a little bit of like, abvane, just like creeping up down the middle. So yeah, definitely making some fucking moves that last wise. But I'm going to go up, do some more cable crunches or not some more, but do some cable crunches. I'll talk to Marks and see sit in arms up there. And for you, I will see you in the freaking car. All right, so Marks curl in in the bathroom in the background. So when it comes to abs, I mean, I've done a zillion different kind of ab workouts, like, all the gymnastics, all the diving stuff, very core focus. So I mean, I've done all the leg lifts and the crunches and the leg, especially like the V-ups and everything in planks. But, you know, I actually getting in to controlling my own workouts. I'm not doing those anymore, right? I'm going to treat my abs just like I treat any other muscle. So I'm not going to sit here and do a chest workout of like sets of a hundred pushups. Now, in an athletic training style, you're going to want to look at it a different way. But in a muscle building style, what works? Working sets reasonably loaded. And the way that I like that the most is something like this, kneeling, grab a rope, grab like a V-bar, grab anything, you can get a good grip on, and then just crunch. And the more you do it, I think it might be a, I think it's good I need to start reasonably light because then you can start to build a good connection of like feeling like you're actually pulling your rib cage down to your hips. Because that's all your abs are doing right? That's just that big chunk of fucking muscle crunching your torso inward. And once you got a good feeling of that, just spam these, man. And it doesn't take much. I used to go through periods where every lift or every morning after cardio, I would do some abs training like this, but they get so much work, just like living plus if you're a gym rat, you're going to be fudging your abs all the time in all your poses. They just don't really go away. Though I do an uptraining a little more and a little more in a dieting phase. And half of that is sort of bro science, old bodybuilder logic of you harden your abs into getting into compensation shape. And nine times out of freaking 10, all the old school bodybuilding logic ends up being proven right later. So, you know, I'm sure we're going to see the Jeff Nippard video, the scientific reason why ab training in a deficit is actually more, right? It doesn't change the fact that the shit's still true once you've got a study explaining it. So, all I'm going to do is camp out here. Do, I don't know, maybe seven or eight sets. You can probably do the stack once you get into it, but don't go too heavy that you start feeling like you're using your lats and you're like, I want to work my abs and that's all. Alright, There we go. It's been a minute since we had a little desk meal talk. So we got four pounds of ground beef thrown into a damn pot. Low. Give it a stir every couple of minutes. And then the real tricky part is just straining it out. So if you get a... I don't know. If you use the lid and close the lid on itself and then flip it around into some kind of strainer bowl, that's probably your best bet. But what I usually do is I just kind of smash all the ground beef into the bottom corner kind of an angle so that if I flip it sort of sideways, I can strain it all off without having it topple over and just splash hot like you just a beef juice all the free go over the place. But that's probably the biggest extent of my meal prep so far, just because it's the easiest because the protein, you know, not even a ton of carbs. I don't need a big ass bowl or like a rice cooker going all at once. Like if I were to have all my carbs per like for the entire day right now in rice, it'd be less than half of this bowl worth. So the only thing I really want to have prep is the protein. And having the ground beef right there, it's kind of just the best of both worlds because like you're saving yourself the time of having to cook individual portions at once. And you know, with anything else, there's almost no point prepping it. I guess like chicken turkey, if you're into a... If that's one of your main sources, but like something like egg whites, if I've got an egg white based meal, I'm just going to make that right then. I've seen guys prep the egg whites and it seems a little bit wild. But half a pound of ground beef, some low sugar ketchup, low fat mayonnaise, mustard, dill relish. It kind of gives me the essence of a hamburger, but no carbs from the no bun. A little bit from the ketchup, so even though it's low sugar, it's not no sugar. So this puts me in about 50 grams of protein. I think it was eight grams of carbs and then with the low fat mayonnaise, about 18 grams of fats. And that's not much, you know. I mean that only puts me like, like this isn't even a 500 calorie meal. So at my rate of consumption, I get to have four of these plus some snacks in between throughout the entire day. It's pretty filling. So one more tip I'll leave you with before you know, get back to this meal and we get back to it. Or I guess you can get back to whatever you were doing is I would highly recommend eat your protein first. Like if you're really doubting down to the point where you've got, uh, well, I guess I leverage my carbs in weird ways because like this isn't really low carb meal. I'm going to have a higher carb meal later. But if I've got a bowl or some portions of protein and then carbs, specifically be it rice, potatoes, anything, I'm going to try to eat the majority of the protein first. One more filling. And then you've already got this sort of like innate sensation from having food in your stomach. Like, okay, you've got some food in here. Finishing off with the treat, right? I mean, if you got rice with like some kind of like zero sugar, sweet teriyaki sauce, so I understand something like that's pretty sweet. Like that's good food. You get to eat that having already, you know, eating the fluff or whatever your main meal was. Just more filling, right? It really is having, well, you know, dessert after dinner. Now the dieting phase of things. That's not it's calling like just rice dessert. But you know, I really do think it plays into it. And I see a lot of studies about that. I mean, I'm not looking at these studies, of course, but I'm saying like I see it referenced where it's like, you know, your blood sugar releases much more flatlined. If you have protein first and then your carbs and half of that is probably just due to the fact that like when you eat any food at all, it's going to trigger an insulin release. So if you're eating your protein first, your body's already shooting out some insulin because it's got to send all these nutrients across your freaking cells. And then you eat your carbs. You're already in a state of like utilization of whatever those calories are. But that might begin a little specific compared to the regular like calories in calories out. Depth of things that we're, that we usually talk about. But I'm not joking, man. I mean, there's so much like, you can almost say like cheating the system that you can do when you've got a good grasp on how you're dieting, how the amount of foods that you're reading affects all sorts of end results. You know, I mean, if you're a die hard like health nut, like if you're watching the dude who's trying to like reverse his aging and he's like he's got this perfect sleep score for a year straight and that sort of shit like if you're looking at those sort of metrics like making sure all your levels and everything or within certain ranges, the diet is going to be a pretty damn important part of that. And then for us more on like a macro-scopic level, if I want to get bigger, I got to make sure the fuels there. And if I want to get leaner, I got to make sure that not too much fuel is there. You know, only you could think of yourself all me in pretty healthy. And then you got a big ass bowl of like salad with like Italian dressing, 30 grams of fats and then you've got like you know like a steak and potatoes, you think you're eating healthy and you just had a 1200 calorie meal and you're having a couple of those per day. Like it's not all about specific foods, the amounts like the pure calorie values. You gotta look into that a little bit like the taking one step further and getting into that sort of tracking, I promise results are to be gained from having done it. But that's a, you can't be forced, you know. I've said this a couple times. You can leave the lifter to the macro tracker. You can't force them to use it. But going into going into 2025, if you haven't really taken the calorie side of things, the diet side of things seriously, I'd recommend. But I'm going to sit here. Eat this, have another meal or two and then I got legs tonight. So, I'll see you for that tomorrow.

There we go. Finally back into the finally back into the regular swing of things. Going places, if I can throw it's the after game, you know. Time zones change and you get a days where you just travel around. So you either get a first you live first. A little unprepared, potentially underfed, or saved it for later after day of being a little bit extra inflamed. And then odds are you're probably just better off turning that into a rest day. It's a lot of angles to look at there. But finally back, carb intake for the day so far, quite low. I think I've only had like 60. Little higher in the fats. I had to have left over. It's a grand beef. I finished off basically everything I was still in the fridge before I made some extra ground beef last night. But yeah, perfectly prepared for a leg day. At least I will be once I get this pre-workout consumed in the caffeine. Kind of working so I can magic. And the reason I haven't yet is because... ...legs is a long lift. And if I already, with most of these workouts, I end up drinking the pre-workout. Like obviously beforehand. But like if I'm about to go do chest, I get straight into it. And the workout only takes like 40-something minutes. So if the gym is 20 minutes away, I'll drink it at the house, drive, but it's how I get there warm it up. And then the main component of that workout is already begun. But with legs, I've got to do hamstrings first. Mmmmm. Oh, excuse me. But gotta get hamstrings out of the way first. Or I might make tonight a little bit of the back and forth of hamstrings and quads. And we'll just have to see. But it's a bit longer. And two big muscle groups. Something like chest, I'm only going to do seven total work in the sets. But something like legs. Hamstrings and quads together. Takes a little bit more. Takes a little more adding. So usually I like to sort of delay my caffeine release by drinking the pre-workout right when I get started. Because I don't need to be fucking, you know, steam that on my mind for hamstring curls. I want to feel the full effects of the caffeine. And some of the legit performance of the handstand effects. Like it does have a bit of a pain tolerance sort of something or rather going on. You're literally going to be able to go harder fully caffeinated. But. It's just. I don't want it to run out. All right. So I feel like if I drink it. Now it's fully kicked in by the first set of hamstrings. It's like a metinol time energy high in the beginning. And then I reach sort of a low. Right is on about to start quads. The hard part. It just doesn't work for me. And you might think to yourself, okay, say I'm one of quads and hamstrings together is too much. Why not split them? I think about that. But. It's like I could either save hamstrings for a separate day and just do quads only. But then I got to throw hamstrings in with like a completely unrelated muscle group, which just doesn't really feel right for me. Or I got to turn my leg days into leg two days where. Oh. Look. Excuse me. Where I've got hamstrings in like the morning of the evening. And then quads at night. It just. I don't see it. You know. And the reason I think that doing hamstrings at least. More bias towards the beginning of the workout for legs if not just in the beginning of legs. Like same just finish all quads first then you're done and then do hamstrings. Well hamstrings like it takes some out of you. But it doesn't take everything out. Like after my last set of quads, I want that to be it. Because I don't want to have to like think to myself okay. I want to leave some juice of tank for this next one. And if I've got a full on hamstring workout afterwards then that subconscious voice telling you, okay well you still got hamstrings and inches of work. So eventually I think I've come to the conclusion like days are just meant to be fucking hard. No way to get around. But that's cool. That's what gives to the its value you know. It was easy. It really, it was quite good. Beware. Wow. We do not take these yons for lack of enthusiasm. Let's give me a second to read just to regular day schedule. But either way I can say with certainty that before the top of the next hour. Actually the top of the next hour would be in one. One minute right. But at the time I roll up it shouldn't take me more than about an hour or a half to completely finish legs. And even then that's given me a little bit of extra time. Because when I'm guiding down, I'm not doing it. It's saying the huge set to like press where I need six minutes in between sets to recover. You know, it can be pretty moderate with it you know. So I think this should only be more like an hour. But I can go back and look at like the times that the first set I hit record. And then the last one when I got actually seen just really hell on. Did this lift take you know I don't have to just keep a watch on there. A time or a go on there and everything goes like that. But I can say with certainty there will be some extra veins in a pumpage in the lower body. I like to switch. We'll just have to switch for the pump check to see what extent actually. Actually a curve. But no more gentlemen. That would just make this really like they get started. So movement number one. Not that freaking heavy honestly combined with the fact that this stack is just insane. Like a feeling I could do this stack full stack single leg would be a look up as Instagram gym damn. Probably the crazy hamstrings. And I think in the world would be a pretty app description. But either way I don't even have to stack. I don't even. I don't even do a quarter of the stack. I'm doing what is that? 15% 25 pounds single leg burnout style slow controlled with a momentary squeeze on top. That's the plan here. And then you know next my piece of heavier RDLs are laying curls. But this is a good start. Because it's a light. I don't have to take a while to really warm up. There's no danger like physically. And then also it's just like again. Good opener. That's the best way I can figure this out. So left side first. And then we can go from there. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Let's see one more same weight. And then I got to have it. I do in curls back to back like seated and then laying, laying and then whatever. Let's do Artiels first. So standing curls, Artiels, finish with laying curls. And then move on to whatever movement number one for quarts ends up being. That's the game plan. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Let's see some dumbbell already. I'll next. 85 should be just about the sweet spot. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Oh, goodness. One more than I'm saying. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. It'll be it for hands. No. No. No. No. No. Let's start some like extensions. Let's start with five reps on the left. Five on the right. Five on the right. Five on the right. Again, Very similar to the benefit of starting with the single leg standing curl. I don't have to go monstrously heavy on this to make it a good opening set. And I give the benefit from getting my quads completely warmed. Meas everything else. So when I move on to a press next. I'll be ready to go because if I were to jump straight to a press on the first set. I would still want to send it like extension anyway and get warmed up. So I want to feel like while I'm here, I may as well just get quads started anyway. And you know, very contrary to what I used to think. I don't lose that much strength. You know, I'm sure my like one rep ability will decrease after T set the leg extensions. But in working set ranges. I mean, really I just feel fresh. You know, even when I'm going extra crazy heavy like doing a couple sets of leg extensions to value your first. Maybe it just doesn't hit the same fibers or in the same layer or something, but I feel just as thick and strong. And twice if not like three times as warm. I mean, it's a pretty even fucking balance. So let's get to start in these. We can't have nasty. I don't need these to be super slow and controlled. I can say that for later than the lift when I won't be able to go as heavy. Shit. Alright. I want that chip. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think one or two more just like that. And then move on. What to? I said the price for both of us. Whatever I think will feel the best. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. One more. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Let's go press something. Alright. I'm going to have some restraint and just six or four plate squats here. I think I want to try some sets of 10. So 10 reps with this like quick reps. They're going to be hard. But almost similar style to the leg extensions like those weren't two absolute failure. Okay. I can still probably bust out some extra partials. So I'm going to see how I share with just some lower, well, it's not lower volume because instead of just doing one crazy set, I'm planning for more like at least two maybe three-ish slightly longer sets. So the work loads a little more even. Because if I try to smack around five plates or anything heavier for like eight, and then hit complete failure, I'm going to tweak my shit, man. I'm not going to say the dieting down sucks. And it's not because of the difficulty of dieting. It's because I'm fucking pulling back on the gas in the train. But that's just the nature of it. Right? Everything comes in and out, getting in the air, abs and flows. I'm just going to be a clean, get ready for this. Yeah. Yeah. Mmm. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, a few more dollars sets. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, shit. What am I going to do? Oh, shit. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Holy crap. I can't see the whole thing on the screen. That one's a good, freaking three. It's quite heavy enough that it's hard, but not so heavy that I feel like I pulled anything or I'm going to feel it in the morning in a bad way. 45-year-old, but dining down, I mean, I am trying to reduce my injury frequency, which I have gotten better at, you know, it's going to take a little while for me to lose the ego-lifter chocolate melt-grinker cinnamon toast crunch eater sort of, uh, I've got, but no, I am improving, like, even my thought process about how I'm going to go about this next bulletin phase, much different, and it's not only like trying to fit the box of like, how should you body build that like I'm here and from everybody else, not to say that everyone's wrong or anything like that, like I've gotten so much like denser information from having like the outreach and the response that I've gotten now, but it's more so just if you're looking at your own results and then like, if you try a new shit long enough, you notice this works, this doesn't, and then you start picking all the shit that works, and losing all the shit that doesn't, then you know, you can put two guys and you completely separate room or completely separate fucking world, and if they both have the same goal, you know, let's say Musa Billy, they're probably going to come to the similar conclusions over time, right? I mean, it's, uh, it's like funny enough, there definitely is a science student where some stuff is objectively going to help you improve at a faster rate, and then some stuff might seem like it, but you're really just, you know, you're peddling with that movement, so that's where, um, extras, I mean, I'm always extra excited about this shit, every bulking phase I get smarter about it, every dieting phase I get more diligent with it, because I got to be bigger and like, or I don't have to be bigger, I physically am bigger, and it takes, it's like a bit trickier to back off on the calories, it's like, over time, all these little things are starting to improve, and I'm getting really excited just, like, I'm getting so fucking mad on myself here. Let's just focus on this last finish, you're set, and we can talk about this after going to the post on. 5555 in a slow, squeezing fashion in the beginning, and then I'll translate that, they're all switch over to some more factors to bendler. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Go. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's enough. Let's go find some airspace. That was good. Hamstrings obliterated, quads highly stimulated. I would not say obliterated. And then now let's just see humpwise what's fucking resulted. And even just stand in here like if somebody gave me a behind the knee push, I would probably crumple. And that's I'm not asking for it either. But let's let's see how they look. So this would be, yeah, I mean ship. This is just fully pumped. So let's just pop one pat leg out. So veins are beginning to freaking up here. Slowly but surely. Let's up the zoom and you touch. And there we go. Oh, for ready this far. Yeah, perfect. Oh my gosh. Oh, that breath will just make me fucking lightheaded. But yeah, man. Okay. So you're now we're cooking with gas. Especially this left quad. That is some detail which will only get more and more like an interesting. The leaner have become. And there's some on the right side. But it looks like the left is a little bit more spoiled with veins and feathering. My right quad's a little bigger up in this top quadrant, which I think is to do with with the diving background. Because every time I, I've said this a couple times, every time you go to do an approach for diving. And this is for years on end. A little step, a little step, a little step, a little step. And then a big jump all on this leg. So it got a little more pressing development when I was younger. But let's zoom back in and get a few more. Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. Even just fucking standing up and saving me going. Let's see how they look back here. Oh, oh, here. Well, I've directed how that we, I know we pop a squat and discuss it. So I would say that was a good lift. Kind of a basic, a post-lift chat. Like I'm managing it if I can soccer game and coaches like good game guys. And that was the end of it. I mean, that's one I'm fucking aiming for. Like as detailed as I could get into it and like I could have a tracking app where it's like, okay, make sure you get three mezzo repsets and three of your heaviest pressing and RPE12. And then four back offsets of 10 reps and reserve, like, you know, for some guys, if that clicks for you, like if you're looking at these lifts in a very, like objective numerical approach, gets you going, makes you train harder. Then do that, obviously. I'm not saying, I mean, that whole show is talking about over there on the last, um, instead of leg extension, so like you got all this shit at your disposal. Use it in such a way that you can improve the gains and the training that you do. Then whatever fucking method you come up with that ends up working for you, if it's working, that's the fucking truth in the pudding. What you're doing is good. But what I'm trying to get at is if a real like detailed approach like that is what gets your fucking engines firing. Do it. But for me, at least, you know, you know, I don't really like having a, like it never gets me, like excited to have a just training log recording all the sets numbers I do, which in a way I do, because I got all these videos I can look back on. But that's more just for like, how did I look back then? How was I training back then? Like, I'm not looking at it at a set by set basis. Because for me, my approach is always okay. Every muscle groups workout has a couple different ways to go about it. Quads, leg extensions, pressing, sometimes leg pressing versus like squatting. That's a little too factors split there. That's basically it. Hamstrings, artyos, and leg curls. They get a little activation on your pressing during quads, but that's all there is to it. So in my mind, it's like, okay, I'm doing quads, I'm doing hamstring. I want to hit them in those two ways or have any ways I have available back. You have pull down, throws, pull overs, and sometimes some variations in between chest pressing flies. So it's like I can net it down to these few staple kinds of movements. And then I just make sure I do some of each go hard, you know, do some heavy ones, do some light ones, do some fast ones, do some slow ones. And as long as the effort and intensity was there, and I'm pumped and fatigue at the end of it, then for my perspective, I'm going to say good set, go home, feel good. I know when I sit down in the car and fucking like cool down and like scroll my phone for a second. I'm going to feel pretty satisfied. Mainly from those sets of Smith squats, those were really good. At least I can feel cool. And then, you know, I get to go home, he's on front and no, that the training I did today is going to count towards my overarching goals and I'm working on it. So it takes a minute to get that feedback because if you've never lifted before, you have to do a training routine with no results until those results start to, you know, make themselves apparent to you. And then it's simply trial and error, you know, because nobody has your exact routine. Nobody has your body. Nobody has your food preferences or like, well, genetic, I mean, nobody has your genetics specifically. That's the whole point of them, right? Every dude is completely fucking different. So, you know, don't feel like he have to fall directly into this cookie cutter approach that everybody else does. And half the time you do that anyway, you're going to get the results that everybody else gets, you know? So, right, don't feel fucking spooked to do something that not anybody else is really doing purely because you're like, oh, I want to, I want to, what they're going to fucking think if I do, if I make any noise on this set or if I do, I set a 60 squats to do. You are in your own fucking world and everybody else is in theirs, right? So which one do you think is going to be most important for you to take fucking control of? But I'm, if I did a blood sugar test right now, I bet I'm running a little low. I haven't done that lift with no intercarb or anything else. So now I feel like I'm just starting to fucking ramble. But either way, sweet lift, veins out the wazoo. Let's get in the car and head back to the crib. I feel really good about today's like day. Now, this is most certainly an all's well that ends well situation. But I didn't, I didn't reference it before because, you know, word of mouth is very powerful, right? Like, do you think something to yourself a little bit, you know, whatever? But if you say shit out loud to yourself, it just becomes the fucking truth, you know? So once I parked it, I was sitting on the pre-workout and sitting kind of screw on my phone for a little bit, just getting distracted. I almost, almost freaking fell asleep at the car. Like, I was a little tired from today with everything else. But that's half of the reason why I was so giddy at the end, or quads, well at the end of the lift, but at the end of quads specifically, because complete 180, like once hamstrings was moving, I was basically into it. And then those sets of Smith machine squads really got me excited, because it just, it gets me going to do the squads. Like, I feel, um, I feel like I'm missing out when I don't. So I think that's where I got to be a bit smarter about not going too crazy, heavy with them, and doing like that tonight, where it was like a moderate weight, not pushing it to the absolute extreme, because, I think, fuck man, how am I expected to do the same workouts and recovery the exact same way? Now I'm like 20, like load 2000 calories compared to, like, you know, more than double literally like 5,000 from months ago. I'm starting to get it a little bit more goodness, but yeah, that was a good, that was a good flip-brain. The music I was playing was getting me going to, I love, um, crap what's this name? I don't want to say it wrong, so I'll just say what it was. And get a look it up, it's like, it's called an epic concept album. It's like all, uh, it's kind of Greek mythology, yes, can whatever, like, sort of, uh, it just musical kind of song style shit, but it's like tells a story too, which that's half the reason why I like some specific songs, for specific sets, like whenever I do a crazy set of squats, I would always, like, there's like this attack on Titan edit that I like playing in my mind, or, well, not in my mind, I'm playing it on my phone, but it's one that I like picks specifically, because it really gets me going, I'm like, you know, some dragon ball shed, or, like, some rock lead music, and it's not just because, like, it's from a high band of the edit, that's, that's, that's, that's going. It's like the music is hitting me on multiple different levels of excitement, because it's like a cool song. It's got, oh, you know, I got it playing loud, and then it's also, like, bringing back the story about whatever it's talking about, you know, like some rock lead training, some dragon ball style shit, like, those songs, I think, play into the training so well, because now you're like, envisioning yourself as a fictional, not envisioning yourself as them, but like, you know, taking this hype from this fictional kind of story and bringing it into reality, you know, which some guys that might sound like crazy fucking corny, but if I got a badass, like, goku song, edit plan, and he's about to go super Saiyan 3, and I got, like, damn, you're 500 pounds in my back. That gets me pretty excited, you know, and I don't mean, like, or bitterly, like, oh, this is going to be fun. I mean, like, heart pumping, like, you get this sort of, I mean, there's no better word than excitement than, like, hype about your lifts, which totally separates you from somebody who's working at completely calm, you know? I mean, I see guys, there's some guys when they're doing their sets, like, they make a thing out of it, they never, they don't make it face at all, like, they're almost like, well, if you guys are making, why are you guys making faces? I can still train hard and not make a face, like, I mean, you might be right, I'm not saying these guys aren't going hard or anything, but it's like, I want to be excited about these sets. On a set by set basis, I don't want to be sitting here, like, you know, talking to the guy I'm next to, during a working set, like, that's when I want to be really, like, in the zone, you know? Like, I couldn't care less about having my music playing in between, like, between sets. I don't mind some chatting, you know? I could sit in, like, just be, like, totally goofing, whatever, but those 10, 20 seconds before set of squats, before set or whatever, like, that's a couple big breaths. I got whatever song I got planned. Okay. Kind of center my mind, like, I'm not even, I didn't, like, before some of those sets of squats, I don't think I was really thinking about anything specific. I was just like, okay. Grab the bar, give it like a shake, like, that just gets me fucking going, man. So less than learn for me, still squat, but back off on the weight. Still squat, but none of this six plate mumbo jumbo. Alright, let's be a bit more considerate to my lower body's health. And really what I mean by that is, like, if I go too heavy on the pressing, sometimes I, uh, I'm not even sometimes, like, literally recently, I'm doing some heavy leg press. And of course, this is, like, heavy leg days, row, row, row, like, back to back to the point where, like, I could tell, like, I could pull something in my upper quadra and a little. And when I say pull, I don't mean, like, a big, like, tail. Just like a minor, a little thing. But enough where, like, I could still feel the next leg day, and even maybe attach the day after that, where it's like, it's enough where I got to take action, or, I guess you could say, inaction to prevent it from going any further. So that's my, that's the line I made before, right? Because obviously, you're putting yourself at risk of injury. Every time you come to the gym, you know? Some guys, perfect form, perfect everything. They're doing a normal weight that they can do. And for whatever reason boom, pectair, like we rare, usually there are warning signs, but you never fucking know, man. So to an extent, I do think, okay, well, if you don't want to have a risk in her, then don't come to the gym, right? But there is a balance where you look at somebody like fuck. That's the same weight that guys been doing for months. He's totally fine with that. That should not have happened. Whoops. And that's maybe, honestly, that's maybe 1% of the time. That there's no real, like, cause, it's just random accident. Usually, and by usually, I mean, 90, some to percent of the time, it's I'm going to heavy. I'm under recovered. I wouldn't say over trained. I would usually say under recovered. Didn't get enough water. The hydrated, warmed up too fast. Didn't actually get a good amount of, like, I guess you could just say, activation before, whatever that working set was. And then they tried to jump the gun with a weight. Or did these reps with a heavy weight way too fast? And I say, they, that's a pretty exact example for me. I mean, I just pulled my chest a while ago, doing, like, four plates on Smith. I felt crazy strong, but I was doing them, like, like, I basically, like, dropped it for the top of my car to the bottom. Like, it's totally fucking 80. So, that's the thing, okay, that's, I'm putting myself in harm's way. So, you've got a back off from there, but I still want to train hard enough, where I'm in this green zone of intensity and stimulus. So, I'm, I'm getting the better gauge for that. Usually I call that the lifter sense, right? I say, it's like, okay, this is, this is a good set. Everything is in order. I'm warm, I'm fresh, I'm rested. This is good. I can go all out without worrying about, much of anything, right? And then, if any of those sort of prep steps are off, then that's usually one of a little bit of an alarm system will go off, where I'm like, okay, my knees feel way more tender than they usually would on this set of like extensions, what a warming up. And if they did, then that would have been my cue. No squats at all today, just stick with like, like extensions. You know, don't put myself in harm's way. So, it's, it's a hard thing to say, right? I mean, I'm, I'm guilty of it, too. It took me a little while to get it, and I'm still working on getting it. But it's, it's hard to say, you don't have to lift that heavy. So, the guy who's like, you know, really obsessed with getting bigger and getting stronger, but there is value to both sides. Obviously, you got to push it hard enough where you're giving yourself new stimulus to grow from, but you can't overdo it to the point where you're going to fuck yourself up. And instead of, you know, making progress forward, you're taking two steps back, three steps back, or, I mean, worst case scenario, you had some crazy catastrophic. I don't even want to think about it. Then you could really screw yourself up. So, there's like, there's a balance to, you know, and a lot of it's just like, common sense, but I'd say even more of it just kind of comes to training experience, you know. You're not going to, what's the phrase, and I'm going to make a mom of that break in a few eggs? It seems kind of stupid, right? Obviously, you have to break them to make it. What's, well, you give them, I'm saying there. But, yeah, highlighted point of that lift was, even if you feel a little bit off on the way in, once you catch a free workout in your system, once you've got some warm ups that started, and once you, once you get your music playing, at least for me. That gives me a good, good, good, good. I can have a good ass lift that I can feel extra good about afterward. Because now it's not only I had a good lift, but I had a good lift where I went into it, not really feel in the best, you know. Didn't I have a rattlesnake bend over blood walking into the gym today, but I definitely did when I left. And that cow voyage analogy is mainly because of like three seasons deep in the yellowstone now. You guys were right in the comments that I was watching, land man, and if somebody said that the same guys, when we yell at stone made land man, then we got me a little curious. But either way, I needed to go home as top plats were there. I feel like a winner. I could eat a big old bowl of ground beef with some probably just some barbecue sauce. I've been doing these bowls where it's like ketchup mustard, low fat mayonnaise, relish. So I mean, once you chew on it, you may as well be the hamburger, but I'm going to see no bun, but I think I'll just do a big bowl of ground beef. Barbecue sauce, some kind of carb, at least as many as I, goodness, as many as I've got room for, and then I get to have a good night's rest. So just in a mile, hopefully chess will reflect the same amount of vain improvements that legs had to night compared to last night. So I guess we will have to see. And then another another thing I kind of didn't really reference. I had a rest day yesterday. Matt, anti-freaking resting. Half of that was just because we were, you know, me and Mark were traveling. So it kind of, it would have been a 10 o'clock lift, I'm like, not the best sleep. So really, like I was saying, second ago, the preparation steps were off. Usually, cue to back off. But still, I think some rest days are going to have to be implemented a little bit more, especially as I get a bit steeper into this diet. But I think it's not so, well, actually, I guess, I was about to say it's not so much your over training, but you're under-recovering. But really getting down lean-wise, like near, basically getting into trep, level lean. Like, over training. It's a little bit of an aspect I'm going to have to get to it. So, not going to, obviously, I got to approach this time frame of lifting a little differently. Then I usually would, like, a bad-ass, bulking phase. And, well, not that I'm too worried about anything, but it's definitely definitely a different challenge than what I'm used to. But that's the cool part. It makes an interesting thing. So, you guys all I got. I'm excited for some chest tomorrow. And then, I have a sneaking suspicion. I'm going to sneak in suspicion that me and you are going to be in the grocery cart. Oh, yes, I'm not going to be in the grocery cart. You are. Sooner than you might think, sooner than you might expect. No promises, but we'll see. Because I got to, my cupboard, or my pantry, is running low. So, I will see you for guaranteed chest tomorrow. And potentially a little something else. But we'll just have to see that.

It's getting free and cold out here, man. Not so cold today, but the given take of it being... What's temperature is that outside? 48 extra wet, so it's like what's worse? Colder, dry or slightly warmer, you know, from rainy kind of whatever. I'm not to turn on these intros into a freaking weather forecast. Oh, yeah, not to turn into a weather forecast. So, playing for a day with chest, don't nuts in a controlled manner. Go crazy! Within reason, my plan for that is some kind of pressing, and I might even change up a little bit further and start with some cable pressing. I think a lot of something there. But I don't just have to see. I got a warm-up, give my roti-to-cuffs going, a little bit of back warm-up, chest, shoulders, triceps, forearms. Because, I mean, I got a lot of load that's being put through multiple chains of different systems. So chest has my longest warm-up. I'm not going to sit here and jump straight on like a leg curl, and then I'm ready. Like for hands, you know, chest is a little more methodical with that warm-up, we can't afford it. Which I've changed a few things to. I've been tucking my elbows in a little bit more. When I press, I used to bench like arms almost parallel. Like bar, not at like neck level, but a little bit below. That was my efforts to focus on my upper chest, which, I'm not saying that doesn't work per se. But so much torque in whatever kind of internal pressure on my roti-to-cuffs. I'd have a crunchy shoulder like every couple of months. I mean, that's just sucks. So that's just me being stupid with a training tweaking myself. But ever since I switched to pressing with my elbows a little further in, you know, not like a close grip bench or anything. But, you know, like a little bit more than normal, as well as a much more extensive roti-to-cuff warm-up phase. That my shoulders have been good, right? Not on the, you know, the fake canry wood, but so far, that extra warming-up phase for the roti-to-cuffs and, you know, whatever kind of internal muscles are in there. We're trying a little bit trickier to get moving just from regular pressing. That has been doing me good. That has been doing me quite freaking good. So, after some pressing, you know, just bounce around. There's, uh, yeah, I'll see. Maybe some Smith went to Marty fatigue. Some cable fly action at the end of it. It's really, I mean, I'm seeing this yesterday. I'm trying to hit a couple different, like, styles of movements. Heavy pressing, lighter squeezing pressing. Cable flies, some stretch focus flies, some squeeze focus flies. Yeah, and there's a couple other little variations in there as well, but it's not, uh, if I get most of those moving, then I'm really just concerned, making sure each set I go hard. I'm working towards getting a fucking pump. And at the end of it, it's good. There's not a, I don't feel the need to, like, track every weight and every set and everything else, because, you know, if you know you're pushing it at least close to as hard as you can on the regular, you know, most of your sets are actually going pretty hard. Then you're basically good, you know, like the idea of progressive overloaded is, okay, I did this weight last week for 10 reps. Now I want to do it for 11. Or now I want to do, like, like a slightly heavier weight for 10, and, you know, overload the sets intensity. But I really feel like if you're trying to gun it on the regular, then, for every set, at least most of the heavier ones, if you approach it with the mentality of, like, okay, I want to go as hard as I can on this set, and you actually do, then it's like you've got no choice but to progressively overload, because, you know, after you've gone through your recovery process from the last time you did it hard, it's like that, you should now be slightly more capable. You know, nothing crazy. You're never going to go from, like, two plates for 10, one day to 25 for 10 the next. But, if you push yourself into this, that's better said as zone probably more like the realm of hypertrophy. And then, you know, you get reasonable sleep, even that food, you get, uh, get your water in. Then odds are, once you're, you know, no longer sore three, four days of past, and you come back, you should be strong, all right? Because you took all the stimulation that last workout, you've now built yourself back up. You should be slightly ahead now versus that. And it's small, it's just momentary, uh, it's like little increments, but over time, they add up, and eventually you can add up pretty freaking huge. But that's, uh, that's the gist there, right? Instead of freaking out about making sure I hit specific numbers, I just want to know that my, like, effort and intensity level on a set by set basis, is at least here, right? There's no one's have to be 11, but at least, you know, that 90% 95% range, that's what I'm aiming for. And then I just got to be a little mindful, not to, you know, try to do four plates on smith, even if I feel kind of strong, just because I'm probably going to forget her but self. But no more talking, let's just make it just, just they happened. Let's get real here. Heavy, but not too heavy. Yeah. Yeah. I'll just want to put a slide on the left. Yeah. Thanks. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I can't get that cold, I can't get that cold. Actually, that's not cool. Yeah. Yeah. Yep. Yeah. Yeah. I can't get that slide, that was too heavy. I like that side. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. I'm gonna take it off, crack. All right, see what's more. Do something cable related next. So this is a good little change up. Heavy tension focused set within client Smith. But even though it's still an incline press here on these cables, the hard part isn't the bottom. It's squeezing up at the top, you know, because it's, I mean, most of that's just the fact that these cables are pulling my hands apart from each other. So it's like, you know, if you were holding a, if you're holding a, if you're holding a fucking watermelon right here, you probably hold it for a little while. But if you put it further away from your fucking body, it's not only when you put it just drop it, but you're going to fill your chest, ease and fucking crazy hard. Is it's like the further you have to fucking reach the more force you got to exert all sorts of like tension and whatnot. That's why if you ever see anybody on the peck deck and they start like leaning forward into the thing and pull the arms inward. That's making it easier, right? It's harder to have your arms all the way out. Extended force, but no need for any more explanation. All you can try and do is squeeze the shid out of these set reps. Oh, come on. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. All right. Let's actually not leave. Let's do one more set here, but not seated up bench slight variation. If you overall theme will be basically the same. This would be a little bit of a nastier just bent over pressing set. And you can't really force reps when you're sitting up against the seat, which is a good thing that is a benefit of doing that kind of movement. But sometimes the length difference is around. And what I mean by that is reaching a similar level of failure, but instead of just almost being forced to racket, you use a little bit of extra body language and get some more reps moving, which really just ends up boiling down to self assistance. Like you wouldn't call it cheating if you watched somebody have their like workout partner. Help pull the bar up and then make them ride the negative on like some assisted reps of like Smith machine or something. But suddenly we have a different perception where you reach failure on your own and then instead of being able to do a perfect rep, as you just can't do it, you muscle a little more and then you get to ride the negative. Now, you know, if your form becomes a greaseless, then that argument might hold a bit of water. But for the most part, I know that this set is going to give me closer towards my end goal of pumped out of the tea. So to make it happen and then move on to some stretch fly sort of based stuff. All right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's grab the wide cables. Yeah. Yeah. No. I'm clear. Yeah. All right. So this will be phase one. Just some standing right in front of the body flies. A little bit of upper chest focus and then drop the weight by like, f***ing half and do some more decline. So I'm changing my sort of like path from here. So now here. And at the flex position, I mean, I feel my whole chest pretty much like if you really push on a even a decline bench, your upper chest is going to be firing. But I just a different way to make sure I get blood into every single fiber I get f***ing available. So top side first, drop the weight and then go decline. Yeah. I'll make these little action normal. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Let's go post down here. Yeah. So chest more than freaking complete in one, two, three, four, five, six, seven sets. Honestly, basically about freaking right. You know, it doesn't take that much plus, I mean, seven sets is kind of the sweet spot, you know. And I've worked my way down from like 25. And one of the biggest changes is this, I feel like I don't do so much fluff work as I used to, as a beginner. So it's like if you're really getting after it, there's got to be a number where you've done this many sets and they've all like accumulated, let's say, pumpage, you know, there is an limit where like, okay, I'm fully pumped. Doing any more or doing much more at least is probably not in my best interest, but let's just stay concerned about the pump at hand here. And see how we're looking. Morning, weight, two, thirty, eight, again. But then I got to get back to like at home homey of stasis after a few days to really get a good idea of what I'm actually walking around at. But this pump is certainly something to freaking be whole. I mean, that's a new line. Feel like I haven't seen that thing before. Very cool for me. But let's run through some shit here. Oh my goodness. Honestly, volume wise, I feel way more freaking pumped than the last chest day. And more and more fibers are beginning to make themselves freaking apparent. I'd say fast forward two weeks. Uperage, that's the lower should be considerably fucking grainier. Now we're not going to see it for a little while because he's he's deep into a Balkan face right now. But there's this one guy. I'd say probably the king of fucking pet grains, Stefan. Something he's French. Absolutely nuts. But he's deep into a bulk right now. You're not going to see his fucking chest raise for a little while longer. But yeah, I mean, the linear I get, the more these are going to fucking start to show themselves. And honestly, I'd say chest fibers are probably the coolest out of all of them. But let's do a, it's getting the most musk in them and get out of here. Oh. Oh, goodness. Well, I'd call that a freaking success. So it's getting the car head back to the crib. And now you know what that was? That was a pretty damn good chest bump. Without exaggeration without hyperbole, without any goddamn resmotez. That was a solid as fucking pump. And now I could say, yepy, go home, eat something, and know that I'm on track for what my current goals are, AKA, get lean. Wow, keeping the most of already built up. Right? So that is good for me. One more day out of the belt. You know, it might not feel like, I mean, I'm the same dude tonight that I was this morning. But these lifts have a compounding effect that is only really apparent in the past. It's only really apparent after, you know, a couple hundred iterations. Because, you know, as a lifter, well, it's obviously as a beginner. You're going to be smarter than once you are. You know, once you're indoctrinated into being a full-fledged gym rat. But, you know, apart from the obvious thing, don't forget me. Every time you do something that makes you a little bit uncomfortable, odds are that it's just going to add up and add up and before you know it. Holy crap, man. How did you get that? Backfade, how did you get that bicep vein? How did you get those form? Whatever, you know, it's so. If you've got any, if you know anybody who's interested in jumping into the gym, come this new year's, which damn less than three weeks away, you know, 50, so it's at 49 or so, 49 and a half of the year already done. Goodness. I'm sure that's hitting some people like a smack in the face in terms of just how much time they just had access to. But, you know, if you know anybody like that, don't put, well, I guess I don't know what I would say to somebody just starting out. You know, stick to it. Right. Like nothing more than that. I think there's a million YouTube videos about like beginner workouts and all sorts of everything. The information's there. It's really just getting a hold of it, sticking to it, and then just sort of learning in your own. You know, like as much value as there is to the fact that there's like a million tutorials and everything else. That's just, that's just random information, you know, that's not a, it doesn't directly apply to you. Right. So again, I do what, you know, try some new shit. And then once you've gotten, don't mind. When do you think that hill is, you know, so, yeah, obviously, we're about to go to the gym. Obviously, we're about to watch an influx of gym yours. And the first week, two weeks might be pretty packed, and then eventually, some people are going to fall off right there. They're going to stop coming as much. So I think it's probably like a three week mark where, if you can get past that maybe three, four, five week consistency mark, odds are by then you probably built up enough of a habit, enough of a routine where you should be able to stick to it. And, you know, of course, if you look at all the statistics, it's not necessarily so, so motivating. Right. I mean, like, what's the percentage as a guy? So that actually stick to their fitness goals, new year's style. 20% 15 or something. But nothing's stopping you from being in that 15. Right. I mean, I, I hate the idea of like, it's all, it's these posts, where it's like only one person, the entire world could ever squat three, 15 or could ever bench 225 or 10. And it's like, yeah, sure, maybe whatever that percentage is, versus everybody else, it's just the nature of it. But if you look a bit deeper, the numbers explain themselves. You know, maybe 10% of the world is even trying, 5% of the world probably isn't taking that training that seriously. Another 4% are like, you know, maybe slack on the sleeve, diet, hydration. And then the 1% that do all of the things necessary, get whatever that end result is, you know. So it's not like, it can't just be explained away without, like, some people can do it and some people can. It's like, no, it's some people do what it takes. And then some people don't. And then that's what's reflected in those little statistics. So, all I'm trying to say there is try to put yourself in that minority group when it comes to, you know, any kind of a child. You know, any kind of achievement, especially fitness wise, because it's like, you freaking beat, say, what? 60, 70% of anybody else just by going at all. You know, like as much as I'm going to go hard and you know, talk about how you got to take all these sets to total failure and like really push and make sure that 90% threshold. Don't forget going from zero gym to just consistent gym. That is just as big of a jump as you go on from like relatively consistent kind of casual. I don't know how I'm in casualty about it. I think there's like activity based to work them out. So like really hard training. I'd say, honestly, the jump is probably actually smaller than to go from, you know, no routine to even just like a four day a week routine. And that kind of, that's kind of the case with a lot of things, right? The law of diminishing returns. So, fuck man. That first step you take is probably the biggest one. And then if you can just keep adding them on afterwards. Well, sky is the freakin limit. Or I guess you can say the bars, the limit, more likely to make it a little more sense. But playing for the postwork at meal, half a pound of ground beef. Some low sugar barbecue sauce. And then I'm going to try to go to bed, freakin early. I'm talking. I don't know what I'm talking about early. Nothing past 10 o'clock. I feel so much better when I'm on a good day routine of like a five or six a.m. wake up immediate cardio. You know, don't feel like there's any, just a better start I feel. But a little bit of a quick one today. Day 65, day 64. Not, these days are one and now. So I better make you two on a count. But I'm getting excited for the end of this dieting phase. And then for the bulking phase, which is to come afterward. But until then, I will see it's far for some back.

Let me make sure this thing's in the fucking work. Yeah, we're good. I've been a while, and it's trying to phone the camera. It's crazy as it is to get all the things you shoot with the lens. Fast, accurate, even. S-log 3. If anybody needs anything to do. It's all diminishing, flipping the turns. It's kind of bad. It's kind of like we got a thin video camera right there. You can't even talk. So that's something I've gotten a bit more than understanding about, like as time has passed. I mean, because now I've got a pretty solid history of, I mean, you can almost say just like self-documentary work. You know, it's like I got a, I got this thing I'm doing. You know, I want to be able to record it, look back on it, kind of showed off in a way. So, a hard-zard. I mean, not even on it's hard. There are definitely some fucking freaks out there. The bodybuilding scene. And not even just that, but just like regular fucking life where, you know, somebody might have a crazy ass, like gun arsenal, or they're like insane, like hobbyists and some kind of detail, whatever. There's a lot of issues out there. So if you know somebody's got a little bit of something that they might have a bit of a screw loose about. On it's hard. It's actually kind of what, what, what's the kind of that shit? So, it's something to keep in mind. It can come in years. That's, that's something that I love seeing. Because I mean, I go through so many different radicals. I think I've got a good mix of like, I don't know, to get the scriptural people going to be good at it. Millions of leads to whatever else from like, got, what is that? Tony, the machinist. I don't know, something, just like all sorts of everything. This video's going to show out where people got a make-up. So if you know somebody's just a guy, you can't expert that's whatever. Maybe it's out there. It's not post-comed stuff. It's been a while since I've heard of it. I never posted anything for a fucking year. I don't know what's going to happen. I've been anti-influenced for five. What do you have to try to put it to you? One, I just wanted to just put it to you. So again. I think a year before I started posting anything, if you would've told me I was going to be posting all the time, I would've put it to you. But probably freaking out of that. It's not so much. So I'm playing for two minutes. I'm playing for two minutes. I'm playing for two minutes. I guess you could say today's lift. It's like two-third from shit. Back. Pull down, grows, pull over. That's basically just a little bit of a combination. I've got a couple movements for it. Like, I've got a lot of focus. Like pull down, stretch, and then I leave back into more of a growing piece. But for the most part, that's it. Like arms, you got extensions. Overhead and regular, I guess I could say Skull crushers are kind of a bit between. And then you got curls. Showing you to get side laterals. Front raises, front press, and then rear delwork. Chest, pressing, and flies. Quads, pressing, and leg extensions. And strength. Playing curls, see the curls, already else. The actor can cheat. The hips thrust if you're into that. And that's basically it. So it's like every muscle group. As much as there is like an insane arsenal of different movements you can take from exercise execution styles. It's like, yeah, all you're doing is you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, hammer straight press, and then press, and then press. Same arsenal here. Like a regular smith press, and like a cable press. It's, you know, it's at a different angle, but it's all just this. I mean, if you look at somehow analyze the, uh, your muscle activation, like all that electric, the pulse pads, and everything else. There's going to be a minor difference. Like, I'm sure, uh, that would be something I'm interested in. Like, like, exercise scientists try to guess what movements were, you know, being done by somebody just by the grass, of like contractions. Because on something like a chess press, you're going to be seeing the most Satan's fired at the bottom. Or it's the heaviest of the hardest. And then those things should start to fail a little bit at the time, because this is the resting position. And some, uh, some machine presses are almost the opposite words. Lighter at the bottom. And if you're heavier, you're heavier at the top. So another social, I'm not trying to say, if there's no value at all, you're changing them. Obviously, we're doing something that's, uh, that's something to be discussed with a bunch. But there's no need to overclock in the evening. So a lot of stuff, the answer lies somewhere in between. I probably wouldn't recommend that you call the ever-to-flat-mechanity, and the peck-deck machine. But I also probably wouldn't think that you should do ten different movements every chance of it. So that's where I like break it down into the four components of just what movements can you do for that muscle. Stick to it. And then, you know, plug in an out certain versions. So maybe I don't feel like doing regular lot of pull-outs. There's some single-up pull-outs. Maybe I don't feel like doing, uh, a pull-over machine, or where I just don't have a pull-over machine, but you know, you're a single arm, you can't go pull-overs. Or maybe barbar rows, or not even maybe. I don't want to do barbar growth treatment. Because I don't want to over-stress my lower back and my pull-out to my hand strength. You can have a better barbar row. This, you can't show up in some good, flat, trap, back activation. But I'm also loading my entire posterior root chain. So, stimulus to fatigue ratio. It's not there, all right. I'm trying to work my lads on my traps. I don't need my pull-out. My lower back and my director is my hand strength. I just hold myself up in a pen position. I don't need them drawing the way any energy. So, for the most part, I only need towards it to make some chest supported rows, or a more seated cable rows. But even though you do support yourself with your feet on the head, it's not the same as with a barbar when you're painting a bento. And I guess half of that is because I don't have to hold up my body weight. Because I'm sitting sideways, it's not like bento for a minute. But what I'm hitting at is for back, I want to pump my entire back up. Maybe go easy on lads if like I can still feel there a little sore from the last back day. For the most part, it's like, okay, I want my lads pumped. My traps pumped, and I want to do it. The only ways I know how rows pull down is pull over. So, if that's all I've got on my disposal, then maybe I'll start two sets of rows. I'm going to do a few sets of pull-outs. One more set of rows, and then like I said, pull over to the end, just to kind of finish it off. Or maybe do that in the complete opposite manner. Start with some light squeezing pull-outs, and then move on to some, you know, some rowing action, and then finish with burnout sets of, or pull over some empty end, and then finish with a burnout set of, like pull-outs. Like there's, there's some way different ways to go about it. And I really hope that that doesn't seem like, like, all of your so many ways to do it. I don't know which one I should do. It's like, dude, it's, it's going to be fine either way. I, um, so like the, what I was getting at, how I wouldn't recommend you only did like two movements, every lift, the exact same movement. You know, it's probably not ideal. You're physically only stimulating yourself in the same way every time. But it would still work. I mean, if you see somebody who only trains, like heavy, flat, bench, squat, and deadlift, like a power lifter, you know, of course they've got their accessory work too. But those are their main lifts. Guess what? These guys still fucking make dates, you know? So it's almost half like, changing it up for the sake of more stimulus. But there is a totally balanced half of that equation where it's like, just changing it up because changing it up is fun. And you're going to enjoy it more, and you're not going to bored. Like, that's the last thing I ever want to hear when somebody's talking about training or I see, you know, I see some comments talking about it. And the guys like, I'm just getting really bored of this work, gets split. I, uh, I want to change, like, it just doesn't make a beautiful form. I've never really ran into that. And maybe that's just me being able to get a nice case about it or something. But like, I, uh, even, like I said, I never really did push full legs. I was always more like, legs, chested back arms, and I was just repeat that. Now I do legs just back arms, shoulders and there sporadically. But I don't think I really ever got to a point where I was like bored of the workouts. Because every workout was always a little bit different from the last one. You know, so I think half of the motivation for guys to think like, okay, I think that you can change it by workout and stuff. These workouts are getting real bored and repetitive. I might be more inclined to think, well, are your workouts repetitive? Are you doing the exact same stuff? You know, like, just because it worked for the last few months, doesn't mean that you only have to do heavy pressing first for chest, and then save flies for the end. You know, I've been victim to that for a while. Like, I, uh, my mind, I'm like, well, I want to press as much weight as I can when I'm fresh. So I should do my pressing first. Which usually, you know, I still do. But, you know, if I feel like it, maybe I'll change it up, do some lighter, squeeze the flies first, acting almost more as a primer, and then move on to heavy pressing later, which, I mean, I guess I haven't really asked around enough about it, but I haven't noticed, like, it's seen straight-plus after doing like two sets of pet deck, and then two sets of being applied press, maybe a little bit on the back of the ear, like your endurance of the reps, that you might get 10 and set of 12. But you're already on your way to eat fully pumped, and you get the benefit of like pre-exhaust and pressing. So that's where I guess my main point of this little card's out now. Like, trying to change it up. You have not even like, don't be afraid to change it up, like, just period, change it up. Maybe do an arm day where you're super set, everything. Try set, buy, set, try set, buy, subset. You know, don't be concerned with like, making sure the workout's absolute perfect, because when you try new shit, you're basically experimenting. So, you know, control, you can control, and then see what happens with the rest of it. So if you've never done like a super set of the arm day, and you want to see what it's like, alright, tell yourself, like, I'm going to do it. I'm going to make sure in the sense, like, go hard, and then see what happens. And I think that's, that's kind of a tricky point, because there's the sense of like, okay, well, I don't really know what I'm doing, because this is new, I haven't been going to try this before. It's like, you know, if you're afraid to do it, you've never done that you've never been getting any more of the tube, have never been, right? So, of course, case scenario. Yeah, what the hell are you guys talking about? Super set in arm workouts. I'm sticking to straight triceps and straight biceps. You guys are nuts. Best case scenario. That was the craziest arm day in my life. I'm throwing that super set workout into my rotation. That was awesome. You can't go wrong, right? You either get a new, you either get a new workout that you want to try again, or you just learn one that you don't like. And now the pool that you've got to try shit from has just gotten one workout small and then you can try some new shit. So, that's where I think, you know, I really hate to see the clips where guys just straight up record somebody else in the gym. Do you want to set, like, now not only are you just nuts, like, with the fuck. But it's just instilling this like peer pressure, okay? I need to make sure I do everything perfectly so that when I do this set of curls, you know, all the guys next to me think I know what I'm doing. Whatever, right? I mean, if I always do in a really funky set of something, like maybe I'm doing something with a half swinging, like single arm cable press, with like a fly negative or out of no. Just something. I'm like doing assisted reps or I'm holding my other hand, like that, you know, sure it might look kind of funky. But if I can feel my chest firing like crazy, and I'm getting pumped, and I'm getting fatigued, and I can tell that like, I'm just going hard in this shit's working. Then, you know, who cares what it looks like, right? So it's almost day, the ends justify the means. So, you really have to, like, you just had an roadblock to your training. If you're not only worried about like trying to make sure you do shit, which works, but also, I don't want to venture out of my comfort zone, because then, you know, the guy next me is going to like whatever. And don't worry about that. Nobody's, I've never really seen anybody do that much, but if they do, that's something that's just fucking stupid. But either way, I'm a little bit of a longer rain here, but let's just get this back and start it. No. Yeah. Yeah. Two. Two. Two. Two. Two. Two. Two. Yeah. Yeah. Nice. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Forget the chip of my gun for that one. But I was saying, like, as much value as there is in the set, where it's a two-seven control concentric, but one and a half-seven pole, and a four-second in the center, I'll completely perfect for that. That set, behind all ready, you'll noticeably more points after just one thing. So it's not like, and I think the idea of either clicking it back on the end, it's strange when the set is looking for more to ball. It's a clunky mess. You know, you're not going to approach every muscle group, even close to the same length. You know, you're really training your side belts with the same length, four celebrities that you do for having pressing the clots. That's exactly. And then even more detail, like, this specific fibers, and every other like ratio of chip from your island and the way I defast it, slow twitch of like your cast or something like that. There's a lot of room for not error, but like, very ability to put it. So, I think a good balance for every heavy nasty set, have a clean and bold feeling here, and not to a good and evil man. I don't think about it. Good more here. Same way, same everything here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Alright, I have got some words to say about that lift. For one thing, very good. And honestly, the prep was like whatever. Like I was hydrated, the definitely drinking of water. Part of that came from a power aid zero. I got to the gas station when I was filling up. But still, electrolytes, fluids, but even like just half an hour ago, my stomach was kind of fucking weird. I didn't even even think strange, I don't know. But, you know, you're not even waking. Good amount of sleep, hydrated, free workout, reasonable, hif. The gym is a little more dead today. I wonder if that got going in a little extra. I can't a like a dead gym, but like it comes in waves. You know, I like it to be packed and energized for a while. And then it mentions, I go, okay, this is too much. I want to like a dead gym. And then after it's death, I want to be a kid. Well, people, you know, but it's, well, I'm going to get that here. But overall, really good. And the hype was there. Something I think I just picked a good first movement, honestly. Because that first set of sing-along pull-dance really did it for me. And like I'm not joking. If I did that back day, only slow, perfectly controlled reps. I don't think it would have been as good. Now, not like objectively in every scenario. But for me specifically, on this specific day, I think that was as close to as good as a pump. As I could have got, you know, now insert anybody with it like, well, if you trained in my style, you would have had a way better fucking pump. Yeah, how about you do your way and all of the over what I've kind of begun to think is a good method for me specifically. And I'm not open to, or not, I am open to the audience of course. But I've got like, lift up on, lift up on, lift up on, lift up information. Tell me, this works, this gives me fucking pump. So I mean, that's pretty fucking useful. Right? I mean, your actual own data should super seed anybody else is just not random. But like, in some cases, random thoughts. But let's, I'm losing my pump as we speak. Let's go through a couple shots here. Oh, here's it. Oh, oh. Oh, and crap. It's fucking hard to pose with a pump. Not only am I already had a breath, but like pulling my lads out. And then traveling, stretching, opening like that. While they're pumped, it's like, if I can find against myself. There's a few more. Holding crap. Chairs of veins with no chest pump. Yeah, no. Now we're getting somewhere. Let's see, we'll breath hold with that one. Oh, my gosh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh, okay. That's easy, isn't it? Jay's not freaking wrong. But, competition wise, I'm not going to be posing right after a full-on back pump. So, really, I got to get posing done at its own specific portion of my training. Outside cardio and outside the lift. So, I got to have a third freaking session. Starting to get, starting to get serious, kind of you know. Let's do a, let's do one more victory pose. Oh, my gosh. Well, that is all. Pumps. Sweaty at a breath. And I am ready to go eat something. What that meal will be. I'm ready to go eat something. What that meal will be. I'm ready to go eat something. What that meal will be. How to say, strong potential for can chicken with mustard dough. It will start for you locking the shitting and cooking. But, it's got to get up. There we go. Microphone. We are good. Speaking of that, if you ever curious about the post and you're going to be saying something, audio beats video. Right. Your phone camera, but with reasonably clear speech, you are cool. You are cool. But just a little technical tip when I put my videoger for hat on. But that's off now. So back. That was good. That was extra good. And I am sure as I get leaner into this next month, I might begin to think otherwise. But honestly, I've reached a point of size, I think. Or I almost prefer how I look unpumped when I'm posing. What I mean by that is, not chest. Chest I definitely just need to come up with that. So of course, I ain't gonna like it more when it's pumped. But, you know, it quads in like, maybe not so much strides, that's really. Quads and hamstrings and back at least when they're fully pumped. And I'm doing a little pose down in the mirror and everything. They lose some of the definition. Like, me doing some back poses in the mirror, unpumped. I can see much more fibers kind of creepin through my, just creepin through because when you get pumped up, you can't like it flayed it. So it's like if you had a textured balloon or something, and like it had a little bit of like some kind of something on it, and you blew it up like twice as much as it was supposed to. No matter what shape it was before, it's just gonna blow up through your round. You know, same shits kind of truths your muscle fibers, right? I mean, you know, you can get some crazy grainy looking quads and, you know, packs and everything else. So like, there was that Christmas tree where you lats insert into your erectors and you lower back. But when they get extra pumped up, sometimes you're kind of, it's a little bit of a given take of the size and the detail, which, not a bad thing. It's what cool to have a white ass like the lady lats spread. But, you know, it's also cool to do the morning post-dance as well. So, I already start to, so I already start. Mmm, but, yeah, that was a good one. And that was a, yeah, I mean, you know, I couldn't explain it for saying, just something about the real hard squeeze and just burning out constantly kind of tension. Like those sets felt sweet. Like those sets of cable pull downs, those were working for. And getting back to what I was saying on the way here, it's like, well, you got to, you need to completely straighten your arm and hold it for a second. Or else it's not a good set. It's like, you guys are, I can spread misinformation, you know? I mean, don't, as awesome as all the social media is in terms of getting everybody connected and sharing ideas and shit. Like, when you think the ratio is of good quality information, versus like random or irritated just junk. Because that ratio is in this favor, smaller versus bigger. So you kind of have to do a little bit of internal deciphering, right? Because we just listen to whatever you saw on some post about working out. You'd be doing this stupid shit ever, right? But if you scan around all the fitness videos and everything else and you say, okay, this makes legitimate sense to me. I can comprehend it in my mind. Yeah, I probably should be training a bit harder on these sets because if I don't, I might not begin myself enough stimulus to induce growth. Okay. Well, that makes sense. I should push it closer to failure. All right. And then you might see video where a guy says, well, you should do full body work at seven times a week. Okay. That doesn't click as much. Let me think about it a little bit. Maybe I'm not going to do that, you know? And when I mean by that, it's like, you know, muscle, gross body building context. If he took somebody who's never worked at it all and put them on a seven day, a week full body work at routine And they actually did it in a year. The guy would be a totally different dude, you know? That's like the power of just working out and being active in some kind of like weight-based capacity isn't sane regardless of whatever that style is. But, you know, if you really want to hone in on specific metrics, the size, strength, if I can, I'm not so much of a guy to look for tips about speed and athleticism. You know, maybe watch some more sport-specific training videos for that kind of intel. But, you know, in terms of just straight up size, here's my bro science approach that I'm thinking. It's like, okay. Right. I have to induce a stimulus. The likes of which will be intense enough that my body has to say, well, I got to do something about this. And that's me going to the gym, thrash in the hell out of my lats, pump it out my traps, and every other fancy muscle fiber in between. And afterward, in a bulking context, my body's like, dude, you just got wrecked. Like, I'm not going to say any specific like, oh, micro-terres or like simply inducing that kind of weight-based fatigue to an extent where you're fully pumped to the end of it and you're still fatigued, you know? And like, you feel the residual result of that training. Odds are if you win, like, legit hard, and you're not lying to yourself, then you probably stimulated your shit. Not to try not to swear as much, just comes off the cuff and can't control them. So, you come home. All right. Some damages have been done, whether you want to call it that or whether you want to call it stimulus. But, something has been done to your lats. So your body's like, hey, I got prepared this stuff. I got to get this stuff back in here. I mean, I got like, lack to gas and build up and all sorts of my own nuclear, whatever. Like, I got to do something about this. So, you give yourself enough nutrients and food and energy and like basic building blocks, carbs, proteins, fats, where your body's like, all right. I got the workers, I got the gas to run these engines and everything else. Let's put this stuff back together. And I'm basically adapting to a new thing. I want to be better at it. Let's overdo it, Lou. Right? What do you do? You're lats are now 0.1 ounce bigger than they were before. And that might not be right. You know, the exact metric. I'm not sure how many. Can I do them? I can't do them. Well, either way. You've induced some stimulus and if you go home, eat, recover, then you're good. Diving down pretty similar concept, but instead of trying to overrecover and build new mass, you're just trying to hold on to the mass that you've already built up and then lose the fat underneath. But that's sort of the idea that I'm getting it. And you can make it more complicated and you learn about it, you get into it. But if you can look at it on a basic level like that, then if anything's out of whack, you should have a good indicator of, okay, what is the problem? You know, like you're not suddenly going to completely plateau for no reason at all. You're almost your own detective. Like you're your own damn gains detective, where you can look back at all the information, clues and think, okay, I've been training every day or I've been training six times a week or whatever. Consistently for the past four months, and I've been going hard. And I'm not joking. So the training is probably solid. Okay, what else? Well, I've been getting about three hours of sleep every night, the last four weeks. Hmm, that could potentially be part of it. And let's say the guy said he's got enough hydration, he's eaten enough food, then he probably think the sleep's the issue. You got your training, you got your feeling, water and food, you know calories, and you're recovery, you're sleep. So if any of those things are off-kilter, odds are your gains are going to suffer. So looking at that backwards sort of transit of property, if your gains are suffering, then odds are something that they're those three little pillars is off. And if you improve them even just a little bit, then you should start to notice what's the word I'm thinking of. Incremental gains, that's what I'm going to say. Something along those lines. So don't know, just like it's a weird balance of like obviously go as hard as you can. But don't freak. Right? Like if you're doing regular pull-downs or if you got to go to the hotel gym and there's only like 40 pound dumbbells and it's totally my way. But if you don't have the most perfect optimal stuff at your gym, what happened? Still go hard, still push it, and still make sure that everything you gain control, you get after. And before you know it, you're going to be saying the same thing where you're like, well, you know, man, I'm tracking the calories and you tell me your bulk and I just don't believe you. I'd say what it's a heavy burden to carry when you have to say that. Because sometimes it is that simple. But now I'm, now I'm really just freaking around with. I've had, I think I've had no doubt to curse. I think I've had no dedicated carbs today. Yeah, I can. I can feel that I'm alone. Like every time I die it down and I have a good lift and I burn through some of my like spare glycogen and blood sugar. I can, I can tell it makes me a little rambly one in the car. It's my thoughts a little bit just to touch more jumbled. But either way, I'll have a morning wait update. Well, yeah tomorrow when we're talking about forgot to win myself this morning. I was trying to get after it and go to the cardio extra early. So accidentally skipped a step. But either way, awesome back day. It's just waiting. A waiting game and also not stopping at a, I said this a couple days ago. I don't understand the obsession with crumble. Right, maybe I'm just a crispy cream guide hard, but just a, like, two sweets too much. You know, I'd rather, I'd rather stop at Cains in a crumble. But to each their own. But no, no sweets in sight for me right now. I get, I get some goals where those do not align. And if you also think you've got some sort of some sort of something or other you want to get going. We're treats are potentially have to be pushed to the back burner. If not put away completely for a period of time. Oh, I got to tell you, man, as you get a learn how to fuck it out. Right, because I mean, it's, it's not easy. You're really fighting your buddies. Urge to just tell you like, oh, it's like, this is, like, I mean, some guys can't even get trolled. It's like you got a, it's like your gallum where you got the ring voice talking to the back of your head. Yeah, that's midnight. You get up to get a drink of water. You open the freezer, because you just something made you open it. And you see the tub of Ben and Jerry's cookies and cream. Oh, I'm not mad at it. Just have a small, just open the land. Help me, oh no. I've been there, right? Hold strong. Yeah. Let's all together. But that's all I got. I will see you for tomorrow for some kind of arm day. Where it ends up being, I can't say for sure, but will I end up completely pumped and vaining? Staying me out, you said that point. So I'll see you then.

There we go. All right, one more old school phone style before we go back to the fancy pants. The fancy pants, Sony cameras. But playoffer tonight's lift. A little bit out of the element on a bit of a day trip today. And my flight, I canceled the last night. So I had everything packed and then I flew at this morning, you know, long story short. I unpacked my bag with us leaving me with no sweatpants, no tank. Only the jeans and the shirt that I brought earlier will be extra shirt. So not exactly my standard attire, but for any lift, honestly, the arm day would be the one to have the pants melt malfunction just because it's a huge carousel. Not my first time doing a jeans lift, but probably not ideal. I'll say that much though. Try steps and buy steps. I doubt will be affected much at all. Given the fact that I'm still going to have access to cables, dumbbells and everything else in between. But Cal Redefits that still maintained, things are, well, I hope I don't have to say that. But things are still going by smoothly. So how about we just jump straight to the lift and then look through some, we can look through some comments afterward. Not exactly Q and A style, more like comment in a response style. But let's just get straight to business. And this is what I call it any time. I got some greenery. I feel like I'm at the DM Beach. But no, really nice. So the fact that they also have that dip machine back there is getting me going too. Let's start classic moderate weight rope extensions and go from there. Honestly, well, I mean, I'd say 95% of my lifts are like this. But for whatever reason I've got an extra good feeling about today's arm day. I couldn't really pinpoint it. But I feel like a late day in your empty gym is at least getting close to my natural element. So let's just go nuts here. In there. You should get on live. I can feel this aching. Oh my. Why am I here in prison? I can't swim with them. He'll see. Yeah. The way that I do these rope exchanges is so much different than I used to. It's like if there's just an anatomical like 3D model of a dude doing this shit, I wouldn't even recognize myself. Either way, it's two starters. Sometimes I don't totally love this. internet. one more this next one let's change it make it a drop set instead yeah here Yeah. Yeah. Nice. Oh, yeah, okay. Hold on, grab. Let's do something overhead next, but I might only need one or two more sets for tries. I already cook in quick. Some heavy overhead extensions will be perfect. And by heavy, I mean the stack plus a plate. Nothing crazy, but a little heavier than the standard. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Okay, let me grab it. Let's do that. One more. Let's do that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's do one more supersetted kind of something. And that will be it for try sets. And I've already hit the three-dim styles I was aiming for. Push down overhead stretch base extension and a heavy dip. There's not many other ways to hit your freaking triceps to that, but one more. Move on a bison. I don't know why I'm so giddy, but this is already an awesome fucking lift. Here's the plan. Machine. No. Push down as the pre-ghost. Machine dips as the burnout. And if it tries, I have strong reason to believe this will be it. Yeah. There we go. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Oh, my gosh. Time for some dumbbell curls. Let's keep the pace up on this one. It's crazy. I feel pretty strong, but I don't know what to overdo it. So this is to a straight set of curls with the 70s. A little bit of swing. Not going to sit here and be. Not for this set at least. Freaking thread, Oh my gosh. All right, let's change it. Make the next set. Let it squeezing. I'll give it a one to one to contrast. And set the 70s. 50 fire sir. I think ready to go. I'm going to do that. I'm going to do that. I'm going to do that. I'm going to do that. I'm going to do that. I'm going to do that. I'm going to do that. I'm going to do that. My hands are ready to be nice. I'm going to do that. I'm going to do that. I'm going to do that. I'm not done. I don't want to make it so little bit of a rest place. I'm not done. I'm not done. I'm not done. I'm not done. Let's shift gears from normal. What do you think will be next? If I don't want to do a standard curl, I'm not done. I'm going to go back and forth. Question and guess. Who are you? If you guessed, by step, by step, pull down, seated on the exercise ball. 12 pounds specifically. You're damn good, guesser. But those last sets were very brutish. Just heavy weight, a lot of muscular tension going on. Just getting thrashed that way. This is a little more tedious. What I mean by that is it's going to take me a little while. The rate of fatigue that gets built up, rep by rep is lower here. So it's going to be a higher rep set. Still failure is 15, 20, well within the range of aim before. If this was a 25 set, 25 rep set, that's still be cool. As long as I really pushed it, let's get strapped in here. Really try to isolate my biceps. I want zero lat engagement. A little at the end is self-assistance. That's not bad though, but only a little. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Damn. Okay. Oh my gosh. All right. What do I want to finish? Let's reconvene it a few minutes after it gets more water. All right. Here's my plan. Throw the 50s around. And by throwing, I mean just like do some quicker pace reps as a good burnout. Come over here, grab the 25s. Do some hard squeezing reps. You're really trying to force as much blood nutrients into every sort of fibromybiceps and it's such a form just possible. Find the free key of sliding. Close down and roll. Only a few more steps. Come on. Right. There. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. Oh yeah. Okay. Actually, there's been front of body fly or curls. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Oh my gosh. I think this is just about the freaking sweet spot. Two overhead lights, not much coming in from the sides. And just subjectively like the feeling of tensing on my arms. I feel like I don't even have to say it. But yeah. I think some arm pumpage has been obtained. Or what achieved be a better descriptor there. Either way. Let's see if they're looking. And they get out of here. So I'm going to head back to the crib some more morning. Keep this damn two lights going to cut into the recovery process. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh, my gosh. Oh, shit. Oh, skip the front of the spread. Oh. Oh, my gosh. Well, just standing here and kind of blasts ready foes. Yeah. It's like the ratio of arm to waist. Only gets nutty or the leaner I get. Because your arms when you leaner, they just look crazier even if you're physically smaller. But I mean, that's not really arguable. Oh, shit. I need a little breath hold of that one. Oh, my goodness. It's going to double the above I backshot. Then scream. Oh. Oh, my gosh. I'm ready for bed. Let's get the car. The little ominous in the lighting department of whatever kind of key SUD this thing is. But that was a good lift. And I almost fell asleep in the car. Oh, my goodness. Yeah, that would throw off my plans for the night quite, quite seriously. But let's see what you guys are saying. You know, no one, no prompted Q and A or anything. Let's just scroll. Kilton Clark 240. This is the best you've ever looked Sam. And that's in response to the last back day from yesterday. Thank you. Give me some time. Give me some time. Because the freak factor is still improving. It's not a, it's not even close to plateau. It's still going to be creeping up as I get leaner and leaner. Like even there, like short, vaning. But I'm still reasonably soft. Like even right here, I can grab a pretty, I can grab a little pinch of gristle. So once this sort of skin all over my torso, legs, glutes, everything else gets a little closer to like back of the wrist level thinness. That's where some real freakingess is headed. But thank you. Let's see here. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. I love your intro, Sam. Please bring it back. This is Calar at 12. I will. I'm going to, I'm going to refill and see if I can make this with a little extra kind of special. But that'll be sometime next week or so. Plus the music of that last, the last intro got copywritten. So I think I either, I don't know what I should, I might reach out to somebody to like, would you say, you want to say contract, you say commission, I like some kind of intro song. Because the first one is killer, but it's the same thing that he would copy right. Not ideal. But we'll, I will say, but there'll be a new one. And it should be a little freakier in terms of the production value too. So give me a, give me a little time to get all that kind of recorded. But let's keep scrolling down here. Do it. Do it. Do it. Do it. Do it. Batvall says, we need another shoulder video. I think it might be right. I honestly, I think it might be right. Tomorrow, I think, is probably going to be a shoulder day just because I think I get stand for having a little bit of extra rest before it legs again. So I might make tomorrow a little more of a, like maybe just shoulder calves kind of even throwing it such a forms. Making a little more of like a sister day. And then smack legs in two days. So I think shoulders is coming up soon. Do it. Do it. Do it. Do it. Maybe I shouldn't make a Q&A. Half of these questions or half of these comments are like brain run. Dear VB3NH says, is it valid to bench with thicker wrist wraps on to help take your wrist out of the equation and help you break your chest down better. I tried it today and felt a lot stronger. You have two reps more compared to normal. Is the wrist wraps somewhat, is the wrist wrap thing somewhat common or no? And that's actually a good question. With I had a pair of wrist wraps for a while. And they were more like wrist supports. It was like this sort of foam thing with a velcro wrap around just to give my, like, my forms a little more support like right in here. But I never needed it for pressing. I've never noticed any serious like pressing issues even with really heavy, like sets of whatever. Like barbell bancher smith. I'll actually get to the point where like my hands themselves like beneath the, like the mean of my palm. But bones will start to sort of feel in the force of the bar. My wrist is still pretty good. And before I, you know, get into the wrist wrap thing, that's something which I do think about is if you're pressing, right? Let's say you get the bar here. Right, where my fingers at. If you're looking at your wrist, right? Why would you want this bar way up here? Like I've seen, especially the power lifters because they're trying to reduce the range of motion. So they end up like not all the time. This is, this is obviously kind of rare, but they'll put the bar up on top of their hands. So it's like hanging down below normal. So they can, like, not have to bench as far. But for the most part, what I'm trying to do is keep my hand actually as neutral as possible. And then push directly through this line that is my form, right? So it's like here's all bone, everything else. So I want the bar to be right here in line with all that. So it just kind of feels more natural. You know, if you have a real bent back wrist up here in the bar is more like a, like a knuckle height, and it's giving, it's like, torque in your wrist, then I think you're going to run into issues. But also, I think form training directly does have a little bit of a, not even a little bit, like a wrist strengthening effect. Like all the light, like 25 pound dumbbell reverse extensions, and then the heavier, like curls in this direction. Like, I'm not going to say you're going to thicken up your wrist at all. Like, well, actually, I mean, maybe not this way, right? Like this is bone, this is bone, this isn't going to just suddenly beef up. So if you're, oh, there's a word for it. Oh, it's terrible. It's called a, it'll say wrist lit. If you're a wrist lit and you get really small wrists, you can't really control your bone structure. Like, what are you going to do? But by beefing up your forearms, all of this muscle down here, some of that is going to translate into some kind of, I'd say some tendon thickening down here. So you'll sort of thicken it up. But I would recommend that if you run into that sort of issue. Right? Just strengthening your whole form in general as well as trying to press directly into line with your, well, with your forearm. Instead of like having the bar up here kind of wrenching you, you know, like the further back you are, press like this, would not recommend it. But let me, let me get back to the comment hand. Yeah, if it feels good, then you're cool. You know, honestly, the wrist wraps, I think are one of the most, like legit pieces of gear that you could be using lifting winds, because it's not just inflating your ego. Like whenever you do the elbow wraps, like real tight all around here, like that physically makes it more difficult for your arm to bend, like you're running into yourself, and it makes the weight lighter at the bottom. So you may as well be using a slingshot. So for anybody where you see like a tix-hack post of a dude, like, you know, benching 600, and he's got a slingshot on and, like, really beefy elbow wraps. I'd say at least 200 pounds of that weight, it's just being lifted purely by the elastic effect. But in terms of just form support, if that's what you got to do, if it feels better for you, yeah, keep doing it. I try to, well, I mean, I guess you don't have to, right? But in my mind, I kind of like lifting supportless when possible. You know, I don't want to have like a crutch of, okay, I bel, I need my wrist wraps, I need my knee sleeves, not against them, but for whatever reason, I don't know. I'm just not like, I don't want to just use them unnecessarily, right? I mean, I've, and this might just be coming from a little bit of, uh, maybe in kind of a hair. I think semi justified, maybe not for real, you know, you never too justified to be a hater, but I'm talking about the guys where you see the video of dude, squat suit, knee sleeves, knee wraps, like doubling up on both of them, sleeves first and then wraps, and just doing the most equipped lift ever for like something that they probably could have done without any of that equipment, you know, so maybe that's a part of a sort of subconscious thing that's motivating me not to love using too much support of equipment. But no, if that feels better for you, if just, if you're doing everything like, you got all the force going straight through your form, and that just feels better. You're totally cool. I would, uh, I would see no problem with that. Let's, uh, let's get you scrolling here. You're doing it. You're doing it. Zick Desmett says, S log three is go to, I stopped using it because it's too powerful. You're gash dang right, man. You're gash dang right. Let's do one more than we can now, yeah, here. That victory pose looked aesthetic. AF says YouTube show random. Yeah, that was kind of cool. And same thing. I mean, as my waist gets a leaner, like, it's physically just going to be shrinking and give me a little, uh, I guess I wouldn't want to say hourglass. I'd say more like Dorito kind of like big torso we look, coupled with more of a smaller waist. And then with a big back, I started bugging out there, I guess. But with a vacuum and no food, Mr. McEither, that is cool. So I'm hoping that that gets, uh, that only, that only gets freaky here from here and out, which spoiler light, I, spoiler with the spoiler alert, I think it will. So now I gotta do go home. Actually go home. And then I got a, I think a shoulder day tomorrow. So I'll get a, uh, yeah, I'm, I get ahead of the grocery store. My kitchen is like, barren. Like I get ground beef and like mustard and ketchup, but it's, it's running slim. So how about, uh, how about I see it in for a little bit of grocery haul, restocking.

There we go. Back to normal. Back to freaking normal. But yeah, on the topic of the New Year's Resolutioner and not even just the New Year's Resolutioner, but anybody who's got a bit of an itch, you know, a small ember in the back of their mind or even there, even their gut where they're like, you know, maybe I should work out this year. Maybe I should work out this year. Maybe I've got to get that's a, and I feel like it's more classic to say it's like, I want to get back and shape, you know, or like, oh man, I'm getting that shape screw and it's like, usually that phrase is just an idea that bubbles up for just a moment and then the thought process is not all right. Let's start working on it. It's usually just, well, whoops, whatever, you know, like I'm not trying to discount it, but you basically have two options, right? If somebody is like, okay, I should get back in the room. I mean, it sucks, but it's much easier to say to yourself, and maybe tomorrow. Yeah, I can nothing to change by doing today versus tomorrow, it's too tomorrow. It's cool, you know, because that's very cool, right? That's like you just stayed up crazy late. You got a clock, you got a class at 8 o'clock, you wake up at 7 and you somehow convince yourself, wait a second. I'm just not going to go. Oh, like, it's, it's just a very good feeling, but that enjoyment is over right then. It does not build into anything else, you know, you're not going to get compounding interests on that like satisfaction. That's it. And then you're actually going to pay for it later on down the line when you realize it. Shit. I told myself I was going to work out this year. It's already December, for you, December 14th, means 13th, that is around one day delay, and then you're gone. And then, you know, it bubbles up like this, this potential energy is kind of bawling itself, and then it just kind of disperses, you know. And I can't really say exactly what could flip that switch. You know, it's like a, it's like a freaking atomic bomb, right? Not bear with me because everybody pretty much has infinite fucking potential to get from wherever they're at now to pretty much jacked. It can be done. And we've seen it be done. Like, we've ever looked up at same fat loss transformation. So these guys didn't just have the greatest magical genetics in the world. They knew what they wanted to do. They made it happen. It took them years to fucking get there. And now, holy shit, you would not even recognize the guy if you standing next to the version of himself, however many years before. It doesn't just luck. What happened was they were able to take all those internal like a game. Do I should probably work out as probably get into it? Or I mean, I usually don't bring it up because I don't have as much history with it. But like looking at yourself in the mirror and thinking, fuck, yeah, I believe that myself go here. So go as wait, I used to look like, you pull up like a picture back in what you can see in prime, what is or whatever else. Like it's, you know, that's kind of, sometimes the little motivators just say, right, let's change this shit up. You know, you reach a point where you almost get fed up and you think, okay, something's got to change here. And everybody's got, you know, this is much energy to think, okay, I should start working out as you, because there's no barrier to entry. Anybody can start looking up like a bodyweight homework out or, you know, get one of those P90 exports. All the videos are just on YouTube now. Like the barrier to entry is purely in term. So somehow what differentiates the guys or girls is strong 4% viewership here. But what differentiates these guys who just think about it versus wanting to really do it is they're able to somehow like concentrate that energy in that sort of like excitement, like action or I guess you can say call to action to make this shit happen. They're able to condense it into a critical enough mass or it actually reacts. And then they put it into motion, you know, because anybody can say like, man, it'd be crazy if I locked in this here. Dude, it'd be freaking nuts if I locked in this here, bro. Like I'm going to get jacked. And I've been, I've been training, I've been watching videos, bro. I'm going to, I'm locking in this here. Can you, uh, can you hit ready? Bro, that's, let's, let's squat up and make them on here. Ready up. I guess, because we're saying that's played for me. But it's, you know, anybody can just say that. But to actually make it happen, there's something in there which, uh, I think, I can pinpoint, you know, because it can't be forced, right? I mean, if you, uh, like, let's say your dad wanted you to be in all start football player and he forced you to do all these, or just anybody like you get forced into wanting to do it or forced into doing it. You're, you're just going to end up presenting the sport and whoever's making you do it more, right? You can't, like, force anybody to like something, you can't force somebody to push themselves. I really think it has to be an internal drive. You know, I was, um, I was just talking to somebody earlier and I looked weird just kind of going all like life stories, everything else pretty much. But I remember thinking of myself like, out of all the things that I've ever done, which, you know, not that all this buck around. But, you know, I've done all sorts of like different kinds of sports, a different school, a different sort of whatever, like the things that I've felt the most enjoyment from went the furthest with and got the most, well, I guess it would be really, you just say the most results with, where the things that I wanted to do for me, right? I mean, if you get a, like, I had to play, I played soccer as a kid and, you know, I don't think there's anything stopping me from becoming a badass soccer player. Like, I had, like, regular, or a bloodisism, right? But just an interest me as much, you know, like, head bounce around, like I love being goally, I don't want to just run back and forth, which I guess apparently translated it to now, I mean, you know, I can't get to be a runner-up down in soccer, soccer field. But it's like, whatever, you know, it didn't really click. How I was doing it, because my parents brought me to do it, which I mean, it was still fun, like, just hanging out a lot like my guy friends, school and everything. But like, it wasn't like my thing, like I wasn't wired to be into it, right? And then, with just anything, right? If it's forced upon you, odds are you just not going to fucking want to excel, right? But if you find something that you like, you find something that you enjoy, and just the act of doing it alone is fun for you, then the freaking skies, the limit. It's, um, I'm definitely lucky, because for me, I think everybody needs something, you know, everybody, uh, and what I mean by that is, that's something doesn't have to be working out. Like, I'm taking this to an insane degree, beyond what I would basically recommend, you know, like in my eyes, a perfect world would be one, where everybody got at least a couple days of weight training in and did consistent cardio. Like, I can recommend that completely to everybody in the freaking world. And I think that'd be great. You know, not everybody needs to sit in the gym every day for hours. Make sure you do 30 minutes cardio track every calorie track. Like, if you want crazy, like muscle billing results, then that's what you should do. But I think everybody should work out in general. So you don't have to make that your thing. But everybody needs a thing where you can be excited about it. You can go to bed and think about how well you did today. You can be excited about what you're going to get to do tomorrow and be able to look back and think, man, I'm so much better at this than I was so many years ago, right? Because I mean, ideally, this thing is going to last a while and it gets a really luck into something. But the, I think the trifecta is find something that you like to do, because if you don't like it, you're not going to do it all the time. Something that you have a little bit of a sort of aptitude for. It doesn't have to be awesome. I mean, we've all heard the guys where they're like, you know, like genetic. Didn't have the best genetics, but I still was overpowering. So the aptitudes, like a little bit of a factor for sure, you're not going to catch me try to become like a basketball player right now. Or if you're like a four foot or if you're like a five foot six dude, you're probably not going to be a long jumper. So there are little limitations like that, but not so many, right? Like whatever. But if you like it, you got to baseline aptitude for it and you can give yourself enough time to do it on the regular. And that like was paying for it good. Then if all those three things are in place, you're basically set, you know, it's as if you had you're really just light the freaking fuse, you know, because if all those things are in place, then you're going to do it a lot. The fact that you like doing it, there's just a basic sort of component of human nature or just your mind where being good at something is cool. Like if you are ever, if you ever remember being a kid and like your drawing got put up in the classes like the example or like your essay was what the teacher uses a reference to great everybody else's. Or just anything like being single that thing at heyman, that was pretty good. You did that well. Like that just shoots off all kinds of badass, dope a manager, responses in your mind where it's like that was pretty cool. And you don't need a third person perspective to tell you that. You know, if you get a, like, try to think of something. You know, let's say you're a golfer. You know, I always reference the golfer as a different activity than the working out. Anyway, because you marked as it's a little easier for me to grasp. But if you went out, you know, you gave yourself the day, you're doing 18 holes, and you've got a personal fucking record. Right. You finally shot under 80 or under whatever. You're probably in a field pretty damn good. You know, and like what was the achievement, right? There's no prize money. There was no, like, it was not a competition with anybody else. But you just did something you'd never done before. And you got to think, wow. That is just, I mean, really all you're thinking. That was just fucking sick. But, you know, if you look at it a little bit more objectively, you're like, wow, all the time in energy that I spend putting into this has paid off and now I'm better for it. Sweet. You know, and it doesn't have to have like a, like a direct translation to any other sort of vector of life, like just having something you can enjoy. I really think if you don't, then you are missing out. And that's a, not to, you know, say you're screwed or anything like that. But if you don't have something, then that's your cue. Right. Look for it. You know, if you ever, if you ever look at anybody who's good at anything, then don't forget, at one point, they were an absolute complete beginner and they had no idea what they're doing with whatever that thing was. You know, every, every, every, every Jimmy Hendrix, every whoever, at one point was just a beginner who said, wow, this might be cool. I think this is the same thing. I don't know how I think I might like doing this. And then they put in a crazy amount of hours, which for the most part probably did not feel like work, because they just enjoyed the process of doing it. And then boom, 10 years past, they're got damn fucking legend. Right. So it's not like everybody has to become a Jimmy Hendrix. That's actually, I mean, he's up there with pretty much anybody in terms of like, over arching world known as, like, that's pretty wild. But on a smaller scale, like just being good at something, so I can know, so that's where that's the fun part of days, I think. It's the time that you get to spend doing something that you just would want to do anyway, right? But enough random random kind of hype up talk, playing for tonight's lift, shoulders with a touch of everything else. Touch a touch of calves, touch of forearms, a little bit of a, um, a little bit of an accessory day, for say, because I just blew back from New Jersey earlier, so I get my little travels. It's probably not my best interest to do a crazy leg day. And I don't want to just hold off and do like a scrappy leg day, so it'll be better to give myself a little bit of a luffer. You'll, and do legs tomorrow. So that leaves me a day. I don't need a full arm rest day. So a little bit of a chill lift, like shoulders will do me good. Plus, it's been a while since I've really had a nasty shoulder pump. Primarily, just because they're my shoulders, relative to my arms and my chest, like, they're just, they're big, they're big enough to the point where I want everything else to grow to match their development. But dieting down, that's when I'm going to throw in shoulders much more often. There's an eye growing right now. All I'm doing is maintaining muscle. Like this whole process of dieting these last two months, I have not gained an ounce of muscle. I've actually basically shrunk down muscle-wise because all my glycogen and insure muscles that are like fluids and everything else have sort of dissipated because I'm not eating a damn thousand grams of carbs for a day like a bulky face. So I'm physically smaller, right? But as I get leaner, all these proportions of like your shoulders and your waist and like my hips, like my hips, the hip, my bones, they're not shrinking. You know, the broadness of my shoulders is not changing, but what is changing is that thickness of my waist, the amount of leanness or I guess the amount of body fat that's sort of softening me up. And as that starts to, I mean, really just get burned off. Like, I guess you can say, physically get burned off, then it'll, it's almost as if I look like I'm getting bigger even though actually it's smaller. That's the leanness effects. Otherwise, notice the freak factor or you just say simply looking freaky. But that freak factor will only continue to improve. And I think I've overcome what you could sort of refer to as like the, the hill of dieting. Because what happens is as soon as you start dieting down or at least in my case, I just finished a bulky face. Now I'm going to start dieting down. As soon as that happens, as I stop eating a ton of food or when I stop eating a ton of calories and carbs and everything else, then instantly I'm basically going to deflate muscle wise because I was holding like 10 pounds or so, evenly distributed across my build in each of my muscle fibers of water and glycogen, you know, basically just fuel that your muscles run off of and kind of act as storage cells for so that, oh, I mean, basically, it's run off of that energy when you're fed state. But as soon as I started dieting down and now I'm not eating as much food as keep myself that full, musculerly I've now shrunk. But I'm just as fat as I was before. Like I've got the same amount of body fat because the calorie deficit takes a while to really ramp up. So in the beginning of dieting, it's actually kind of the hardest because you start to look worse. Like when you're bulked up, even when I'm a bit softer, being carbed up and vaining everything else and just pumped to shit, it looks pretty fucking cool, you know? So to go right into a deficit, you have a little bit of a immediate upfront cost of, you don't look as cool and carbed up and pumped as you did when you were fully bulked. But once you reach a point of leanness, then that drop and freaking is actually starts to return and over pass where you were before because now I'm starting to see more fibers, more veins, more separation, better waste of shoulders and leg ratios and everything like that. So this month to next month, I foresee that much bigger change even than the last two months to now, just because every pound of body fat that I continue to lose is a bigger and bigger change, percentage wise of how much body fat I've got. Like if I've got a hundred pounds of extra body fat on my frame and I lose one, it's only a 1% increase in leanness. But if I've got 10 extra pounds of body fat on my frame and I lose one pound, that's a 10% jump in leanness. So it's kind of one of the rare things where you actually get, not diminishing but improving returns. But it's kind of counteracted by the fact that the leaner you get the harder it is to get that lean. So it it balances itself out, but that's where there really is a light at the end of the tunnel of the dieting face, which makes it easier for me to stay motivated and not just pull into what are my three pillars of the fast food, pull into Wendy's canes or, and there's probably the big ones. I don't mind a McDonald's sometimes though, but honestly the buns are kind of, it's starting to lose me. Now it just doesn't just kind of dry, right? At least the Wendy's is a little bit more of a burger. But either way, either way I shouldn't be talking like that. Now I got myself thinking about it. Let's just get some shoulders started, plus a little bit of accessory work after the shoulder pop check. So whenever I'm doing shoulders, rear delts gets the number one spot, right? rear delts first. Half the reason for that is I like finishing a shoulder pump with my side delts kind of the biggest part that actually makes you look the most pumped. Done. But also just kind of acts as a good warm-up. You know? Like when I do side ladders, they're going to feel better once my rear delts have already got to blood flowing through them. Plus it kind of gets my roots that I've got to come to. It's like just all the above and kind of just works. But heavy face pulls kind of a cambered bar a little bit more of a bend, but not like a W easy bar. But I really like these, especially versus like a standing version of these, like I mean it's so much. Guys a load up, whatever amount. Try to stand here just in the open air and like balance against the weight. So it's like as many signals as you're sending to fire your rear delts, you're sending just as many of not more through your holdback. Try to keep your balance. You need to just sucks, right? So why would I want that many variables in the movement? So by laying down in this sort of orientation, I'll get a focus on the squeeze in my rear delts. But I'll probably do a couple of these in a row. No need for like 10 different rear delts movements. I'm not even just too too, but we want to see. Yeah. Yeah. Do. These. Oh my gosh. So one more little tip I'm thinking about before I just cut to the rest of these reps. Is I'm not trying to move my shoulder blades or my shoulders at all. Like I want my shoulder to be locked in the same position so that all my arm does is rotate around it. Because that's all your rear delts is doing. It's not helping any of this. So if every rep look like here, I just be doing a really trap focus row. So if I go too heavy, I notice I start to use too much traps and that's my cue drop the weight just to touch. But if you're more here, then we want to something else. Okay. One more heavy one. And then I might do a light one to finish this off. Four kind of feels like a good number with these. No. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Do you walk? Yeah, that's a little too heavy. So at the cost of less tension, I get the benefit. I'll be able to hold the squeeze a lot harder and harder. No. Yeah. All right. Let's move on to some kind of rear delts style fly. That's right. One of your cable or dumbbell though, give me a second to think about it. Yeah. Cable is definitely not going to work. So let's think about this. What can your rear delts do? A lot of this. So typically, all right, reverse, packed deck. Perfect. But no packed deck in here. So same thing with dumbbell fly. Put yourself in the same position to fight against gravity. And just do like this. And you're pretty strong with these. Like it's because it's sort of it's like the opposite of the strength curve of a dumbbell curl. Well, either way, when the weight is down here and it's hanging, all of that force is only being translated like through my bone structure. You know, it's going to be way harder to hold the weight up here than down here. So usually I'm going to say like, you know, don't swing too much or whatever. But with these, I don't mind a little bit of momentum just to build it up and then really feel the sort of difficulty in resisting that downward motion. Because obviously you don't want two dumbbells just to come smack each other, especially in front of this kind of below the waist area, you know, you only do that once and then you'll learn your lesson. But I think the 60s are we good? Maybe just want to do with these. Well, I'll say they feel. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, can't hold it, crap. Yeah. One more. Just like that. a little bit quicker reps speed, but the fatigue definitely can't fucking add it up. I only need the 55, so the next one too. Okay, yeah. Let's get some sides out started. But what to start with is the question I face now. But typically, I just grab dumbbells, regular dumbbell lateral raises, because they work. I'm not going to say they don't honestly. I think they're pretty much perfect. Like bench, or chest, I'm not sure I could pinpoint one movement I'd want to only do forever. I might be Smith bench, but I'm not totally sure. But side-lateral, I can say, in a heartbeat, no hesitation. dumbbell lateral raises. But that doesn't mean some cable isn't good too. And half the value of sometimes changing it up with the loading method is it changes the way the machine feels, or that the movement feels. With dumbbells, it's obviously you know. Let the bottom heavy at the top, but when you do a cable, you stand a little bit off-axis from that loading point, then you get tension the whole way around. And actually since it's over there, I'm feeling the most tension in my side-delt here at the bottom. Or I guess whenever my arm is like 90 degrees to the cable. Like if you're doing a side-lateral with dumbbells, it's obviously going to get harder, harder, harder, harder, harder. And this is the hardest, because it's furthest away from your shoulders, you got to exert the most force and leverage. But with these, heavy is down here at the bottom. And it gets a little lighter at the top, because it's kind of going like, it's almost pushing me, not just pulling my arm down. So it just lets me get a harder squeeze. So maybe I've been a little bit, a little bit close-minded with the side-delt training. But either way, let's do a light squeezing set right side first. Yeah, let's just run these up a little bit. And then I'm going to use some dumbbells in a little bit. I won't have to go to a heavy, because it'll already be pre-exhaust with this stuff. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. Two more of these. Same style, same everything. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. All right. Let's grab some dumbbells next. Light, nothing too have to hear. The dumbbells are, oh, I got no mirror in front of them. So I think let's just grab the 40s for as many sets as I can fucking handle. And even with that, obviously even sitting here doing a little bit of the hands on hips. The side-delt pump-ness is like crap. It's even apparent through the freaking sweatshirt, which is nuts. But even just standing, obviously not to the same extent. But I feel like that dude's from fucking UUHKUSHO show. And if you know that reference without having to look it up, you get some reasonable taste. But I don't think I made it past that, that like war arc. As soon as that was over, it kind of lost me. But either way, 40s, I don't mind swinging a little bit here, because my goal is not perfectly executed reps. My goal is to get perfectly pumped. All right. So it's like what's just in what's the law. Sometimes they're a little finicky. But let's go nuts here. Okay. Be more. And shows are, yeah, let's just say they're pumped. Yeah. Yeah. You're cute. Hold on, I got you. One more minimum potential for two. Let me breathe, then we can decide. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Oh, good. I started listening to those ones a little. But shoulders done. No. That's fine. The best lighting. See how they're really looking. I don't know how to need the sweatshirt. It's really right home. Was that seven sets of rear delts, are only six. So I know it was seven of those and then eight side delts. Front delts. Not going to happen. And there is a specific reason for that. I don't know you anymore. Front delts. You know, like I really, if the shoulder department is overstocked, then front delts is fucking two weeks in a, or not two weeks. One of my saying. It's like, it's double. It's double maximum freaking capacity. I'm going to put some of the mess with a little something down here. There we go. All right. Now we're cooking the freaking gas. Let's make sure right in the middle. Let's make sure right in the middle. What are the shoulder veins coming out there? This usually with a lat or with a shoulder pump, the left side try-step is the freakyest. So let's see if that still holds up. But yeah, oh my goodness. I don't think I've seen veins on that far edge of my shoulder. At least that this extent before Jesus. A little bit of just a hint of tricep feathering right there. This maybe a minor hint. I got to get a little bit leaner before any of that starts to show up. But yeah, I mean, just standing here. They are rounded over the back, right? There's a very noticeable chunk of like gap between rear delts and tricep. I mean, you really, you really see where they tie into each other. And that's what I'm aiming for, right? I want a big discrepancy between rear delts, tricep, lat, and everything else. Because that's what makes your shoulders look extra fucking cool, right? I'm already prown to rounding over. Like I need to be walking around like this. But if you're already prone to being a little more hunched. If your rear delt game is subpar relative to your front delts, then you're really just going to get a fucking hunched over look. But the fact that they're so buffed up in the back and pumps right now. Like even being a little hunched, they still have the fucking solid form tool. And then like staying upright. It's like I don't even have tricep. I rear delts are just the fucking, I'll just the star of the show. But let's see how they look in some back poses. Cool, my goodness. Yeah. And then they're really just capping off the top of my lats and everything else there. So, all in all, I'd say it's a damn freaking good shoulder pump. That's a roll. That's freaking scram. So this just fucking perplexity. Honestly, I can't wrap my head around the fact that we live in a world where you can watch the Warhammer 40K episode of Secret Level. Or you could watch the, like the Kianu Reeves, like even Gellian, robot kind of fucking laser sword fight. Those are, yeah, I'm telling you, Secret Level, you gotta look that shit up, it's cool. But live in a world where somebody can watch that. Think to themselves, that's kind of cool. And not use it as hype to have a badass fucking lift. I mean, it's terrible. I can't even imagine it, because it's like, if you don't have some kind of physical outlet on the regular, and it doesn't have to be the gym, it can be anything, I don't even know. Or, I mean, it could be whatever. It could, you know, I go down this rabbit hole, but speech a lot. But it could be fucking making music. It could be making art. It could be sculpting. It could be whatever. It could just be, you'd be getting in woodworker. You know, if there's a million niche little interest in hobbies and things you can get into, which requires a method. And if you're excited about something, you do it so much better. And I think that's the fucking most valuable part of media. And by that, I mean, like movies and shows and everything else is that it's like, just this romanticization romanticization of regular life, where it can get you extra fucking excited, you know? Like, even the ones that aren't insanely over the top, like if you're watching the marks watching now, it's been a while. I got like maybe stiff to your show episode to deep into Epo, right, it's like this boxing show. Dude, it's just, it's cool to see like a story like that, where there's suspense in this drama, there's like, there's hard training in there's regrets, and just like, that's things that like I want to live. And the work and out of such an awesome outlet, really, I think, is it so physical that it's like, it's very, I really do think primal is a good fucking word, you know? Because it's, you really just fucking express in yourself, you know? Because if all you do is you walk around all day and you play on your phone or you, you say to your desk, you whatever your job is, or you go to school, you go to class, you come back and, you know, like, do anything. You just like, you're watching things happen, you're doing like, kind of busy work. Honestly, so much of just like, school and regular day-to-day stuff is just pure busy work. Like, that's where I'm extra jealous of all the, our mixed, endvious of all, like, the self-employed kind of guys, where they're doing like their own thing. It's like, they're not just, like, it doesn't feel like working when you're doing something like that. Because they're excited to do it, and you're working directly for the end result, that you get back, you know? So if you don't have something like that to get excited about, days can really blend together. It's just kind of sucks, right? So with the work and at least, I'm not going to go so far as the Tom Platt Speedtore is like, I attribute every muscle to an emotion, like Biceps Ranger. Triceps were hatred, like I'm not thinking about it that crazily, but it really is a sick, maybe not a scape as a good work, but like release, you know, because whatever kind of just anything that you get building up over your day, it's somewhere you just get it all out. It's just you, nobody's watching you or if they are watching you, it's like some of your boys, whatever, but it's like, do you in the weights, you get to go hard? And there's nothing else that, you know, in a regular guy's day that it's like that, right? It's all just kind of like a days ago, you know, watching the videos about Funko Pop collections are just, you know, keeping up with the Hock-2 of Scandal. Like that's not what life was meant to be. You know, keep it, you got to get a little more down to Earth and just get focused on your focus on these two things. You got here, your fucking hands. And now, I'm totally unrelated, no, I just, I was just thinking this dude. I, you know, this tangent is completely unrelated, but I do try to think about this a lot, just to put good energy out in the world is like, I am constantly grateful. I got two work in hands and half of that is because, well, not even half, I think about that a lot because of like two summers ago or something, I totally sliced my whole thumb pad open when I was cutting open this plastic five gallon barrel of paint for when I was working for the city. And I was not executing proper safety, or proper cutting etiquette at all. Like, literally, if someone recorded me, put my hands where they were knife in like a stabbing kind of hold here, pushing directly towards this hand. I mean, it was blatantly stupid on my part. But I was, I mean, you know, a confection of grab shit for a month, at least nothing that involved my thumb at all. So that's something I do kind of think about. But, you know, you get your hands on something, push yourself and it's for you. It's not for anybody else, it's not because anybody told you to do it. It's because you get to enjoy it, right? So that's where I think the coolest shit is, things which do not have a round about like, path until you reach your satisfaction. So things like the work and out, you want to go work out, you go enjoy your work out, you finish a hard one and you get to come back and you say, well, I had a good work out today. Sweet. Maybe it action response. You did something and you got a response from it in your mind and you said, that was fun. I like doing that. I feel good from doing that. Sweet. I mean, there's really no negative. It's all positives. But the same guy can come to the gym, do a workout, come back. But his mindset can be very different because instead of a immediate action feedback of, I did my workout, I feel good because I did it. Some guys will get a little bit funky in their mind where they don't have the direct link to the enjoyment of that action and they, you know, okay, I want to go work out. So that I can show her, like the classic girlfriend broke up with you, trope, which I think that's going to be pretty locked into the world of fitness, basically forever. I mean, I'm sure there's some old, like Ethiopian scripture where it's like, you know, I don't know any old female names of that to make this reference, like historically accurate, but it's like written on a tablet. Melissa left me for a larger villager. I lifted this stone four weeks later or like something crazy. I don't know. Like I'm sure some shit like that exists somewhere from all the way back then. Like that's not going anywhere. But I don't think that's an awesome approach or like, you know, doing it to get, like somebody else's approval or, I mean, the classic, you know, you're kind of bullied for being an out of shape dude from beginning kind of thing because now instead of working out and getting a feedback positively in your own mind, you're working out and then you're thinking, okay, I did this workout. And then you're kind of not even getting a positive feedback. You're sort of like hoping that, okay, I did this. Oh, man, I hope that I get there approval later. And it's like, you don't even get the response because it's all just trying to feed into like pleasing somebody else. So it's, it's just not cool. Right. So the more direct you can be with your enjoyment of things, the better. Because if you don't then you're just fucking, you know, you're a leaf in the wind, you know, you're just being blown along by trying to meet the expectations of anybody around you or any, you know, any, maybe a thwarted figures. And it's like you're not even living your own life. You're just like trying to conform to everybody else, you know, like apart from some of the craziness, that's a cool ass Kanye quote. Or he's like, if, if you try to get every question right or if you try to answer everything right in your life, then every day is a test. And when were you the most fucking stressed out when you're in school? You know, I'm saying, right? So you get a, and of course, you're not just born thinking like this. It kind of comes with age a little bit. But that's where I think everybody needs to have a certain moment of realization of autonomy, where, you know, when you're in school, you, or when you're a kid, you don't have a choice. Right? And you're parents, putting school, that's what you do. You get some kind of summer job, you go to, you actually go to college, you do this, whatever, like, you just, you follow in the path. And you're kind of just being pushed along it. But eventually you got to have a moment where you like, holy crap. I'm alive. I'm in control of everything that I do. If I do anything cool, then it's because of what I do. And if I screw everything up, it's kind of my fault, too. Damn it. You know, it's kind of a sort of responsibility, right? Because now it's, you're on your own. And for some guys that happens a lot earlier than others, like anybody where, like you got booted out of the house, like you're 18, get here. It's definitely a point where things can get a little bit more unfair. But it's going to happen eventually. And the sooner the better I feel, right? Because if you're, like, perfectly coddled, then, you never reach that point. And, you know, I'm sure you know, somebody who's, they, especially kind of my demographic right now. There's a lot of guys where they never moved out for school, because college all went online, and then they've been living with the parents the whole time. And then, you know, now it's like, when are they going to move out? Right? It's like the at home 30 year old is making a research. You know, but now I'm, no, I'm just getting into random ass fucking lifestyle talk. That was a good lift. They didn't have a, there was no lake press in there, so I'm just going to add calves in with, after cardio in the morning. But shoulders pump the help, or pump the heck. And now I'm going to do go home, eat about a pound of ground beef with some low sugar ketchup, and then go to sleep. Nine o'clock, hoping I'm hoping I hit the sack before 11, and then I get to wake up early for some long cardio tomorrow. I'm, I'm changing on my approach. I, I think 45 minutes or upwards of even past 35 on the seated bike is a little bit much on my legs. Like, I can tell my legs, specifically, are getting, like, fatigued from doing the bike. So, and now what I've been doing is 30 minutes on the bike, and then moving on and jumping onto the treadmill for another 15. Just a three mile an hour walk at like a five-ish or something, percent inclined. Like, nothing crazy, but, you know, keep track of my heart rate. I should just bring, I should just start wearing the apple watch against, so I can track it. But heart rates still stays up in the 130s, or mid 130s, up at like 140 or so. So, that's what I'm aiming for. And then, I, I think I'll just add more to that, because the bike gets a little hard. Like, past 30 minutes, you're kind of, like, it definitely feels like you're pedaling. But, you know, doing 30 minutes of the bike, and then doing another 25, or I'll probably end up doing another 30 on the treadmill, just to kind of see how it feels for me. But that's not so bad. Okay, plus it, I mean, if you've got a show that you want to watch, you just put that up on the, put your phone up on the stand, and sit there, get into a little bit of a trance. I mean, your cardio's going to pass like fucking nothing. And then you can feel a little bit better about, like, waist and time playing in your fallen cause you're not waist and time. I can actually do something. But, either way, that is a perfect ender today, 68 of this dieting phase. One, half a percentage body fat leaner. I'm sure that's a reasonably accurate, guess maybe 0.2% either way. Well, on track to dice it, but holding time will tell really. So, I don't see it tomorrow for what I presume to be a moderately heavy like day. I don't want to go too crazy, but I'm definitely going to definitely go and do some damage in a stimulating way, not in a nightly way, at least not until I'm, you know, bulking up again in a couple of months. So, I'll just see you then.

There we go. So I've got two plans for tonight. Plan number one, get a nasty arm, I'm saying nasty arm pump, get a nasty leg pump, kind of alternating style. I'm thinking leg curls then quads and curls then already, you know, back and forth between quads and hymns so that at the end of it I can have fully pumped legs and also just dieting down in general. The pump itself is a bit more fleeting, you know, and I've had to zilch for carbs that I think I'm macro counts of ours like 150 grams of protein, 40 of carbs and 30 of fats. Not much what you would kind of describe is fuel. All right muscle lifting wise. If I had 500 grams of carbs so far today, I think I would feel significantly different, right? Physically as well as, well, I guess subjectively as well as physically like I'd be pumped out of my freaking mind to the point where I buddy even feel like my quads are going to get new stretch marks just from the glycemic effect of being full like that. But that's not for today. That's for months in the future. Shouldn't even think about it. And then after that, you're going to make a grocery store stop. So that's going to be its own video. That's not going to be connected to this. But I guess I didn't think about it at first but I'm not really getting as many groceries now that I'm dieting down. You know, that's like if I got some canned meats, a bunch of frozen beef, steaks, ground beef, everything else, egg, egg whites to get the egg whites and cartons. Food just fucking last, you know, when you're eating, I mean, honestly right now, I'm at like nearly a third of the cloric intake as I have been at like my peak consumption. So it's like I'm stretching three days of food into one or one day of food into three, which is kind of freaking wild. But either way, I wanted to, I wanted to kind of put my mind or put myself into the mind of the leg day skipper. Because it's a hard thing for me to wrap my, for me to wrap my mind around. You know, because you're just like, I can't even do it. Like I can't even, I can't even fucking describe what it would be like to be somebody is fucking constantly skipping legs. Because you really are just missing out, you know. And I think it's, it's one of the most abrupt or least abrupt muscles that you can change because they're big. They take a while to train. The training itself is pretty fucking difficult and it's not so cool. You know, like I'm at a point now where I think the leg pump is fucking cool. But especially as a beginner, I mean, you're what you can be way more interested in like seeing a bicep pump but it's shoulder day and like being physically extra big and your torso, like that's usually what we think about the support structure, right? Your trunks, not so much. So I mean, I see I can wrap my head around it, right? If I actually try to look at it or objectively, it's hard. You're huffing and puffing. If you push legs to failure at least, or at least like you're in that 90% intensity range on most of your sets, it's going to take a lot out of you. And you're kind of wearing pants all the time anyway, you know? So it's like they're not really out there to be seen. You got to have some crazy ass leg genetics for somebody to say, holy crap man, your legs are fucking huge. Right? Usually it's always shoulders back, chest arms. They don't get as much love as they should. But if you do plan on getting into the work out for more than just a little while, which hopefully that's everybody, especially if you're watching this now, then do. The leg training is where it's at. Because it's almost like, uh, it's almost, I kind of feel like the fact that it's hard is where a lot of the value lies. You know? Because I thought about trying to split up legs into two days, like hamstrings in the morning, like maybe don't do cardio on a leg day or do like a do cardio after hamstrings in the morning, and then they save quads for it, you know? At night, so I got two lifts, like I'm lifting the same amount of time for the day, but it's not so much all at once, you know? Like doing an hour of cardio straight is a bit harder than doing 30 minute sessions of cardio, spread a part, you know, at least in terms of a like execution style. But it just doesn't work, you know? And I can't throw in hamstrings with back or arms because then it just feels really at a place. You know, the only muscle that it should uh, or at least for me that I feel like it should be trained with is quads, right? They gotta be paired up. And then, right, that's what kind of, that's sort of the positive and the negative, you know? Because it's fucking, it'll take a little bit atty. I've, uh, hemmed in hot about trying to somehow figure out a way to make it easier, but there's just nothing. There's no way to do it, right? It simply is what it is. But that's just the nature up. And what I'm trying to get at is like, when somebody asks me like, what's my favorite muscle group to train? I would probably have to pick chest just because at the end of it, I look probably the coolest because I got a chest pump sick. My arms are residually pumped from all the pressing and the bicep tension from doing flies. My shoulders are getting some activation just from like holding and stabilizing and everything else. So the end of a chest pump is almost like just straight up towards a pump, right? So it's, it's extra cool there. And it's only one muscle group takes me like 30 minutes to do. So it's, like, it's short and sweet. Short and basically extra sweet. And who doesn't like chest, right? But that doesn't take away from any other body part because I still like arms. It's a little bit longer than chest because it's a two muscle groups. But an arm pump is especially as I continue to get leaner. Like, it almost, well, is, I'm not that lean yet. But when my arms are fully pumped and I'm extra lean and slim in the midsection, it's almost to the point right? Like, look at myself and I think, oh my arms are too big right now. Relative to the rest of me. And that's how a pump should be, right? You should be a racing issue. Like a temporary state of size where you're like, holy crap. I did not normally fucking look like this. So chest is cool all around. Very evenly distributed stats. But the stakes are low. I can kind of get a good chest pump or if you just left me alone in a room with nothing, I can get a chest pump and do some pushups. Bit harder to get like an arm pump in a room without the branching. But arms is in a pretty similar state with chest and obviously so it's back. And then shoulders too. It's almost done too, at least for me now because they're so big and developed. Like, I just have to hit them every so often as the end of it. But legs, the cool part is half in doing it and half in having done it. Right? Because it's like, what gives things value? Typically scarcity. So how many people actually hit legs extra fucking hard? And if you've got at least a little hint of a chip on your shoulder is a lifter, then doing things that not a lot of other people are willing to do is cool. That is the flex for you yourself. Because you get to think like, you know, I'm fucking dying. Right? You just re-rack a, uh, hopefully like a five-plate squat for 10. Like physically it's an uncomfortable sensation. Your damn near like, at a breath exhausted. Your quads or your central nervous system is going nuts. Like it's just simply hard. If it were up to your body, it would tell you, don't do this shit. What? Go relax. But it's the fact that your mind can say like, yeah, nobody else is willing to do this. And then you get that kind of like, uh, I don't want to say massacistic, but there's probably a little bit of overlap there with knowing, okay. That was hard. I went hard. Now done. Then you get to sit the car, scrolls on Instagram, it really is for a couple of minutes, and drive off into the sunset. Or given the, it's man. I am still not used to it being pitch black at six o'clock at night. That's ridiculous. That's what my mind. But he gets a ride off into the night, knowing you killed him. And then after a while, your legs are going to show it. Right? You're going to start to see in separation between tear drop and that, like, get lateral head and the, and that lateral head won't be caught. Lateral insertion, the outside sweep of your quad, and then you can see that little like, medial, femoralists, something or other like that, you know, but it does take a one. And that's, uh, you know, that's something where I can't pinpoint exactly like what sort of tip I could say about it. But, you know, if you're looking anybody who's got something you want, or if you're looking at anybody who is somewhere you want to be, then I'd say overarching traits is that they did that thing, or they'd practice that thing. Every day, or at least very consistently, you know, five days a week, six days a week, four years on it. So the main difference between you and them apart from fucking time is that they're doing the shit on the regular. They're clocking in hours. And ideally, it won't even feel like work because you enjoy it, especially these lifts like, I don't come to the gym and thank you. I'm putting in that work today. It's like, I want bigger legs. I like training. Everything's just kind of hit me right, you know, but looking at it, kind of long term, guys who get shit done simply takes small steps every day, indefinitely. You know, I'm getting close to I think like 2,200 lifts in a row or so. Like the macro track or my phone, it's got 1,200 and like 70 days tracked. Like you can't just fast forward that process, but you can hop on to the train and then you're, you'll be on track. I didn't, yeah, you see physically be on track there, you know. But it's, so that's where it's not necessarily an awesome idea, I feel to try to compare yourself with anybody who's like crazy ahead of the game in terms of whatever results you're aiming for because they've been doing it for five more years than you, you know. That's like trying to, that's like the, you know, asking if, I'm telling it was my training thought. Well, who's going to be smarter, right? A fifth grader or the fucking 12th grader, right? Or the guy who's like a senior in college and don't bring up, are you smarter than a fifth grader? That's, those are just random GMG, uh, geographically questionnaires. That's not real, like knowledge. You know, so it's simply a winning game and anybody who is comfortable with cardio on the regular, lifting on the regular calorie counting and either restriction or like making sure you hit specific goals on the regular than they're on track and they know it. So what's extra cool is, once you get that support structure in place, you're no longer thinking okay, will I be able to make these gains? Will I be able to reach the goals that I'm aiming for? Like, if somebody can stick to a calorie deficit, work out, do their cardio on the regular, get good amount of sleep, stay hydrated, and not let anything mess up their routine, then it's not a question of if it's simply a question of when. And that's what I like the most about the working out because you, uh, you can get a pretty damn serious amount of control over the back end because it's all you. It's completely individual. You know, nobody's going to, nobody's going to push you into it, nobody's going to really stop you from doing it, at least as long as you don't let them, you know. If you got, if you live in a household that isn't really lifted friendly, you know, like everybody's eaten, not to sugarcoat it, just like trash, nobody works out. It can be kind of hard to break away from that pattern. So if that's you, like, you know, command you for getting after it. But it's simply a question of how long are you going to stick with it, and then then you almost get to think, all right, is this something I really want to do? Not something like, do I really want to see if I can do it? It's like, all right, I know I can do it. Should I, or should I not? You know, you're sitting at the damn menu of, uh, some kind of restaurant. It's not like, will I be able, uh, if I were to mistake, will they be able to make it? It's like, no, they'll do it. You know, you'll be able to make this, this kind of shit happen. But it's simply, uh, now I'm just going to circle saying the same shit over and over again. I'll finish it with this. We all know it, right? What's going to happen? If you take a guy who's never worked out before, and then over the course of three years, he worked out near every day. Let's just say six days a week with a rest day. Did his cardio learned about tracking macros? What do you think is going to happen? I, uh, I can predict it pretty easily, and I think you can, too, to the point where I think it's not even worth saying. Goes without saying. But let's, uh, let's stop chatting. Go make this leg thing, it's starting. Let's get real with a controlled squeezing set of seated curls. And then we can go from there. Oh, This again. Oh my god. Holy crap. One more thing. You know, when I was warming up, how has he been ready to do the full stack? I didn't even do it in two, two, fifty is a bit much. Two, thirty-five is the sweet spot number for this. Yeah. No, I can't. Okay, I gotta. All right. Let's move on to Lake Extension and then keep this back and forth going. So with these Lake Extension, I have two goals in my mind. Starting at myself pumped. Obviously, that's basically a goal. Every set. But secondary to that, or maybe probably balanced in my value is I want to prime my quads for what's next. I'm honestly starting to get a little itch for some barbell squats. Not like heavy, so I've ever done, but maybe a little bit lighter. I'll see if I end up following through that, or if I think it might be a bad move. But either way, with these Lake Extension, I'm gonna go for a little bit of a back and forth. Probably 10 rep, 10 rep, 10 rep, and then burnout with five reps alternating. I just seem dirty. I like it and I can go harder doing it. Like if I were to sit here and try to do a full straight set to failure, it's almost like I can't go as hard as I can when I give them a little bit of rest pause action. I like saying it like this, a straight set, this is fresh, this is petite. You basically shoot straight towards fatigue linearly, but doing these sort of pause rep styles are alternating kind of a rest pause set. It's like the left leg is getting fatigued, and it gets a little bit of rest. It gets fatigued, and a little bit of rest. Something about it just works for me. And as a starter set, absolutely perfect. So let's just make this shit up. Nah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Much. Oh, my gosh. Yeah. One more, just like that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. This little block is perfectly placed for some self assistance. Now, I don't need help on the way down, but help on myself get the weight up and let go and ride the force. That's solid. Let's just take one step to the right. Get some land curls going before the next set of pressing. Now, these will be similarly executed as the seated curls earlier, but even a little bit lighter. So I really want this squeeze to burn. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. One more, the same way. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. All right. Let's go press something. Only four plates, but I want the sets to be nuts. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. That was good. One more like that. Oh, give us a. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. Oh, I can't. I'll start using a little too much lower back and glutes. Let's switch the plate for 25. Do one more.5000 yeah Holy crap. Yeah, hamstrings are freaking. Dog. I think let's finish with some leg extensions. Maybe some leg press superset in TBD. Quads are, and I quads with legs are coming along well to make. Team exec style is right in the beginning. Some alternating five-web sets. First that'll be heavy. Then action might be a little lighter. We'll just have to see. Alright. Now it's next set. that has a strong potential to be in. This one will be a little bit different in execution. Instead of just throwing the shit around, which is definitely wrecking my quads, slow second-ish hold at the top, then down. So, the reps are slower, you manifest the teeth all, feel for me, trep is more, so my fatigue rate will be faster, at least on a rep by rep basis. There's a fight to say here, try to sling reps round, you probably do like 30 or more something. But if I do make sure so, I just long had to get squeeze on top, I thought I could accrue an image faster, but let's make the shit happen. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, my gosh. Time for a fucking post down. Or a freaking post down, I mean. Yeah. All right. Framewise should be just about freaking good. And those squats hit me extra hard. I'm sure if you're looking closely, you will have noticed that that second set actually had a little bit more umph behind it. The, whatever song I was listening to the time was really getting me going fucking nuts. So, right when I got onto the bar, you know, just give me that, now give me that classic squat sensation, which honestly, I don't get from any other movement. Like, I've done crazy heavy bench. I've done like some pretty insane sets of rows and like super whatever, but I, uh, I guess maybe if I did heavy dead lifts, I might get the same sensation, but there's nothing that gives me that same like anxiousness, heart pumping excitement as a barbell squat. Smith squat just doesn't do it. And maybe it's something about the danger factor. Because you're never really going to hurt yourself through with Smith squats unless you really, just screw it up, right? But let's, uh, let's stop chatting and just actually seeing how legs are looking at me. Oh my goodness. Reason when we have a separation. Oh, so that's what I'm really in before. I want the back of my hamstring to really round itself over like that. I'm getting better opposing it. So, by smushing my leg into itself, I'm kind of making it appear larger. But half of that is also just, get bigger hamstrings, right? Because there's almost a certain roundness over the backside as well as the front with the quads. Oh my goodness. But I'm really feeling the deficit now. Oh crap. Let's say the rest of this post-lift discussion for the car. Get out of here. Okay, and that should all mean work in just a minute right now. So that was a good one. That was quite, yeah. That was barbell squat there, if I could sweet. I can't believe there's a time when I did not even, well, it took me a little while to get into it. I'm not going to sit here and try to say, yeah, you're not doing, you're not doing, like, multiple sets of barbell squats and you're like, days really? Can you kidding me? Like, no, I'm not going to sit here and say that. Nor do I think should I? Squats are kind of tricky to get into. It's not just like, all right, grab the bar do it. There's most certainly a learning curve, which is to be expected. I mean, they're tricky. You get a lot of shit going on. You know, the amount of, like, moving parts of a leg press, not that many. You know, trying to roll your back and have a good brace, but that's it. All you do is bend your legs and then straighten whereas with, with a squat, dude. You got to keep your balance. You got the weight loaded at basically the highest position possible on your body. And then when you go to, you know, actually load it, you're, I mean, here's wobbly as you can fucking be. The only way you could get wobbly or would be if you were doing, like, overhead squats, where you were holding the bar, like, an Olympic lifter, which is, I mean, that's like totally its own freaking thing. But, here's wobbly as you can be. You got to use your lower back, you got to take good breaths and brace, you got to be, you know, and then you're, what do they call it? Keep your girdle strong, so you don't just mean it, crumple yourself. I mean, we've all seen the squat fails, the squat fails. Frankly, they, they kind of get my stomach turning, like, I don't even want to watch those videos when I see them because it's like man. Yish. You know, if you ever see somebody squatting with that safety, that is not something to be emulated. I can't stress that if freaking enough. But it's tricky. It takes a while to get into, right? So in no way am I trying to say, like, you know, barbell squat. Lose our, but I do think there is a crazy value to the barbell squat. And half of it is because of how much activation you get from it because, like, yes, there is obviously value to, okay, I'm doing bodybuilding style training. I should be much more isolated with my movements, leg extension, leg press. I'm not using a lot of other stuff. You know, I literally stopped a few of those sets of RDLs because I started to use my glutes and my lower back too much. So, yeah, I mean, usually it's okay. I have a targeted muscle. I only want to hit that muscle and minimize all other activation. But there's something about the overarching load of the squat. And the fact that you are, I mean, basically built for it, in a sense. Your legs are meant to keep your body moving around. If you want to bend down and let's go back old school, you're pillaging, right? You're foraging whatever else. You got to jump to do whatever, like, that's what your legs are meant to do, man. So, loading them in that way. You know, I don't expect to be saying this. Very primal training, right? I'm talking maybe not exactly a liver king style, but it's kind of what your legs are meant to do, right? I mean, all, at least, most movements, you can kind of relate back to just, you know, you're meant to push ship. You're meant to pick ship and pull it. Or you're meant to, you know, it's just what you meant for. It's very rare in nature, I guess, that you'd be sitting on a, on a leg extension machine doing burnout reps. But apart from that approach, with some guys really get into that a lot. And they're like, only functional movements on it. I don't necessarily subscribe to that ideology so much. But all I'm trying to get at is the squat is like, I mean, it's the bench press for your legs, you know, there is something about it. And again, I think it's half of the, what I was saying earlier about, like, the value of things is often correlated with it's scarcity. Very rare, you see anybody squatting heavy, you know, because it takes a while to reach a point where you can squat heavy. There was a guy next to me, I don't want to just like clip him or anything. But he was doing, I think, like, some four plate front squats. I think he was doing some four plate front squats for reps. You know, if he can show on me up, I'm doing back squats. You know, I'm doing the easier version. But all that's to say is, there's something about the squats that just can't be emulating to be, you know, and be it like emotional, be it the fact that you really use your entire, like you get your whole center of nervous system firing, because it's such a, like, I mean, I'm sending signals to my entire body during that set of squats, which good or bad thing, like, if you put little probes on my forearms on my biceps, I'm a triceps, I'm a chest, my lats, my lower back, and my abs, and everything, because you get to stay, you know, pretty tight, so you don't hurt yourself. It's just an awesome movement, you know, now, is it the best for quad growth? What does that question even mean? You know, obviously I'm so going to do leg extensions. I'm still going to do leg press. But the barbell squat, there is something to it, which cannot be emulated. Even by smith machine squats, you know, smith machine squats are closed. They're not bad. I do like them. And the stability that they provide is very nice for getting into the squat and sort of learning it. But I think reaching a point where you can barbell squat consistently is something to strive for. And by barbell squat consistently, I mean, you know, do legit working sets on the regular and not hurt yourself every time. So another way to look at that statement is don't try to max out every leg day with an insane amount of weight and get crumbled. I've had to do that before. I mean, I didn't have to, but I did anyway where a guy who's like, you know, same what going for a PR, you want to come help swap me. You know, and we got three dudes spot in the student who's doing way too much weight, like five plates too much weight. And let's just say, if I were a betting man, right, if that rep was something you could look at on sports books, yeah, I think I would stack it against his favor, unfortunately. Intimately got smushed. At least we had the safety, I'm like, you know, a foot and a half level height. But if you push yourself to a point where you do in a hard set of squats, you know, ten reps, eight reps, minimum, and you're at a reasonable weight. Let's say, I mean, I don't remember what weight I started with with my squats. I, um, I guess I'm glad I don't have an on video. But when I started working out, I mean, I'm talking back soft more, or I guess the summer after my sophomore year of high school, that's when I got, I had my dad buy me a, think these weight stands to put the basement, because we already had a barbell and plates and dumbbells and a bench, like an adjustable bench just from, you know, my dad had him. But we didn't have a rack or anything, so we had these hundred, like, hundred dollar weight stands. Super fucking dangerous. If you're going to get like a rack for the house, get a full on like, cageed rack with safety bars, because I mean, there's some pretty tragic incidents that happen with an unsafe setup for bench and squat, you know, unsupervised environment. But what I'm trying to get at is, like, my, I could do maybe a plate, and I think I tried to do maybe 200 pounds, untrain, like, this is, me just trying to mess around, do some one rep maxes in the basement at 16. And if it wasn't for the safety, that were like a foot and a half off the ground, so it, like, barely caught the bar before it smushed me. I don't know what could happen there. But, you know, obviously you gotta start somewhere, you know, so even if you're starting weight for a set of 10 to squats is a plate, that's badass, because two weeks later, you know, get yourself excited, make sure you're well rested, try a plate, and a 10. Two weeks later, try a plate, and then, even 15 extra on the side. Then before you know it, plate and 25 plate and a 35, two plates and a 10, two plates and a 10, two plates and a 10, it's 20. And you just move your way up from there. Now, there's slow improvements, but they are improvements nonetheless. Like the heaviest that I've ever squatted is not necessarily because I was stronger, or, I mean, definitely not because I was bigger. It's when I could just squat consistently without hurting myself, right? If every squat session that I had, I could come in and push myself to the max, finish your heart, say, to squats, come back home, recover, then come back for the next leg day, whatever that was scheduled. At a 10, at a 5, at a 25, if I'm feeling really crazy that day, and shim in, before you know it, you're going to be hitting PRs reasonably regularly. Now, it might just be one extra rep without, without, without weight, you know, like, let's say you're rep in 315 for 10. You're really getting yourself excited, I want to live in it. I freaking want to live in today. Come on, you get your song playing, you have 13. Boom, you've literally broken in a new ground, and looking back, I mean, I remember when I first benched 315, I remember when I first did, like, I did 450 once at my college gym, that was, and my butt came off the bench too, so that was kind of a scrappy rep, I wouldn't really count it. But like, those 1 rep maxes I've done did not even give me as much enjoyment as like 10 rep maxes or new rep PRs with certain weights, like, frankly, I think the 1 rep maxes fucking overrated. Now, if you have power lifter, different story, that's your thing, but for the general lifter dude, I'm thinking, like, I want the 10 rep PR to be a new ballpark, or to be a new, what's the real thing? To be a new, like, a new staple rep presentation of strength, right? Like 275 for 1, whatever, 225 for 10, or 250 for 10, that is a real ass number. And then, you're not going to hurt yourself, because you're not overloading your body with so much weight that you never ever do in your daily life. And it's actually a good set. Like, anytime somebody 1 rep maxes in a workout, like, okay, I'm going to do quads today, but I want to start with a 1 rep maxes of squats. Like, all that work that you did to do that 1 rep max, I don't think much of that was really effective working sets. And now, if you said, okay, today for quads, I want to do a 10 rep max. I want to, I want to pick a weight I've never done for 10 before, even if it's only 5 times above what you've ever done, you know, previously, then that set, that PR that you just hit actually did have some stimulating value. That's a, that's my little message here. I want the 10 rep PR to be the new, to be the new goal. That would be pretty freaking cool. But either way, solid leg day, those barbell squats are really getting me excited. Those are going to stay. I just have to try my best not to go too heavy right now, because obviously, diving down, I don't have the same recoverability as I would fully bulked plus, you know, if I tweak my quad right now, it's, that's just because I'm being stupid and I go too heavy. So I think four plates felt pretty pretty much within reason, not too heavy, but heavy enough where we still have you set. So now I get to go home feeling like I did, like, go stand in the car, you know, those sets of squats were hard. I sat down, I had to puff up for a minute, get my, you know, reset on myself, but in doing so, like, oh, he grabbed that fucking hard. All right, get up, do it again, you know, like that's the fun part. And for the uninitiated, you know, for the non-lifter, they don't see the appeal, you know, they don't get it. And I don't blame them, because from an outside perspective, what do you, I couldn't even imagine what somebody who doesn't work out to think about somebody who, like, you know, squats like that for fun, or for, you know, further on enjoyment, but we know, we understand the freaking value. So I'm going to make sure I get a good night's rest, not overshoot my calorie limit, which is really my primary goal. Oh, right now, and then get ready for a solid chest day tomorrow, which I think I'm going to get some dumbbell bench going, but I'm going to head to the store. So it's, I guess, you wouldn't be watching tomorrow, because for you, it would be today, but either way, that'll be a double upload. So little grocery haul should be the video either right before or right after this in the, in the queue. I got to, I got to organize all these in a playlist. I'll try to do that tomorrow too, but either way, I will see you in the free grocery cart.

This was almost a planet fitness chest day, but yeah, someday. Damn. It was really hoping it was like two stairs or something. Planet fitness dropped the freaking ball. Honestly, it used to be 24 hours, 24 or seven. Now it's like, I'm even spoiled with the one I've got. They only close at nine on the weekend. I'm in Friday. I've seen a couple where they actually shut down a like six or even five. Not fucking cool. So what other anytime gym is there? I think we know the one. So that'll be good. That will be good. Last chest day was some little bit too heavy incline Smith as the starter movement. So for this one, I want to change it up a touch. I think I've got an inch for some cable press. So still, I mean, a reasonably heavy press, right? But slightly different. Because with this instead of really trying to load up a ton of freaking weight, it's going to be a bit more controlled squeezing. So it's like instead of starting a tricep day with crazy, heavy skull crushers or like close grip bench, really just trying to maximize how much force and tension physically feeling that's kind of what I'm doing with a really heavy press for chest. It's really starting with a lighter, rope extension, much more squeeze emphasized and the difficulty from the reps doesn't come from simply doing them like it's hard as you can. It comes from really having a deep kind of methodical flex on the top. And then just repeating that as many times as possible. So that's something which I think I don't emphasize enough is of course it's going to be a good set to pick a heavy weight and go to failure around eightish reps, minimum. Even a heavy set of like 14, it's still pretty solid. And if you go above or beyond those numbers, it's not like you're suddenly making no games. That's just kind of the ballpark estimate. I like to stick between first and heavy sets. I think that's a great set of just move the weight around. So as much as I like three plates on the incline barbell for 12 or something with maybe two assisted reps, I also like a lighter set of cable press converging to half the stack ish for like 20 and then hitting failure that way. So that's sort of the key component which balances out all sets in terms of style, movement, everything else is no matter if you're doing a heavy set of 12 or lighter squeezing set of 20 or maybe like a rest pause set of like 5, 5, 5, 5 or 7, 7 or whatever. Over archingly I want all of those sets to have one thing in common. I go as hard as I can and at least approach failure. And that's a little bit of a convoluted term now which it totally shouldn't be. It should just be basic like muscular failure is you can't do another rep but it's uh there's a lot of talk of all it's you know you should leave three reps in reserve or you know I never trained a failure even like you know sorts of characters are weighing in order and frankly I'm going to be out of the under the position of go as hard as you can most of the time. If you know that there's benefit for you to do some pump-ish style sets like at the end of this chest deck when I once I've finished some heavy pressing or you know maybe some lighter squeezing pressing or whatever I've done most of the work of the workout and I want to finish the set off with some pump work and really try to just fill my chest up with as much blood as possible from post down as well as just for the benefits of all the fucking extra blood flow of being pumped on its own then I might do a set of cable press where it's a lightish weight and I'm really just getting a big stretch and hard squeeze at the bottom for 15 or so and it's not to failure. It's sort of just a set to like satisfaction now and it's and it's just like that of course but I don't need to go to failure but for most of your working sets most of the work of the workout it's leaving anything in the tank I see that as a negative and barring like oh my shoulders kind of I got to ease into it for my knees like assuming all is well health-wise shoulders feel good all you're doing through all right and you're about to do a set of you know hammer strength press you get to five reps okay you're feeling it you get to eight reps all right I get to hold at the top and take a breath for a second before I do these next two you do two with a breath in between they would go okay I can maybe do two more maybe let's rack it I consider that at least a small oh at least to a small degree some level of failure and not muscular failure you know so that's where I'm much more interested in the guys who really push themselves with the training because that's not something you which you can just listen to like some workout tutorial video and they're gonna explain like I think it's so strange that all of the working out tips that get talked about it's always purely like form execution how should your sets look it's I never hear about like how should your sets feel and like how excited should you be about it and like you got to really just like go nuts when you're actually doing this this uh trying not to swear as much of you but I never hear that I almost never hear like run hype and excitement talked about at least you know except for like an ego gym screaming kind of edit but that's a I don't think that really counts that's that's just generalized height but if you were to take two guys doing the exact same workout written out form you know I guess if you wanted to make it really balanced you'd say 80% of your max or like somehow you could value it where it's like they were doing the same weight for every movement and it was like you know failure failure failure failure two epic nerves or whatever I don't know the guy who's really excited about what he's doing he's got his music plan he's really getting into his own before every set he has a couple seconds like like a little bit of excitement building before he goes after and then he makes it happen that guy is gonna go harder get a better workout get a better pump then the guy who does these sets with a much more calm state of mind and over time that is going to reflect in the results that the two guys get so as much as you as much value as there as there is and all the like you know make sure you do this perfect mezzo like dude the guys who train the hardest get the first and I guess you got to add one more caveat and the guys who train the hardest for the longest go the first you know because without that training the hardest part I mean I'm sure we've seen it there's guys in the gym where they've been working out doing the same workout routine the same lack of cardio routine the same you know maybe getting a decent amount of protein but not really leveraging they're diet very much so they're training for a long past time but are they really going as hard as they can you know so it's that's where you can do the exact same workout and in a years time be the exact same dude which I it's I hate to see it because if you already come to the gym you took your pre-workout you're taking your creativity you got all your multivivatives you're watching workout videos you're literally working out six days a week or however many days a week and you're not making gains you're doing 90% of everything right but you just got to push it past that extra 10 to really start to break through the barrier right like if somebody I guess what's a good estimate you know somebody can have a nine foot vertical there's still not going to touch your amp you know they could have a nine and a half foot vertical where's done you gotta hit that fucking threshold so I'm gonna get some music plan get extra freaking excited and amped up and let's let's go make this chest they happen as predicted incline cable press perfect start and you gotta be trick you this one because I'm not trying to go crazy heavy because if I do then I lose the complete point over what I'm trying to do here which is really squeeze like a mobile and if I overload it to like the full stack I'm gonna use so much front delts and we fucking stupid so let's just go nuts here hmm yum you YUM you you nuts you smoke one more just like that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Let's turn this into a respawn, actually. So, it's intervals of five. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. One more with the drops down. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. That was some good slowing controlled pressing. I think let's do a back and forth style. Pressing set, then a fly set, then a couple fly sets, and that'll probably be it. So, let's, I think some straight up peck deck is going to serve me nicely next. So, that was a very slow and controlled set of cable press. So, let's counter it with kind of a quicker basic set of flies. I'm not going to sit here and do a full one second hold and a two second eccentric. With this weight based on the feel of rep I just did. By the time I pumped out ten of these, I'm going to be doing tarials. And my main concern is the same thing in the pressing. I'm trying to keep from punching. There's the more I hunched the more front delta activate. So, I'm trying to really suck my shoulders back here. So, these flies look more like this instead of like this. But there's going to be some cable flies next, which are even more isolated for me. Let me just pick it up. Yeah. Cool. Come on. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. One more just like that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's do some machine press. So, when the trick I like doing every time I use a machine press like this is I add these plastic like clamp style clips in between like the the bumper of the arm and the upright. Because it gives me an extra inch or so and a half of range of motion. And, you know, as much as I'm walking myself into that joke, that is a big inch and a half. Like, if it weren't there, it would feel way too tight in the beginning. And I'd probably hurt myself. So, that little bit of a buffer gives me a much more natural starting position. And I can just get straight into it instead of half and like round over and wrench. Because that's how natural for me. Like, I'm never going that deep. So, why would I want to load that position to get the weight set up, you know? Like, you don't curl 100 pound dumbbells into position for a bench. You put them on your knees and you throw them up. So, no need to make the set harder before it even begins. But this would be a little more squeezing focused. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know. You're okay. Oh, crap. Let's make this next one of the drops it and run it up. Yeah. Okay. No. Okay. Let's finish with some cable flies. Three out of four movements done. I'm out of a light. I'm not sure I explicitly said it, but I was planning on two sets of cable flies here. But if this superset is as good as I think it's going to be, then that will be it. So portion one in front of the body flies with some upper chest bias, which once you get to the point where you can just like pop these things in command, it's not so, or it's easier to specifically kind of target like different portions of your chest. But I can get the bottom of it flex right here, but the top is still soft. Or if I raise my arm up and I kind of feel like I'm scooping my elbow inward and up. The now the top part is fucking tense and the bottom is still a little bit relaxed. So that's just, you know, mind most of the connection we all get the just kind of just comes with time. But first portion, we more upper chest focus flies. And I still feel my whole chest, but mainly upper is what'll be targeting. Weight light enough that I can do at least 10 reps quick with full range of motion before it breaks down to some partials. Then drop the weight by about half and finish with like a pump style set like I was talking about the car. I'm not going to go to complete muscular failure where I can barely move, but I will go until I feel like I've completely built my chest up with as much blood as possible. Then we go to the side room and see how they look. So let me, let me get this J-set it going again. I got to work season two of our cane season one, it's pretty good. You know. Yeah. Okay. Come on, come here. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. Let's pause down. I guess I just say we're pumped. Same thing. So, one, two, three, four, five, six. Seven set chest day. That's about freaking right. You know, any more volume at least today specifically. I don't think I'd be any more pumped. Any less? Probably wouldn't have been enough. I'm reaching, I'm okay. Let me finish my thought. But I'm almost kind of considering putting the pump checks on hiatus just so that I can have a little bit more abrupt, like lifts to lift changes in leanness that are actually more noticeable. But maybe that's just not even freaking necessary. Honestly, I feel pretty nuts right here. But let's, let's run through a couple. Woo. Woo. Woo. Woo. Woo. Woo. Kind of breathe a little bit less heavy when I do these. Oh, I get it. What else is there? Oh yeah. Class of glad spread. Oh my gosh. So, waste. Feeling particularly thinned out, especially compared to, I mean, just a few months ago. Okay. Now I gotta catch my breath and do one more though, so that's actually pretty cool. Oh. Oh, good. Well, I would say that's a pump more than, more than freaking achieved. Let me do one more side chest sort of old school style and then let's get out of here. Oh gosh. Well, that's what I mean for there. A good chunk of fucking striations, and especially paired with, I don't know, I trim waste. I don't see even just sitting there like that is kind of nuts. I mean, I mean, we'll be a little closer. There we go. Yeah. This is getting fucking crazy. Oh. Oh. I can tell I'm starting to break a sweat, even just by standing here, doing this posing. But this lift is not over. I'm gonna add a touch of cardio after these lifts from now on. Except for legs. Legs is gonna be hard enough on my lower body anyway. Adding some more cardio might just kind of stress my system. Is this? Yeah, it's backwards. So I'm thinking maybe just 15 minutes on the seat of bike. Nothing wild. That's not even really gonna feel that hard. But it is gonna add up. Because for me to do these 15 minutes, it's not gonna feel like much. But if I do this for the next four weeks, it's 28 days, time 15 minutes. Uh. Oh, what is that? Damn near seven hours of cardio? Actually, exactly seven hours of cardio. That's a lot. That is a freaking lot. And that's kind of the theme of working out at all. It's like just the small incremental unnoticeable acts adding up. And then over time, you get to say, holy crap, where it all means fucking games come from. But either way, I'll soon in the car, but now you can't fatten, play some crash royale on the bike. Oh, okay. I am ready for bed. You're gonna sleep. Maybe not exactly like a baby, because a baby is in a state of growth. I am in a state of, well, dining down. It's a slightly different, I'm not even slightly. Very different state of being, but you get the gist of what I'm getting after. I am gonna be sleeping hard. So postwork at meal? Oh, give us. Probably can make, I don't know. I don't know. I'm not gonna need just one big one I might have to sort of, maybe a bigger meal and kind of a snack issue me up before I go to sleep. But that's gonna look something along the lines of. Accumulatively about a pound of ground beef already cooked. I got a, I mean, five pounds of ones I got to sit in the Tupperware, which, when all you're really into the freaking ground beef, it kind of goes quick. But, some ground beef, some kind of sauce, low sugar to no sugar. I did some low sugar barbecue sauce earlier. I might change it up and do a little bit of burger style. That's where, I mean, just take a, some ground beef in a bowl. Catch up mustard, relish, low fat mania, maya, low fat mania. There's, I'd say, low fat mania, no. Low fat mani makes the whole kind of thing together. And then if I'm really feeling crazy, I'll grab one of the low carb buns and sort of make, like, deconstructed reconstructed burger ends up being pretty good. But, really, I'm trying to stay away from the low carb buns because, or the low carb tortilla is too, like, if I really want to eat something like that, then I will. But it just kind of, I mean, they're very fibrous. So, and by that, I mean, they have a lot of fibric, and I'm, so sometimes it can, it can make your stomach feel a little funky, the too many of those, right? There, as much as they are, a pretty damn cool tool to get around the fact that you can't really eat or just dedicate a carpsour, as when you're dieting, at least not a lot of them. They're not a complete freaking cure-all. Because then if you eat a ton of them, you're going to kind of like, basically just get bloated, because they, you know, they go through all sorts of processes to make them low carb. So, as much as there is benefit to some tips and tricks, you can't get around the fact that dieting either, up or down is just going to be challenging. There is, uh, there are certainly things you can do to make it easier, right? Like, if you work out consistently and you do your cardio consistently, then you can actually can eat more food than somebody of similar statuette to you who doesn't do those things. And you can still be getting leaner, because you're burning more energy throughout the day, right? If you've got two campfires, and one of them has a leaf blower blown on it, which is making that fire burn hotter, then it's going to take more fucking logs quicker. In the other one, that's burning a bit slower, you know? So, that's going to help when you're bulking up, make sure you eat foods that are easy to eat, bowls of fresh rice, like, I usually don't like prepping the rice, because if it sits in the fridge for too long, it can get a little dry, and then it's not as enjoyable to eat. So, I usually, uh, that's why I really like the microwave of ones, because it's like, it's done right there, not a huge mess or anything, but they do come with, you know, some added carbs and fats. Or some added fats, obviously there's a lot of other carbs. But, as easy it is to, uh, or as much ease as it gives you to evenly spread out your meals throughout the day, you can't get around the fact that you have to hit certain thresholds before you notice the results that you want to see. So, dieting down, you know, as much as I could, uh, or as much cardio as I could do, and as much working out as I could do, and there's no getting around, I just don't have that much foodie, you know? So, it comes down to, okay, this is the situation at hand. I want to get leaner. I'm doing this much cardio a day, I'm doing this much working out of the day, I'm burning this much energy a day. I can only eat this much food. And if I go over, I'm not going to eat my goals. What I set out to do, I have failed, and it was in my own control, and I just said screw it. So, you know, there really is, uh, some value, not even some value, a ton of value, to being, uh, being a little bit harder on yourself there. And by harder on yourself, I just mean, like, connected with the goals that you're trying to achieve, because it's very easy to think. Well, you know, it's not going to be summertime for like six months, right? I don't need to die down right now. It's, uh, do it. Christmas is coming. Really, you want me to eat a small Christmas dinner? What do you think? We just had Thanksgiving, man. You really expect me to die at three Thanksgiving. Come on. It is so easy to, uh, and, I mean, for me too, I could think of a million reign of mass excuses to, uh, as to say, like, why I should just go crazy, get some ben and jerrys and some, uh, like, some McDonald's and just go, uh, say, eat until I'm totally full and satisfied. Not that I'm really thinking that, but like, for anybody, it's very easy to come up with reasonings until, like, sort of, just hem and ha on your mind and think, okay, well, I mean, you know, like, you know, and what it really comes down to, the thought that is really just bubbling up, causing those little arguments for yourself is simply, uh, well, that's going to be hard. You should probably do it easy way. That's going to be uncontrollable. You should probably do it the comfortable way. Holy shit. Two deer. Goodness. But, you know, that's the thought process you're fighting. Because you've got your conscious brain that's you making your thoughts right now very actively. Then you've got your subconscious and the subconscious, you can't control it, right? That's why, uh, that's why every time you're sitting on the cardio bike and a random thought pops in your mind, like, you didn't, you didn't conjure it, it just kind of happened, like, ah, dude, this is getting hard. You should probably stop. And that's when you have an option. That's where you can either, right, show some grit or show some quip. So you can think to yourself, well, what the fuck man, I want to do this cardio. The fact that it's hard is why I'm doing it, so I can come out better at the end of it. Now, it's not like you do one thirty minute cardio session and now you're suddenly a new man, but if you do it hundreds upon hundreds of times in a row, a new man could actually be a pretty damn good description. All right, I get tagged in all sorts of posts on the Instagram, the TikTok and everything. I'm always scrolling through them, like, same with the comments. I don't know, I don't reply to all of them as I used to. It's getting to the point where there's too many. Awesome problem to have, but the tag posts I look through a little bit more diligently. And the reason for that is because I just saw one earlier, if I wasn't driving, I'd pull it up. It was a TikTok of a guy. First picture, tank top, you know, maybe load 200 pounds soft, like, kind of a younger dude, high schoolish. The next slide, it didn't seem exactly how long it had been since that first picture was taken, but dude was lean. Dude looked like he worked out. Absolute insane transformation easily within the range of a 40 pound drop and fat. And I doubt it took that guy that long. Especially when you're a little bit younger, like, you can just flip a switch. Your metabolism is already going nuts because you're still in kind of a state of growth until you're probably, like, yeah, I mean, fuck, you can get up in like 22, you know? Like, you ever hear guys talk about how your metabolism kind of takes a hit, just basically once you reach full size as a guy, that's fucking true, man, right? So, what I'm getting at is insane fucking fat loss transformation. That's what I love to see because these guys get such an awesome grasp of every aspect of little working out. The calories, the training, the cardio, the consistency, and in their mind, and not even in his mind specifically, he must have had a moment of realization where he said, alright. This is where I'm at right now. I know where I want to be. I know what it's going to take for me to get there. Let's make this shit happen. And then he did it. Boom, right? That's fucking sweet. So, that's where if you know you want something, then if you can break it down to the point where you can visualize and know exactly the steps that it's going to take for you to get there, then those subconscious thoughts of like, oh man, why are you doing this? This is getting hard. You just go home. Like up for cardio sleep in a little bit. Suddenly, you're going to be freaking, let me with a crack. What's the word I'm thinking of? Totally killed my, totally killed my pace there. In prayer. Oh yeah. Suddenly, you're going to be impervious to these damn like creeping little like back off, lazy, and this kind of thoughts, because you're holding freaking steadfast to whatever goals you want to achieve. So, the idea, at least ideally, you'll reach a point where the idea of doing anything that's counterintuitive to those overarching goals that you have, it's like, it's laughable. Like the idea of, oh my goodness. Like if I would have rolled up to, if I walked into the gym and I ran into somebody, you know, let's say, a seam on time. I don't know, one of my buddies and he's like, dude, screw cardio this morning. Let's go get breakfast. Let's go do whatever. Not happening. Like, what are you fucking talking about? And for some, that is a pretty strong antagonizing force against their goal achievement, because that situation is pretty fucking frequent. I mean, how often is it that you or, oh, let me just say you, for example, you've been, you know, kind of half invited to some kind of plan, some sort of night, whatever, where you say, well, dude, I'm working out at six, man, I can be able to make it or dude, I'm going to be late, man. I got to, or dude, I got to get up early. I got cardio tomorrow. I can't go out tonight. You know, how often have you ever had to say that? And then the response from whoever it was that was asking you was, oh, dude, yeah, fuck man, you're right. I know that you want to get after it. You're good. I know that's going to be a, you know, time more well spent for you. Probably zero freaking percent more likely, but guys, you're going to say, dude, you work out all the time. You're working out like a million times a week, bro. You can skip one workout. What's one workout, man? And for anybody that's really locked in with a thought process of, oh, what's one day off, bro? Come on, just like, it doesn't happen like that. That is coming purely from a perspective of who cares about what your goals are. And as unfortunate as it is, not really anybody, you know, like, if you want to kill it this year, let's say you're aiming for a badass, upward of like 60 pound kind of fat transformation or fat loss transformation. You don't have a cheerlead, you're just what? Like nobody is really coming for you to wake you up in the morning and say, come on, man, let's go get your cardio, you're doing good. I was about to say, going and done at the same time, but come on, man, let's go get your cardio done today. Let's do it. Come on, you said you wanted to do it. Like, that's not an often, but if you do have a support system like that, make fucking use of it, right? If you got a, if you're rocking a father's son, do oh, to the gym or, you know, you got a crew with you who's going all the time, that is awesome. But that's not very often, right? For the most part, it's always just you. So I don't mind that because I think it's, I don't know, I kind of like the fact that it's an individual thing for me. All right, I can really get into it. It's all in my own control. I'm going to go as far as I want with it and I'm going to be as dedicated as I know that I want to be with it. So it's almost like, well, it's like I almost, I feel like I feel cool that I don't need a huge support structure and it kind of just validates the fact that I want it to myself because it's like, I know I don't need anybody saying, like come on, see, I'm getting on with it. Come on, see, I'm getting up into your cardio today. Come on, man. I know 30 minutes on the bike. Come on. You know, because I know that I want the goals that lie beyond doing that. So if you have a solid grasp with solid visualization of what you want to make happen. All there is to it is simply making it happen. And the problem with that is it just takes a while. Games are not quick. Like this is a multi year endeavor for most to reach whatever, at least approaching whatever end goal that anybody might have working out. And I'm definitely taking it much further than necessary with how nuts I'm trying to go. But even if it's just like, okay, I want to get back into shape. I want to get back to be able to run a couple of miles. I want to get back to just whatever. That is absolutely awesome. So don't forget the feeling of what you, of what it feels like when you're imagining yourself where you want to be. I try not to do that all the time because I feel like when you really think about and get height based on where you're going to be in the future, it can almost sort of take away your drive. I'm getting a little bit abstract in my thoughts here, but it's like the more you think about your end goal and you're getting excited about it. It's almost like you're replaying the idea and giving yourself the same dopamine release as if you've actually already made it happen. So it's like anybody can want you to tick-tock at it with like Jocco and David Goggins and you know Tom Platt's. Yeah, I am working out. Yes. And then what's that energy's gone? It's like what happened? So that's where I really try to hold onto that and not run it over too many times in my mind. You know, because I want to be more excited about the day by day steps because if those get me excited, then it's never going to be a question of am I going to wake up and get my cardio going? Am I going to push it hard in the gym? Not only do I want to because it's simply pushing me further into the progress that I want to reach, but it's just what I like, you know. So eventually you reach a point of comfort and confidence with what you're doing, where you can reach that state. Because in the beginning, workouts definitely feel like work if your excitement isn't really like maxed out. But I mean, I can't even remember at the last time I've had a workout planned or scheduled or whatever, where on my way to the gym I had to think, and I really don't feel like working out right now. And it might be a bad thing, but even when I've gotten no sleep, like I've had a couple times where I worked out, I had to stay up all night for whatever reason, primarily procrastination, like back when I was in school and I'd have to do an all night or something. But sometimes, just so we had scheduled, like if I had to go somewhere in the morning or whatever, where it was like full night, no sleep. And then I recorded it. I don't remember when it was. This is way back, but I guess if you remember the video just by me referencing it, then you're a damn historic viewer. That's, you've been around a while. But I had not slept the whole time, and then I went to go do legs that morning anyway, because I was like, well, I gotta do legs today. It's make this shit happen. And it would have been better for me to just try to get a little bit of rest, even just two hours or three hours of sleep before I went to do whatever. Like that would have just been better. But, you know, in my mind, I'm like, I'm working out. I don't care what state of mind, let's go make this shit happen. And I'm even during the work I was fucking exhausted, but I still felt really good after work because I was like, or I got to think to myself, okay. My preparation for this lift was terrible, but still killed it. So it's almost, there's sort of a disconnect or a, like, a rift in working out where it's like, there is what is objectively optimal. But then there is, like, the die hard, gung-ho, run your head through brick wall approach, which I do think having the mentality to do that. And then start to approach the optimal side of things is where, well, that's just a good overlay or a good overlap of legitimate, like, smart training as well as, you know, knowing that, no matter what happens, you're still going to fucking get after it. But, that was a good chest day. I'm really excited to get back to the computer and actually, like, put this together and look over the clip because, you know, it's cool, like, I don't know how to explain it. But, like, looking at the video, especially with the fancy lens and everything else, like, it almost looks extra cool. There's, you know, it's like, it's cool to look at yourself in the mirror. And then it's, when I go back and check it out, it's, like, I got a whole new perspective when I look at the, the edited version. But that's all I got. Awesome chest day. I can go to sleep knowing that I, that I pushed myself towards one of my main and four. And then I got some cardio in the back day tomorrow. So, I will see you then.

So intro there will be a new intro in very soon very soon I keep just looking up like random copyright free music and then eventually the music gets copyright strikes and then I have to switch it but it's probably about time for a new set of intro poses I was uh so to be completely honest with you I was kind of trying to set up a thing where I could have like basically instead of the white sort of rectangular look in the background I was trying to see if I could figure out a way to like you know not just like CGI like actually have like a fireball and be the background I um I think that idea might be a bust for that it's uh that might be a little bit too much risk of first degree burns as well as uh well whatever so who knows maybe there are actually a new intro for this video we'll just have to see but either way they'll come back with a little little tune but speaking of updates with uh with all the Sam shirts and stuff and the hoodies those are shipping out they've been going uh they've been going the last couple of days that orders are actually kind of getting fulfilled so if you were if you were curious about that things are moving but it kind of takes a little while I think we're not I gotta pull up the analytics again but there's only like so many that are getting shipped out like per day like they're not all it's really hard to get that kind of stuff moving but yeah those are getting shipped so that whole process in the back end word kind of trying to streamline it make sure it gets a little quicker and then for anybody for any of the UK fans which it's about getting close to 20% like when I look at the YouTube stats it's like I think 30-ish percent state side 20-ish UK maybe even like 13-y UK and then it kind of dwindles down from there but yeah I know it's uh that's a big step in terms of the back end of that sort of stuff is having inventory over there already but we're working on it so as time passes that'll all be much more just what's the word have much more of an ease of use that kind of a quicker delivery but in terms of what's actually going on tonight with back well just a back pump rose pull-nance pullovers of some kind of order exactly what that order is I'm not completely certain yet but I'm sure I will find out and I'm okay with that you know I'm not coming into this back day with the with the goal of making sure that I hit a set of three plate end of our ball bar rose for 12 and you know make sure I progressively overloading like right now I'm not progressive overload state you know I'm so fur those unaware when I'm bulking up like if you watch any of these videos where it's like this bulk day whatever that's when I'm moving around a lot of weights full of carbs strong physically getting bigger and stronger so that's where I'm pushing it and I want to be overloading the weights progressively but dieting down not exactly the case right if every lift I try to come in here and lift the head east way like a possibly move well let's just say a beef you know having much more tweaks and pulls than I do now which right now that's zero right I haven't tweaked and pulled anything for a little while and I want to make sure that I don't like that's up there as one of my top priorities don't hurt myself so it's uh the weight isn't so important like I'm trying to stimulate the muscle of already got built I don't need to try to wreck it and really try to build it back up because I don't have the fucking capacity right now like if you're in a steep deficit all your goal is every day is stimulate your muscle getting enough activity to raise your basement avalism and then restrict your calorie intake but it is still high enough that you can recover musculately right maintain all the beef you've built up but you know just trim off the fat on the outside so what I'm really concerned with more now than ever is just having a lift get a pump go home now it's still gonna go hard that's it and no way am I trying to say I'm gonna take it easy or anything but leveraging the weight side of things and dieting context or carb depleted context especially in my like size not necessary so that's uh even though I might still throw in a couple heavy sets here in there of like something extra heavy for the most part what I'm really focusing on is a reasonable squeeze and then once this sets over having felt a solid amount of activation burn we all know the same fucking key words right so that's what I mean before in the in terms of changing up this back date compared to my last ones I'll just have to see what I'll just have to see what speaks to you know last back day was a lot of uh single arm pull downs followed by uh followed by what oh yeah followed by some cable rows and then some regular barbell pull downs and then some machine rows I think so I'll make this one a little bit different but not like completely you know off the wall because all I'm trying to hit is the main three groups in my back lower lats mid kind of lats mid traps and then a little bit of money kind of up a traps like ramboy Terry's major kind of freaky stuff those are those little like I look at most of this right underneath your weird delts but right above your lats so as long as the end of this lift during the post down I basically hit my back from all angles I'm fully pumped and I can tell I win hard and I stimulate in my back then that is all I'm gonna hit before so I think no point in no point in the elaborating at any further it's just gonna make it happen we've moved in number one being a good set of stray par pulled them moderate pace reps and then we can go from here I I almost started with seated row but I don't know gently jump out of me in the feel of reps uh yeah yeah You You You Do You Oh One more I got I'm really starting to feel that 100 grams of carbs I've already I guess I've only eaten But good service it Let's just fucking do two more same style same everything Let's do a rest pasta Rest pasta set with seven reps of time Oh Oh Oh, me wish yeah, let's do a row next as a good contrast between pull down then the wrong movement and I think some single our Action might be just about right so This cable setup Is actually perfect for what I'm aiming for Because I can hold on to this handle right here Give myself a good braising position and then Single on cable row and what I like about this more than like a dumbbell Is every foot That I move this weight or this handle the weight only goes up half a foot So if I pull this shit at like five feet a second The weights only actually moving up two and a half feet a second So what that means is I can't build up as much momentum You know like on a pull down like the Well like the pull down the cable is immediately Directed straight to the weight this has an extra pulley So with the pull ends you can kind of wrench the weight in the beginning and get it moving and then ride the momentum But since you can't build up so much momentum here because it's got this pulley kind of reducing your What's the word here? Well, either way the pulley makes it so you can't just rip it Like you're gonna feel much more constant tension which in the slow rep of course is gonna be the case But on the cable I just like and more so let's start with the left side Affiliated Do Do it! Oh my god, okay. Oh, I forgot about... Let's do two of these. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. All right. I might move the way a little quicker on this next one, but that was a very good counter to the last focus pull down. That movement number one was. Oh my god. Yeah. Oh my god. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, okay. All right. That's enough of that. That's just something left focused. So this will be much lighter than the two sets that we just finished. So only 50 pounds on one arm for single ampulovers. 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, 5, kind of an alternating like rest-pastile. But still hitting both sides at once. And the benefit that I get out of this isn't the last isolation. Like it is, but that's not the highlighted point. It's the hard squeeze I can get at the bottom. Because for me, if I do a rope pull over or a bar pull over or whatever, it's like for one thing I end up getting some lower chest like a dumbbell pull over, which I don't want. But also I just can't really squeeze as hard. Might just be a me thing. But when I grab one single cable, turn a little bit away from it, and then act like I'm holding a damn sword or a little like a sore fin dagger. And I go to sheath it right on my hip and really squeeze. I mean, I can feel my flat flexing all the way down to like the lowest part that it inserts down here. So, could just work well for me, but I guess it works well for me, so that's why I'm doing it. So, right at first, or left at first. Yeah. No, I can't go. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I don't know. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, okay. That was good. I kind of had to call it pre-failure, because it's not like I need to go to a point where I can barely move it in inch. I just sort of reach the level where it's like, I can't really get the same squeeze. I mean, before. Another lot of folks movement, but not this. It's changed up a little bit. This was a staple movement in my little basement gym, because the rack, the power rack I've had had a pull-up bar with these narrow grip attachments. But usually I'm not a huge V-bar pull-down fan, but when you put two of these parallel handles together for a pull-up, I do like it. And it's a very strong setup. So, I mean, this is going to be a legit set. I'm going to make these a little nastier instead of slow and squeezing. There. All right. Oh, oh, oh my goodness. One more I got. Fatigue is fucking hitting me quick. Like the first tempo, good, man. This last three were if I can trick you. No way. Oh my gosh. That might actually be freaking it. Let's pose that. Good, damn it. All right. So that's intake too long. Get it. Two sets of pull-downs. Two sets of sing-larm cable rows. Two sets of pullovers. Two sets of pull-ups. Yeah. Eight sets, man. And my traps, my lats. My mid back all the way down on my lower, whatever. All feel pretty freaking pumped up. Oh, let's do it through a pump to cover. Through a pump cover, last breath, and then we'll really break it out. We're approaching a V-taper, good, damn it. It's going to get freaky here, but this is a pretty cool level to be at just now. So, let's start from the front. Oh man. That seems to be in the back. Oh, my goodness. Yeah, it's hard to hold these damn poses with a backup. So I'm going to back and run it into itself. But wait a minute. I'm skipping an important pose here. Okay. That's pretty much freaking all of them. So, I'd say that was more than successful. Back pump, back separation, detail, everything else. Simply getting freaky here and freaky here by the day. And they kind of hold out of the shirt to help me get a little erected reaction. Oh, holy crap. I don't know if you guys have ever heard of a good dude named Back as Zilla. But I'm giving myself some back as Zilla vibes here. And it's crazy to him, but yeah, this is second cool. Let me do one more. You want me? Well, pump to shit. Let's get in the car. We are done. Okay. So this is just a few seconds after watching over that clip of the pose down. I'm not new to Backvades or Backvades are not new to me. That's territory which is kind of been explored already. But especially honestly, even that the second little like flex imposed I did where I held my breath, not even as vain as that fucking first one. That was awesome. Can't remember back. So heavy was a freaking set off the car alarm. But yeah. That is most certainly new territory for this dieting phase. And that is what gives me just an insane proof of the shit that I'm doing is working and the uncomfortability that I'm going through is hang off. And I'd be like, I'm not dying here. But I'd be in line if I told you that I was completely comfortable. That lift in terms of overall energy and like, I guess you could say sort of like set by set in Durance. There's low. I've had a hundred string of cramps of carbs today. And once you get to, well, maybe not once you get. But if you're a goddamn 230-ish pounder, 130 grams of carbs is not a lot. Like I'm as flat as I'm going to be right now. So it kind of, I mean, that's the take. You know, the give, lean, you know, continually getting leaner. The take is, you got to catch your calories, you got to do your cardio, you got to, you know, deal with the sort of detriment that come with dieting, which in a training context, which probably hits me the hardest at everything. You're not going to be a strong. You're physically going to be a, well, I say, physically going to be a weaker, that's the exact same thing. But you're going to be moving weights and getting more fatigued from them more quickly. So that's where I can still leave today satisfied. Even though I felt a little bit extra tired. Like I could tell I didn't have the same strength as I would have before. Like that single arm sets of, or those single arm rows, when I was sitting on the cables. Like when I'm fully bulked, that's, I mean, that's nothing. Like that's light squeezing weight, whereas today, I mean, that's slow set. 10 reps was like pushing it. Honestly, I probably should have gone a little bit lighter. I might have been, you know, letting my inner ego out, ego lifted out just to touch. But even though that's the case, what were my goals walking in? It wasn't lift the most weights I've ever lifted. It wasn't feel like I'm the strongest who ever been. It was stimulate my back, get a pump, and leave knowing that I pushed myself pretty hard. All three of those boxes are checked. So that's what I think kind of throws people off and is a little bit of a deterrent from anybody really getting into like a serious, bulking phase, dieting phase, even just like working out phase, is because there are difficult aspects like that. You know, like I am, you know, all here this a lot from people where they totally have an motivation to want to get like get in better shape, start working out more, start like eating healthier. I think everybody has an internal motivation to do that at any level, you know? Like if anybody is, let's just say you're, you're data, whatever you're talking about, working out, everybody in their mom is going to say, yeah, I should probably hit the gym more. Because we all know it, we all know that that's the case, but what really sucks is all here this a lot, and it's basically like, well, you know, every time I, every time I start really tracking my calories, it kind of, you know, brings up like bad memories of like when just, just anything, you know, like, you're stressing about how much food you're eating, and then it's like okay, well, I already overshot my calorie limit. Now I'm, now I'm uncomfortable with myself. Now I'm going to eat as a little bit of like a coping mechanism because eating food is a total dopamine release, like eating a big ass bowl of something that you really enjoy. It gets your brain going like crazy. So I'm not saying it's simply like a mental weakness thing. You're hard-wired to want to do that, but there is a certain, you know, man upness to it where it's like, yeah, I probably would decimate a bag of white cheetos puffs right now. Historically, I have done that. When I look back at the shit out eat when I was younger, it isn't that's protein like zero, but I'd be, I'd be in like bags of croutons, full family sized bag of those, and goodness, but what I'm saying is, if I had no specific driver goal that I was aiming for, then run in purely off of my body's instincts, if my stomach had control, bag of cheetos puffs, two spicy chicken sandwiches from Wendy's, even though they make my stomach upset, something about the spices, and about a quart of vanilla ice cream, that would probably make my stomach feel rather good. And maybe that's a combination of stomach and tongue because I get to taste it too. But that's not what I want to do. That's countering that. That is extremely counterintuitive to the goals that I want to achieve. And don't forget, you're the one that's in control. It's so easy to blame like cravings or just whatever, but the guy piloting the goddamn mech that is your body is you right in here. This 15 pound blob that is your brain, and you've got to be able to say to yourself, look, sure. It might feel kind of good for 10 minutes to go crazy in the kitchen. But afterward, you are going to feel worse, right? So it's, it just kind of sucks there, but I'm going to lose on my train of thought with this police activity here. What do you think is going over there? Well, either way. What I'm trying to get at is, yeah, there's hard parts to it. But with anything, that's what has a result afterward, right? Typically, this is a classic sort of self-help mindset. It's like the shit that you really want is hidden behind the shit that you really don't want to do. So I think everybody would love to have six back apps. I think if you could press a button that was like, would you like to be instantly jacked? And I'm not talking like 250 pounds of pure muscle. I mean, just a 180 lean, or whatever your goal is, anybody. You'd probably hit that button without anything in the bag. And this isn't a genie where it's, like, a monkey's paw sort of thing where there's a catch. There's no catch. Everybody would hit that button. But when you add the stipulations of, okay, well, you got to not eat whatever you want. You can eat food that you like, but you can't just go crazy. You have to kind of control it and track it. You got to work out a couple hours every week, do some consistent cardio, and do all that for a few months on end. And not really see massive noticeable changes except for, like, you know, every couple of weeks, if not every, like, month or so. Like you'll still see a steady declaim on the scale. Like you'll drop a pound a week. But dropping one pound of body fat, if you've got, like, 30 to lose, that's what. I mean, 3% of a change. It's not huge. Now, 3% of it over, uh, 3% of that change over the course of 10 weeks, or 20 weeks, or however long you lock yourself into a dining phase. That will add up pretty substantial. But day by day, you know, it's not much. So that's where you got to really make use of your fucking mind, because I feel like one of the biggest distinguishing features of, you know, man versus animal is our ability to instill and enact delayed gratification, right? So, okay. Let me think about this. Would future me prefer if I work out, get in shape, or would he prefer that I sit around, play a lot of things. I'm around play legal legends and gain a bunch of body fat. Anybody, I think we know the answer, but that's where current you get in the way. So it's like, well, you know, I probably would like it if I was locked in. Like if I could go back in time and completely revert the last six months and have already been locked in, then I would do that. Nothing has changed. You have another like, you know, assuming all goes well, you got another six months where you're going to be able to look back on these six months. And it's going to pass anyway. It's going to pass like that. I mean, I, I feel like I can remember pretty vividly as if it was only like not that long ago when I was like 16 lifting in my parents basement, you know, getting hyped up to whatever I was listening to back then. And then trying to gently re-rack the weight, so I didn't wake my parents up because their room was above the gym. Like time is fucking passing quick. So, you know, the sacrifice of locking yourself in now is well worth the fucking reward of having been locked in for that amount of time afterward. And when I say that, I kind of feel like I'm just like projecting this idea of like all this hard work that you do. Now is going to pay off, which it will, but for me, at least, it doesn't necessarily feel like work because I enjoy doing it. And that's where I'm a little bit spoiled because working out is definitely like my thing. You know, I'll go on pretty long talks about this. I think everybody should work out. Everybody should have a basic workout routine at least like three times a week of weight, base sessions and some cardio. You know, even just like three times a week cardio and weights would be a massive game changer compared to zero. And that's, that's only every other day. That's less than 50% of the days that you go and work out. And that's a huge jump from anybody who completely skips the gym altogether. So, I do think everybody should be doing that. But everybody should also have something that they can really dive into on the regular and try to progress and get better. So, for me, those two things overlap, which makes it a bit easier for me to be extra motivated. But even if you're not, like even if the work isn't your main thing, let's say you're a bad ass drummer. And you want to keep yourself in shape as well. So, the work and out might feel a little bit more like a chore. But that's where I think looking, and this is just like my own conjecture. I'm just kind of hypothesizing here. But I feel like it would be a pretty motivating thought to think, okay. If I could completely change the way I acted and the way I've been working out the last six months, I would. So, I've got another six months ahead of me. I'm going to be in the same position I'm in right now, then let's make this shit happen. You know, but I, you can't force it. So, all I can really say is, if that's something that you want to do, nothing's stopping you. Right. Set aside some time. If you can be a bit more consistent with it, it's probably going to be easier. Let's say you've got to, you get off of worker school or whatever you got to do during the daytime. And you've got an hour and a half set aside that you can consistently dedicate to working out in some capacity. Even just four times a week. I say that is fucking bad ass. So, I, I feel like sometimes I'm talking to like I'm given advice in sort of two very different perspectives. Because on one hand, it's the guys where the working out is your thing. Like you're taking this extremely hard. If you were to look back over like you're like, you know how your phone has like watch time. And you can see how long you've been playing on different apps. Like if you were to look over these guys' minds, the thing that they probably think about the most is working out. I feel like I follow them to that category. Because it's like nothing I'm doing is more than a few steps away from the gym. It's okay. I'm going to get in recovery for the lift tomorrow. Okay. I'm eating this. I'm counting these calories, you know, in context of whatever dieting phase I'm in right now. Okay. I'm going to do this this in this today. When am I going to like, it's probably, for the regular dude, that's way too much. I'm reasonably self aware about that. But there's also the guys where it's just everybody should be working out in general. And that's like groundbreaking tips or anything. I think we all know this. But that's where you don't have to take it like to Tom Platt's intensity on the regular. That's cool when I think it's extremely like motivating and high-panducing. But if you're just trying to stay in good shape, showing up is 75% of it. Easily 75%. Like showing up five times a week if your goal is to get into solid shape. That's to record as I've been right there. And if you can show up consistently, the results will simply appear. And then, you know, if you want to keep pushing it, that's where I think leveraging the dieting side of things. Can really start to make a huge difference. The thing that I think platos the most lifters across the board is in training intensity or training consistency. You're like, they're training style or they're doing a science-based or they're doing this program. I don't think that's it. If you're working out consistently, I think the main thing that's going to stop your progress is the dieting side of things. So that's why you're never going to hear me stop talking about the macros and the calorie counting. Make sure you can find out what your main goal is or things like that. As well as the consistent cardio, that's just a boost all around. But I don't know, it's not making this a cardio rant. So that's all I gotta say there. But awesome back day. And I am beginning to increase the rate that the freak factor is improving. So what I mean by that is I've said this a couple of times before. I think when I started this dieting phase, I dropped about 12 pounds of carbs and water in about maybe two weeks or so. So that's not fat loss. That's just I'm not eating as much as I was when I was bulking. So I'm not so full of extra water and muscular glycogen that everything else. So that's just kind of like fluff away. It's not fake. It's intramuscular. It didn't make me look like extra big. It's not really there. It just kind of comes in and out. All right. It's like you got a gas tank. So I'm gonna just follow some of that. It's empty. But since then, I feel like I probably had about, I don't know, maybe 15, 20. Maybe 25 pounds of body fat extra that I'm trying to peel off. Right now I've got about 10 pounds. Ish left that I want to get off my frame. So put me around competitive weight that I'm aiming for. But those first three pounds, like I just said about that percentage, it's barely a 10% change in leanness. Not much. But now that I've only got 10 pounds left, for me to lose another three pounds, is a 30% change in leanness. And it's also kind of an exponential, like improvement, because the closer you get to lower like single digit body fat numbers, the crazier you start to look at. It's kind of like this if I can exponential sort of curve. So I foresee that for a week's from now, I'll be double the freaked factor that I'm at currently. So it's almost- it's almost like I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, kid on a Christmas morning. I just- or I guess you can say Christmas Eve, I just can't wait for that time to pass. Because the things I'm aiming for, and the way that I'm going about it with the calories and the cardio and the working out, like I've pretty much got that downpacked. So it's almost like I'm just getting excited like okay, one is one of these four weeks if I can pass But you know I'll keep you updated the bad That's all I got there what is today December 16th for you December 17th It's almost Christmas man. What's on your freaking wish list? How about have I that let's get a little comment interaction? What's uh, what's on your Christmas list This year for me I'm not totally sure I'll get a bad habit. I don't really make Christmas list so sometimes my family nags Maybe they'll like they didn't know what to get Maybe I'll come up with something but either way I'll see you for an arm day tomorrow Maybe a little bit of arms and shoulders I'll let it go Like add a little bit of delta action there but Don't see that

Yeah, alright, you know what, let's do, let's do no intro for a little while, see how that goes. For the guy with a new intro the last year and a half. Let's get right to it. I had no point in dilly, delling, hype me up. Only one thing is about to get done. And that is a reasonably freaky arm pump, which has its own hype onto itself. But how much do you really need to add onto it? Because not every lift is going to be like a game-changing PR-added lift, room-shaking, screaming event. And I don't think there's supposed to be either, you know, because if that were the bar, every lift that you ever did, and if you couldn't hit that level of like hype and excitement, then you know, you just wouldn't get any results, then each. I don't know if I didn't be interested, you know? I mean, that's like, it's all cool and good to get extra crazy, excited like that. And maybe I'm just saying that doesn't really get me going as much. Because from me adding come up with working out as more of a group activity, kind of a solo kind of thing, parallel play. Like everybody I'm working out with who I'm buddies with, you know, they're doing their own workout. You know, get a spot here and there, but for the most part, everybody's kind of just focusing on their own stuff. But, you know, that's kind of a, that's sort of a positive end of drawback of the highlighted like hype. Shit that gets posted all over like, well, just everywhere. It's good to get to you excited about the work I'm out. But it's only highlighting the cool parts, you know? I noticed this a lot. I look at all the fitness videos specifically in like a different lens now that I've kind of been behind the scenes of them. People do not post leg days as much. Posts videos about them doing their cardio or just sitting in like track in the calories. And all the things that make up the framework of why they're fucking jacked. It's always just straight up. I think chest days are the most popular out of them all. Followed by arms followed by back. Shoulders is up there too, maybe, maybe tied for second place. And then legs and all related. There below there are their deep here, not a little in that little list. So that's kind of a motivation of, okay, well, I want to post shit that gets, that gets a lot of like views and engagement. That's the whole point of posting. So, maybe don't record my leg days. Maybe, you know, the skip legs, maybe he cares. I can record it anyway. Let's just go ahead and chest today. Right? So it's almost like the situation of knowing that, okay, a lot of people are watching this stuff that I'm doing. Like, I'm putting myself in the mind of anybody who's got reasonable influence. Is that okay? Well, people don't really care about leg days. All right, I show only post when I look absolutely insane and post the coolest lifts, you know, but there's more tooth in that. So if you're only looking at like the top 1% or as a viewer, if you're trying to compare yourself to, perfect lighting, cool, like fancy ass fucking camera. So look, you're going to look way different with like a big ass, like Sony lens versus like your phone camera. Lighting, fully pumped, fully vaney. I got to say lighting again because it can play such a crazy role. And potentially like straight up Photoshop shit. Like if you're comparing yourself to that 1% that gets shown around, then you're asking for fucking trouble. You know, so don't forget there's a lot of stuff in the back end that isn't so glamorous, but it's much more important. Right, once the cool is part of the impairment, the top, that little pinnacle peak. But if it weren't for all the extra shit underneath holding it up, there would be no peak, right? So at least from my perspective, that's where I get most excited about like, okay. Obviously, when I post down for this arm pump, I'm going to feel fucking cool. But I know that the only reason that I'm going to look leaner than I have been. Ooh, ooh, ooh. Leaner, look as though I'm getting leaner progressively, is because I've been putting in, making sure that I track all my calories, don't exceed my limits, doing, I mean, fucking hell, and now we're getting up into the hour of cardio for day range. This is getting kind of serious. That's what's all resulting in that end state. So if that's the case, okay, I want to start working on it. I want to have some bad ass, or I want to make some TikTok pump posing at it, so, right? Well, maybe I should start doing more cardio, maybe I should start tracking my calories, and leverage my diet towards the specific goals that I have. Definitely train hard like in that case, I think everybody gets that part of it. Make sure my recovery is a good compliment to the intensity of the training. And then, just keep up the pace. You don't have to be red lining it, lift after lift after lift. But, you know, if you're up in that 80, 90% range of effort consistently, as time progresses, I mean, I look back at, oh, geez, I need to compile all my old pictures. Like, I get a picture of me in the basement from like four or something years ago, doing like a side chest pose, time fucking flies. Or time freaking flies, you know, I kind of broke trying to stop swear. I'm really starting to think about it. Because it's so weird, I never talk like this normally. It's only when it's like me and you and the car and the gym, something about it, just turns me into a gosh dang sailor. But I really, I mean, I've been saying this forever. I really am trying to back off on it. So keep, keep note, if you notice, superior to time where I don't drop any F bombs, maybe it was a bit of a nice little favor. If you can give us a validation of what the, like, the guy who comments the F bomb counter, I want to get to a point where that's zero. But it's more of a back end goal. Primary goal number one, let's go get a nasty arm pump starting with some triceps. No need for a lot of weight for this start, especially given the fact that I'm dying down. I mean, you're not going to see a set of, definitely not an opening set of push downs where it's full stack, three plates on the side with a straight bar. I just think you're moving. And this is me talking to myself in the past. Let's just move in a way to move it. So about 120 on this stack with two moderate length de-handles. And instead of just doing a rope extension, which the primary fucking, like, feature of a rope is the fact that, like, well, let's just say this is a rope here. As you do the rep, you can pull the handle apart. So instead of just pushing down at the bottom, and having this like separating force, just helping these squeeze my triceps. But instead of the rope, sometimes I like throwing in these de-handle sets, because it's just like this, just more interesting strength curve, because instead of like an overhand extension, it's kind of like underhand of the top, and I almost transition to a little more overhand at the bottom. So it's just like a different sort of squeeze, you know, that's comparing this to this. And it's subtle, but it's different enough that it makes a difference. So a few sets of these, and this will be light squeezing. Like, the fact that the thing that's going to make this set hard isn't, you know, even just moving the way in the beginning. It's around like rep 10 or even 15, once fatigue is built up, and I can't even reach a stretch position. That's where the set will really begin. And then the rest fits kind of just like building up exhaustion. But let's just get it going. I might add like some, I might look up like gym background noise, and add it, because it's dead silent in here. It's almost a little too ominous, but I can. That's... Do it. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Okay. Wow. One more like that, but I can probably go one notch heavier. Not much, but just a touch. Yeah. No. No. No. No. No. Okay. Okay. That's the one more. I don't feel like I'm ready to move on just yet. One more, still doing me good. Same way. No. No. No. Okay. Let's do something a little heavier and faster pace. That was good for a light squeezing, like slow set. So, no, I kind of want to counter it. Okay. So, the full stack with this cambered nut, I guess. You want to say straight bar, I want you to say bent bar. Well, either way, this will be right. And I'm not going to be so. Like slow and squeezing and holding these reps, I'm going to look very different. Much more kind of pump focused, not really stopping any point. And just like consistently beating down my triceps is sort of how I'm imagining it. No. No. Oh my gosh. Let's come back to one like that. But next, let's stay right here, but doing overhead set. A little more stretch focus. Actually, a lot more stretch focused. No need to change anything. Same style, but a little bit slower and now overhead instead of standing. And a good trick with these, I like to get it back. One cheek of the other up against this upright for support. So, I don't have to like reach out here and like try to balance. Like I'm locked in. Two points of contact on the ground, one point here. I'll only get to focus on those by triceps. Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. Yeah. Okay. Oh my gosh. Let's do one more like the set that was done before this one. And then decide if triceps need any more damage. They feel pretty fucking cooked already. Pretty freaking cooked already. And this, I want to make like an extra quick set. So an add a difficulty of moving the weight a little bit faster. Yeah. Oh my gosh. Yeah. That's enough for triceps. Now the question is, do I want to start with the dumbbell curls or cable curls first? And there you're both down below. But I think I've got a good idea. If you guessed seated cable curls, you would be correct. And these are, I'm gonna, you basically have a couple options. You can do a real wide grip. These are going to go a little bit more than you know. I remember the gas, I want just now close. And this time we'll be closing at eight o'clock. This time we'll be closing at eight o'clock. It's good to know. But these are going to be a bit more narrow. And I want my elbows in front of my lats, so that this feels natural. If my elbows are, besides my lats, then how am I supposed to do a curl in here? It's just going to wrench my wrists. But that's the plan for our set number one. And we'll just go from there. If I get a good song, it's good. It needs to be quick. Oh my gosh, okay. Let's do two more just like that. Maybe even three. I don't know. I feel like I almost don't have my feet. Oh my gosh, okay. Let's do two more just like that. Maybe even three. I don't know. I feel like I almost don't have the endurance to do like ten different movements. So sometimes diving down, I feel like I tend to make the workouts a little simpler and denser. But two more of these minimum. Two more those. Okay. One more. I feel pretty strongly about this. Sometimes I'll see guys say, oh, all you did was bench in cable flies. That's only two movements. You need more than that. For a single workout. It's like, well, do you really? You know, if I'm fully pumped, if I'm fully fatigued, does it matter? If it came from ten movements or two? Does my bicep know the difference? But doing the squeeze on this versus like a dumbbell curl? I'm not so inclined to think so. So as long as you can, you're up. I don't think you need a marathon every lift. But one more. Okay. Okay. Okay. Oh, that was good. So even though I'm moving on to a new movement, the setup is actually pretty much exactly what I got set up here. Only one key difference, which you'll see in the moment. Same seat. Same cable sack. But instead of conventional bicep curls, I'm basically going to take the exact same movement. Because I'm here bending my arms at the elbows, flex my biceps. I'm doing the exact same thing. But now the starting position is up here. And I'm pulling my hands directly towards my shoulders. And a more linear motion rather than like this round arc. But I'm still not trying to work any rear delts. Any lats. I'm just trying to squeeze my biceps. And there's a combination of differences. But the main shit with this is like it's a different strength curve. And I can really squeeze at the bottom. Plus as I get fatigued, I can sort of use my lats a little bit at the end to help like self assist. Now if I'm starting using too much, then that's a cue that sets over. But as a little, it's nice. Moderately wide grip. Alright. Alright. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, okay. One more of those. Yeah. Yeah. That's enough of those. Let's do at least one set of dumbbell curls and go from there. But if this has been a good next set, I could see that being it. And then we can just get a pop check started. Let's grab the 50s, then the 30s, potentially the 20s. Let's get those first two portions started. All right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Hi, well actually, the 30s would be good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's suppose that bias tries fully popped. Fully pumped. Biceps honestly. I made it overcooked them with those heavy sets of the cable curls. Like even just now, given them a flex, they're kind of burning a little bit more than a little bit more. But either way, marms fully pumped. You underneath the sleeves, they feel pretty fucking bulbous. And you know, add a nearly 100 grams of carbs a day only. That is good for me. So that's where hydration is really coming in clutch. Because you know, you can drop calories whatever. You can be flat. But if you're flat and dehydrated during your lift, you're going to feel like ship. At least if you're flat carbs, but still hydrating, you get enough water and electrolytes in your system. Everything's still fucking functions is normal. I mean, as freaking functions is normal. Yeah, sorry about that. But let's run through a couple here. This is a good arm pump. Oh. Mmm. Oh. Oh. Holy crap. Almost skipped the front lights, but it's still. You know, that haven't had it. What else is there? That's basically the gist of it. Maybe a little super managed double by shot. So one thing I'm noticing, unpumped like just at home in the mirror. Like the peak, how am I by step up here? And kind of like up here over this edge is getting more and more defined. And even right now with the pumped up, it's actually kind of taken away from that definition. It's definitely adding to the vaningists. Oh, like let me, let me, you little breath hold here and really get some of these grains popping out. Yeah, goodness. So veins are definitely improved when fully pumped, but the little details and Strations, they kind of get over, overshadowed by the pure like inflatedness from the extra blood. But either way, arms thrashed. Oh, man. Let's get the car. Lift, satisfactionally complete. Okay. So given that the year is, well, two weeks away from being over. So we're rocking, we're like 95% 90% of percent done with this entire year. So if you're getting ready to ride the hype train of the New Year's motivation, and might have a little bit of a little bit of a statement for you. Right. Name one time you have ever heard anybody were getting into good shape. And I'm not talking about the 0.01% where, you know, people like just take it too far, like insanely addicted personality. I mean, namely, guy who regrets having flipped his sort of like lifestyle around for the better. It never fucking happens. Now, name the dude who's going to say, oh, man, I wish I could get you a shape or I should of start doing this this year or the guys were, I mean, these are the craziest, like, uh, comments, but like the craziest posts they'll ever see. And it's like a screenshot of like a text message, a jacket for, or whatever. And it's basically like, you know, kind of self-hype, like, you're locking in this year. I can feel it. I can feel that we're going to get locked in this year. Like, like, if it's just luck of the draw, you know, it just never fucking happens. But again, back to what I've seen, you're never going to regret it. You're absolutely never going to regret it. And you said, that's my old stick there, right? Just like once once people open their eyes to the calorie counting and like you get a good grasp of holy crap. I, my stomach just overall, I just feel better because you know what kind of, like, the food that you're eating, the effects that the food that you're eating has. And then, you know, targeting towards a long term goal, be it bulk and up, cut it down, stay in the same weight, whatever, like, the more that you become in control of your own shit, the better. And you will never want to look back, right? I mean, it's the same thing kind of applies to life too. I mean, if you were to ask somebody right now, like, what's, like, I mean, there's so much crazy shit to, to worry about, to think about. And not that it's not like, weren't thinking about, you know? But for the most part, what do you really interact with on a day by day basis? Number one, you yourself, your body, your mind, everything else. The guys, you, you know, see a lot, be like your family, whoever you live with, be the work with, be the go school with, you little inner circle. And then whatever activities you do, right? So let's assume you're lifter, the people you get to work out with. Anything that really extends beyond that, shouldn't take much priority in your mind. But, you know, focus on the shit that you got going on. Like, you know, it's so, it's such an arbitrary thing to think, okay, well, I'm going to get locked in this year for real. And then the guys who say it like that are maybe sleeping four hours a night. Macro tracking, not even a thought, maybe work out, like, you know, every so often, not super consistently. And it's like, dude, there's a reason why you keep saying, you're going to get locked in because you're just affirming to the universe. You're not locked in right now. And I know it's like, it seems mundane. But, like, I think half of the, half of the motivation between all, like, the, like, the military tips of, like, make your bed, keep your room clean. Or just, like, basic, like, even straight up therapists, like, some of their first moves will be just helping people get their days and, like, their rooms and their living spaces in order because if you have a room that is completely covered in, like, dirty laundry and trash and shit or whatever, and you get your desk in there, that's where you're working. How do you expect to get any good work done? You're constantly going to be distracted by the fact that the whole place is just a mess, right? So, you know, it might just seem like, oh, yeah, and it's probably, like, little things like that have an overarching effect that plays into the sort of smoothness and synchronity for freaking days, you know? So, with the, with the lifestyle side of things, like, obviously, nobody's lifestyle is so bad that they're not going to make it to tomorrow. Like, you can, for the most part, you have a biological need to sleep, at least enough to keep yourself moving. Like, you can just go your whole life being sleep deprived and unrest it and basically just staying in a stressed state. Like, the human body is pretty tough. Everything doesn't have to be perfectly in order. But, that does not mean that you're still, like, just because you can get up and you can run on four hours of sleep and night, does not mean that that's an awesome, but in situation to be in. You know, so it's like, yeah, you can just get that much sleep now, but the idea of, okay, well, am I really going to feel that much better if I get in the extra three hours of sleep, I like? And, am I really going to feel that much better if I drink more water every day and stay hydrated? Am I really going to feel that much better if I start doing cardio and working out a little bit? I'm not even saying bodybuilding, like, insane muscle growth. I'm just saying, like, general fitness based, what you're going to call it. Like, just like, stay in shape workouts. Like, just come to the gym, move in stuff around, break in the sweat, you're good. It doesn't have to be way too good, just be whatever. I mean, there's guys who are just doing straight calisthenics or getting yoked. But, you know, it's like, yeah, well, so these guys have this perception, okay, is it really going to matter that much? Because, you know, getting a little bit extra sleep and drinking your water and doing a little bit of cardio. We've heard it so many times ago, it's good for you. But, it's not like, you're going to suddenly feel like you're on top of the world. And, the really tricky part is it's kind of like, it's sort of a delayed gratification type situation, because you're not going to feel very good after doing, you know, 30 minutes of cardio for the first time. It's actually going to feel pretty hard. And we sweat and you're going to be uncomfortable, you're going to feel tired. Like, it's going to take a few weeks for the benefits of actually doing that, to even start to kick in. So, for somebody who has, like, you know, maybe a little bit of motivation to do it. They can be easily dispelbed by the fact that it's just kind of going to feel like work with no reward. But, it's only work with no reward for a little while, right? Having, I feel like I've been saying the same kind of talk, the last couple of lifts all. I'll cut this one short after I get this idea out. But, it's like, yeah, you might not notice after that. Well, you definitely won't notice after that first day. You probably won't even notice after that second day. If anything, the only thing you're going to notice is the fact that you're extra tired, next to a fatigue, and, you know, you're like, oh, man, this sucks. But, if you manage to get past that sort of initial investment phase, then once you start seeing the progress that you actually want to see, that's more motivating, like being a little bit leaner, being a little bit bigger, being able to just move around better. I mean, 30 minutes of cardio, you still get, well, if I ever skit my cardio for long periods of time, it'll feel like a bit more of a chore. But, right now, especially with the deficit and, like, gradually ramping it up, like, I mean, doing the 30 minutes on the bike, and then the 30 minutes on the treadmill this morning, it's kind of just, like, whatever. It's like, I've drenched it in sweat after, but it's like, that's just what I do. Eventually, it becomes much more normal, and you sort of acclimate to the difficulty level. But, all that's to say is, you know, this year, past next year, we'll see what happens. Right? And at the end of it, there's going to be guys where they get to, they get to look at it as though it was a bust, and then guys who potentially broke the cycle of whatever they were doing, and they're free time and said, okay, I'm making this shit happen this year. And then there's the guys who've been doing it four years, who gets to just watch the whole cycle unfold, and they should have a solid respect for anybody that manages to get in. I mean, you're going to see a spike in gym members at your gym being a planet. Fitness be at a Y, be at an L.A. whatever, like, there's going to be extra people who's January. And as the year progresses, that spike will begin to plateau, but stragglers will make it through. And then, instead of having new years crowd folk, you're just going to have some new regulars. And so there's always a fresh pool of meat. So, that's kind of funky. Well, there's always a new class of lifters coming in every year. So, if that's you or if that's somebody that you know, be a bit positive, and get them excited about it. That's your responsibility as the senior lifter to do that. But that's enough of that little hype speech. Anybody that really is wanting to lock in and lock in, and they don't need to hear me say that. Like, you guys, you know what you're doing. You know, so, playing for the postwork out of meal, probably ten ounces of ground beef. Maybe, yeah, I ran out of my low sugar barbecue sauce, so I think we're going to have to go, go, just maybe just do straight ketchup. Low sugar ketchup, of course. And then we'll have to see from there. Not much room for carbs and fats, because I stopped on my parents house earlier, and I had a couple handfuls of peanut and the nms. I didn't totally like overshoot my calories or anything, but that was about 40 grams of carbs and 20 grams of fat, or so. Whenever I eat something like that, if I don't have the macros handy right then, I'll tend to overestimate just to really make sure I don't overshoot. But, you know, it was kind of tempting me, so I decided to take two handfuls. Not big handfuls, of course. Maybe like, 12 or so, maybe like 15. But, so I had a treat earlier, and now I'm going to pay the price by not having to town of carbs and my post-workouts, pre-bed meal. But that's a room, that's a okay with me. So, our career is way... ...and then tomorrow I have got a leg day, so I'll see if it ends up being heavier or lighter in the quad department. But, no way to know until tomorrow counts. So, you guys know to see that.

Alright, 748, a perfectly dark time to get some legs going. Hams, quads, touch a adductor's calves I've been doing in the morning with the cardio, so those kind of, I like to separate from the main lift, but that'll be the plan for tonight. And quads I'm not going to go so crazy on. I can't, because now I'm getting into what I would really start to consider a legit deficit so if I overdue it with the quad training, I end up just feeling it, take its toll, mean-wise, kind of like just, like, sornus in a bad way, kind of thing. Like not, like more of an ache instead of, you know, just a regular tenderness from squatting, so having it just because, you know, crazy, heavy quad lifts, they demand a pretty serious amount of energy, and it's just an angel now, right now. Which kind of sucks, because it makes me a little bit less excited for legs, because the leg training is supposed to be nuts, like I enjoy the fact that legs is, like, you know, kind of an anxious experience sometimes with a really heavy, you know, sets the squats, be it like Smith, Barbell, even the leg press are really getting going too. Like it's a, it's a very full body-fucking experience, freaking experience, so, you know, to have to kind of neuter it a little bit and back off and do more, just like squeezing leg extensions, you know, not my favorite thing in the world. But in exchange, they're getting leaner and sticking with the deficit, that's just kind of the give-and-take, right? I mean, I've been saying this for a while, the training will suffer a little bit from being basically underfed. I mean, that's what I am right now. I'm not eating enough to stay the same way. I'm physically getting lighter over time. My body's being forced to use its internal resources for energy, so it'd be expected to actual, like, physical performance would begin to dwindle just to touch. And like, nothing crazy. I'm still benching pretty heavy, still doing push down to, like, you know, still squatting. Like, this squat strength is there, but, you know, it just kind of sucks half of the whole of yourself back like that. Like, there's a certain energy, like there's a certain feeling where your full of carbs, even just when your full of carbs walking around, like, you feel like a tank. And it doesn't matter if you're 250 pounds or 180 pounds, the feeling of being carb-ed up is just, I think it's even across the board. But yeah, so playing for tonight, hamstrings, quads, make sure I get them as pumped as possible. Just not as destroyed as possible. And it's been a little while, so let's head to a specific yellow and purple gym for tonight's lifts. But one thing which I have a pretty strong stance about, but I don't usually, like, force it so much as, like, the cardio and the calorie tracking and the training intensity. Like, those are the big three because those are easy to get behind. And I can really stand behind those 100% because, in a training context, that is where a substantial amount of potential results lie in improving the diet, improving the training intensity and consistency, as well as making sure that the main, because what muscle you're hitting every fucking day, every freaking day, you know, not your own touch of chest, you're dang heart. So if your cardio isn't enough enough, not only is it just bad for you at general, like, doing your cardio is, uh, there's no way around it, doing your cardio is just a good for you. But also, in a more direct response action kind of way, your training will improve. Like, the lifts that the leg damage about to have tonight, I'm gonna feel much better since I've been doing consistent cardio because I'm not gonna get so winded. Like, I'll still be huffing and puffing once you reach, like, over 230, that's just kind of the nature of it, but I'm not gonna be dying there. I'll still be able to catch my breath well enough, where on longer sets of hand string curls or radios or squats, I don't have to rack the weight because I have to catch my breath, and I'm getting fatigued in my whole body. The only thing that should go with the thing that should go first is the direct muscle that I'm trained. So calories, cardio, intensity. Those are the big three, those are the pillars which are gonna hold you up, working out wise, progress wise, and really just like walking around wise, you know. I think the baseline level of enjoyment from somebody to be in decent shape versus somebody's, you know, a little bit worse off, maybe a little bit higher on the body fat percentage range, and not in, like, a linebacker athletic kind of way. I do think the drone room group, and it's not improvements for no reason, because it just kind of feel better. This is a decent analogy, and I'm kind of, I'm kind of stepping into territory, I don't really belong, because I've never had to go through the process of losing a crazy amount of body fat, so that I, you know, I don't know your story of this as you, but if you get a carry around a 50 pound backpack, all the time, no matter what, don't you think it probably just fucking lose it, freaking lose it, I mean, it might take a while, and it's definitely not easy, but it would be 50 pounds lighter, just walking around, you know. But, but that's ever you do exactly, you know, that's not for me to tell you. But those are the three things which I can preach wholeheartedly, and we'll probably never stop talking about, and the one that I know get into is a much, because it's a little bit touchy is avoiding things that are going to hurt your gains, right? Number one, a certain little, a certain little liquid, most often found, you know, red solo cut, right? I'm talking about going out drinking, or probably even worse staying in drink, and now we're just getting into straight substance problems there. But it's, I mean, you're literally hindering your recovery, you know. We've seen all the guys where it's like, you know, a crazy part of your dude, and he gets his blood work done, he's like, do my liver school, and then in front of the doctor, he like slams two bottles of wine, or just like, look, it's as basic as this. Drinking consistently will hinder your recovery, will hinder your gains, will hinder your muscle protein synthesis, and that's just unlike a data-based focus. That's not even thinking about the fact that you've thrown off your nights, your sleep is trash, you're physically waking up hungover. I mean, I have never walked into the, especially when I was back at school. I have never seen anybody coming to the gym and say, man, we went crazy last night. I feel so good, and I feel like I'm being so productive with this workout right now. Everything is awesome. He just doesn't happen. And then just the likelihood of getting into serious trouble, I just don't see the appeal. And I've always been a little more of like the stay home chill kind of character, so I don't never really been like a party or anything like that, but yeah, guys. I mean, if gains are something you're serious about, then the drinkin is a complete antagonist to what those goals are, and it's the same as anything else. It really is just a temporary comfort and exchange for longer-term payments down the line. When I talk about not doing your cardio, and it's like, oh crap, I can't get up and do. I can't go to the gym and do 30 minutes of cardio crap. It's like something that you know you will feel good about afterward, but it has a bit of a payment of a comfortableity in the moment. So, you know, for some guys who are a little bit, I don't want to say weak will, but not so into the cardio yet. It's a very relaxing thing, a very like just wash of relief where you get to say, oh, I'm just not going to do my cardio on this day and bed. Snuggle back up, go back to sleep for now, things like that. The drinkin, not dissimilar, you know, and it's a bit trickier too, because obviously peer pressure is going to play a pretty serious role, and especially as a lifter. Nobody wants to, because if you've got a group where they all drink or consistently drink and you don't, then for you to say, like, yeah, I'm not drinking dude. I've got goals, I want to achieve the drinkin isn't really going to come off that way. That's going to come off as an attack, you know, in saying that, you're basically saying, like, at least it might be perceived by whoever you're telling this to, like, what do you think you're better than me? You think you're too good to drink with the rest of us. We are, and they kind of want to, they want to bring you in, because we all know it's bad, but it's just, you know, so. That's where my, you know, there's no point in, like, really arguing with anybody about it, just try to stay away. So that's, that's always been my perspective, but also it's like, I'm looking at it pretty objectively. I want to make some crazy as gains. I don't want to do anything to hinder that performance, you know. So the only reason I bring that up is I keep seeing a bunch of clips where after the power slap after party, because that was a, that was pretty cool. That's, that was the whole reason we got to go down and see J was because we, we lined it up. So we worked out with J that day, and then we went to that power slap thing afterward. It's pretty fun seeing all like the, I mean, it's just basically a bunch of influence or guys floating around this sort of, like, side section. There's a lot of food back there. So which was like, you know, they had this in tune of poke balls and stuff. So I was telling Mark, it's like, make sure I don't eat too much. Like, I, you know, I gave myself a bowl, and then I told them to do not let me get more, because I, if I was really going wild, I'd probably get a slam like an extra 3000 calories here. So another tip, if you're steep into a dining phase, maybe try to avoid any buffet style action. But no, I ran into a, ran into probably one of the most humble guys with some of the most motion we've ever seen in my life. It's a, a zackerific, but so we get, we got a couple of clips going back and forth. And instead of my normal one on one kind of chatting style voice, it was pretty loud in there. So I had to kind of yell out. So a little bit of clarification there, you know, no drinking was happening. And you really think I would want to hinder the gains that I just stimulated after working out with the legend himself, Jay Cutler. That same very freaking night, I mean that would be a ludicrous, you know. So that's my stance there. So if this year you can tell that's something you want to change up. I mean, sometimes the, in terms of the working out progress, it's not only adding things to improve the progress. It's removing things which are taken away. And those two were pretty synergistic, right? But that's, that's my little stick there. So let's go get in there. Get started hamstrings first, but I might end up doing like a back and forth superset kind of style thing. We, uh, we just have to see. Let's keep it simple. Start with a basic heavy set of like curls. This, uh, this one's a little funky of the normal. I think I'm more of a hammer strength fan for the seated curl. What this will work? Alright. Oh, yeah. Two more of these. Same weight, same style, same everything. I'm dealing more intense though. Yeah. Yeah. It's just, uh. Oh, okay. Oh, my gosh. Okay. Let's get this to body else. Smith machine, I believe. Two plate, already all. This Smith machine is nice because it's straight up and down. There's no angle to it, which, probably else just kind of feels better for me. But heavy enough to feel it, not so heavy that I work, it's kind of glutes and low back. Because I'm not doing this as a posterior chain movement. I'm just trying to activate my hamstrings. So I'm not even going to hit failure per say. I'll reach your point where I can tell my hamstrings. I know why I'm going to be doing most of the work. And then I'll just have to call it. But I'm going to switch over actually. I want to just pass the pull under. There we go. But these would be slow controlled. Can't really do the RDL is very thoughtlessly. Maybe just one more though, it's that. Maybe just one more though, it's that. Oh, my gosh. Alright. I was planning to do lame curls next to you. But I think one more of these will be. That'll be enough. And with the hamstring curls. Definitely a tricky one. And no way in my say it's easy. But you want to reach a point where you don't feel your glutes pulling the weight or your lower back. It's almost like imagine you have a tail and you're trying to tuck it in. Because that's all you're doing. You're internally rotating your hips. So, you know, hard to visualize, but you should just come to practice. But one more. Oh, lips. Oh, good. Oh, my God. Oh, my God. They might have to do it some of the glutes. But, hey, please, then. It's good. Can't find a bigger center. Thanks for the beginning. Okay. So, quads is actually going to be. Now, I'll do a few. But I can still feel them a little bit residually from last leg day, especially with that set of hurt those two good sets of barbell squats. They four played barbell squats is not supposed to hit you four days later. But I'll just do a couple sets for kind of the pump blood flow style effect. And I'll just record the one and I'll can't about here for a little while. And then I can cut some on check. So, the lift is basically over. This is almost more so. I feel so weird called quads accessory work. But it's like, I, you know, I just can't throw a rational right now. I'm just going to do a little bit of that. I'm just going to do a little bit of that. I'm just going to do a little bit of that. Alright. So I'm just going to come back and do a few more of those. Really just need them for a bit of a quad. So, in terms of a real quads stimulation, don't copy this part. Heavy squats, heavy squats, hard, crazy sets of leg extensions. That'll do the trick. Or right now I'm just, yeah. It sucks out in the whole life. I haven't had a whole myself back in the quads. But I'm sure I might be thinking a little differently in four months or now when I probably follow after I said a crazy squats. But either way, I can't about here. Let's go see how they look. Alright, so no pose down. Half motivated by the fact that all I did was another two sets of those leg extensions just as some quad activation. But the other half was ended up nerdin' out after the last couple sets of leg extensions, talking to a... Damn. I didn't ask his name, but he was a wedding photographers. We were going on about all the camera stuff in the lenses and the Sony's and everything else. So if you're curious, we're going to... We knew a little camera talk here. That is... and that's... it's own niche on all the YouTube videos and in of itself to be... to be looked at. But yeah. It's going to beat the phone for sure. But your phone beats nothing, right? You already have a pretty expensive camera sitting in your pocket. So if you're interested in, you know, record some stuff from whatever else. Start there. No reason to branch out anything too crazy and just yet. But in terms of starting positions, Sony basically knows what they're doing. And that's half my preference. And it's... if one of the other random camera brands came out with some newer stuff, that's way cooler. You know, I'd pick some of that. And for me, it's cool now because I get to really get into it. Because obviously, that's the way we post all these things. But yeah, if you're looking for... if you're looking for kind of a... I guess you could say hybrid camera, here's what I would definitely recommend. Probably. And it doesn't even overheat. That's like if you're sitting and recording stuff, like 30 minutes straight and you're in a warm environment. I think it's grab a ZVE1. You know, big sensor, full frame. So if you get like a Viltroc, or like a Tamron, prime lens, that has that blur effect. Like look here. Like see how my hand isn't focused, but everything else is now just a blur. Right? That's to do with the fact that there's all this glass in the camera lens that's doing all that fancyness. You know, and your phone just can't recreate it. But half the reason why that's something I look at is because especially recording on these public gyms and stuff. I don't want to record anybody here. Like get anybody's face if they're in the background, like doing whatever they do. So for me, or if you're going to recording where public having a low F-stop value lens, it's nice because you're not really jumping into people's privacy as bad. But yeah, I'd say go for the ZVE1 and then look up some used probably a 24 mil and a 50 millimeter prime lens on Amazon. Use of course. And then that's a pretty damn crazy story position. But that's my little tip there. And there should be all sorts of crazy like Christmas sales too. So some of the stuff will be a little bit knocked down. But that's probably enough nerdin' out about the camera shit. What am I gonna eat? I don't have room for much. I've got, uh, yeah, I'm gonna pull it up and drive it. But I got about 100 or so grams of protein left. Only like 20 or so grams of carbs and about 15 or so grams of fats. So I'm, uh, I think I've reached a point where ground beef can no longer be my primary protein source. It has been for a while and it's not going anywhere. I'm still gonna have some. But it's, uh, the fat and it adds up. You know, if every time I have 50 grams of ground beef, I got to track five grams of fat. 30, uh, so that's 45 calories. You know, that adds up. I don't have that many calories to work with here. So I think I'm gonna switch it up and start running through all my egg containers. And so that'll probably be my postwork at meal. A 50 grams of protein carton with egg whites. Pan-seared. Uh, even you wanna call eggs-seared. What do you want what you call that? Well, either way. 50 grams of egg whites as little oil as possible just to slick the, uh, slick the skillet. And then I don't think I have any. But I need to get some, some frozen spinach packets because those do, uh, those are really nice. Because through the whole thing in the microwave five minutes, instantly comes at perfectly cooked. And the primary value I feel of the vegetables apart from just like fiber intake and keeping all your, you know, internal movements more normal. Is, uh, the fact that it's just food with that a lot of calories. You know, so if I've got a big bowl or if I make myself an omelet, which by omelet, I just mean egg whites with anything else added. And I add a bunch of like chopped lettuce or chopped spinach or anything like that. Then it gives this bowl of eggs much more body and substance. So I really do feel like I'm eating a lot more. Even though it's only like five or six grams of carbs added from the vegetables, right? So personally, I'm under the impression that if you're eating a reasonable amount of red meats and you take your multi vitamins, then you're probably not going to have any vitamin deficiencies. So, you know, the argument of like, well, you're missing out on, you need to get all this stuff from your food if you, like, you're, like, short, go for it. Personally, for my experience, I haven't had any issues. And every time I get my blood tested and it shows all my nutrient levels, everything's within range, you know, so it's like, would it be better if I got all my potassium from eating whatever kind of potato has the most potassium throughout the day? Yeah, maybe might be a little better, but personally, it's at least right now that's going to interfere with my diet and goals. Because for me to get all my micro nutrients source from direct foods, it's going to be a little trickier and I'm going to be eating more foods and I probably want to. You know, right now is the time when it's probably most important for me to be supplementing my vitamin side of things because not eating a ton of everything. If you're eating a lot of food, I doubt that you're vitamin deficient and anything. Maybe you're vitamin D, but, you know, just takes up kind of a quick fix there. But especially if you're getting a little bit more sparse, that's where I'm going to be much more. Maybe not reliant, but I'm going to be much more consistent with like my electrolytes, making sure I don't forget my vitamins every night. Things like that because I really want to make sure I'm hitting all angles from my food intake. And the electrolytes, I probably say is even more important because I've only had 100 grams of carbs today. That's not a lot. And then when you add an hour of cardio in the morning, plus a workout later in the evening, it really doesn't feel like a lot of carbs. So if I'm hydrated, you know, I've got enough electrolytes in my system throughout the day from like packets or whatever else or just eating some salty foods, then at least my, because that's how your muscles work, but they don't just contract and release magically. It's all about sort of this like a electrolytes potassium back and forth of everything. Like you got a, you know, any biochemical majors would know what I'm really trying to explain here. But if you're running that, if you're running a little electrolytes, your shit is not going to work as well. So that's where every morning, my instant instant fix per se before getting ready for the cardio is either a flattened energy drink. Sometimes just a caffeine capsule. The caffeine capsule, much more cost effective if that's something you're thinking about because if you, you know, if you grab some kind of rain of whatever off the shelf every morning for your 200 milligrams of caffeine that you're aiming for to wake up. It's like four bucks a day over the course of a year. It's like 1200 bucks, right? And it's not including your pre-workout or anything else, whereas, you know, you buy a hundred count container of caffeine capsules, 200 milligrams of caffeine, the only active ingredient that you want. It's like four cents per, you know, so Gary Vee style shit there. But then you lose the ritual of cracking open. It's kind of a give-and-take. Much easier to bring around with you though. Like, yeah, I used to have it some caffeine capsules in my car at all times, just in case I forgot it, I'm a way to cardio. Now I don't, but sometimes. And that next to a leader of water with some kind of electrolyte mixed in. Be it from a tub or like a packet or anything else like that. Just so, you know, one of my bats that go to do cardio, plus a sauna, and sweat a ton. I'm already kind of like overloading my electrolytes and making up for the fact that I'm about to sweat a ton of amount. But that'll be the plan for tomorrow. Another one more clocked session of the bike. The treadmill. The sauna. And then I got a chest day later in the deep-baked. I think me and Mark are going to do a little tandem trip to to some kind of gym. I'm not exactly sure where. But I guess what does that to see then? So, good luck day. Handstring bias. Only a little bit of quad activation. It's a really, I'll just call today a handstring day in the title documentation. But good nonetheless. One step closer to what I'm aiming for. So, I'll see you tomorrow.

Alright, so just for clarification, sake, is the 12 days of Christmas the first 12 days of December? Or is it the 12 days leading up to Christmas? Or is it the 12 days after Christmas? That's something I'm kind of concerned about. Because that's what's going to decide whether today is either not a day of Christmas at all or if it's like the... Either way, on a cool, unfortunately, snowless Thursday. Yeah, Thursday night, exactly one week before Christmas. I'm getting a gift early. I'm opening one gift early, that's a gift to myself. Being... tell me. What kind of gift do you think I'm about to get tonight? Did you guess? And in saying chess comp, you would be freaking right. You would be more than right. So a chess comp plus a little bit of extra cardio afterward. So currently, the cardio routine is an hour in the morning. Nothing crazy, but 30 minutes on the bike, 30 minutes on the treadmill. I'm adding some sauna action. Not because the sauna magically burns fat or anything. But I just kind of like it. You know, if it's been good sweat, it just feels good. But not even true that's enough. So now, except for leg days, post workout is going to be 30 minutes on the bike as well. Or maybe actually, I think I'm meant to say, I'm going to do 15 minutes on the bike, 15 minutes on the treadmill. Nothing crazy, but these... I was about to say hours, but actually, I guess, we're going to do the hour range. But these minutes of cardio throughout the day, even if they're not the most stringuous thing in the world, they can add up pretty substantially. So for some guys, they really love tracking their steps. Like making sure you hit a certain amount of steps per day when they're dieting or just in general, like that's their sort of value that they aim for. With me, I kind of feel like you're right to walk an extra... or to make sure you walk like 10,000 steps that day. You definitely did burn here. Oh, he definitely did burn a certain amount of calories. But I've, for me, at least, and this is just a personal preference thing. It feels better for me to say, okay. I'm doing cardio. I want to do this cardio, specifically. I want to do... there we go. I want to do this cardio on a specific time. I want to do 30 minutes of cardio. I did my cardio right then. It's over with. So for whatever reason that just makes more sense to me. But I was a... I just de-rail by myself from that sort of delight. But either way. I'm sorry for the odds too, I've only... about 1,300 calories so far today. Actually, I think even less, only 1,100. I'm starting to feel the fatigue from getting into a reasonably steep deficit, which... That's just the nature of it. So as the caffeine that I... that it took in the pre-work after getting into the hit me, and once I actually get into the gym, I got my music playing. That tiredness will be gone. And then the lift can start. Right, but it's... it's more as I've had to say. I feel like I was getting on track to say, some kind of thing. Now it's gone. Well, maybe that's a good... maybe that's a good indicator. We should just quit yapping altogether. So how about we just jump straight to whatever set number one and to be for chest? Which... not sure. But I've got reason to believe. Maybe... Inclined Smith-Bachin-Bachin. But who's to say? I guess we're gonna find that together. I lied. Let's start with some... earth-style flies first. Flip chest ups that hand from... I don't know if we start it. What's up? What's up? What's up? What's up? What's up? Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Oh, my God. Mmm. I think I got it. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Oh, my God. Yeah. One more. I think it would be good for some incline Smith. Yeah. So, one more here. This one I might make a little nasty or toward the end. But awesome start. Very different from the typical fatigue of like... You know, starting with a heavy set of something. But I always start with heavy press. Right? Why don't you do the same exact workout every time? So, that's half the benefit of here. It's just different than what I normally do. Alright, come on. Alright. Mmm. You want? Mmm. No. What? What? You. You want me to? Oh. Okay. Hold me, you wrap. Oh. Yeah. Now let's go do some pressing. Those three hit me for the heart. Smith machine occupied. So let's do some of this chest press. I don't mind this one. It's not like my favorite. But again, in the spirit of changing things up, I don't normally do it. So, heavy straight set. Nothing fancy. Hold me. Hmm. Ah. Oh. Yeah. Ah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Oh, crap. One more. But I got to go a little bit lighter in the beginning. Full stack is especially after those three sets are flies on the beginning. It's too heavy. That was good enough. Oh, my goodness. Quicker too. Yeah. Okay. I'm not done. Let's make that a rest box. You. You. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. That's enough. I'm not sure where to move on to next. But chest is nearly done. Monument went. But enough. We're all really feeling on the squeeze portion. So this would be the reason we controlled. And there may be a superset for the next one. Or if this is it, then I'm going to call that too. My goal is not to do 10 sets, do six sets. It's get pumped. Satisfactorily wreck whatever muscle I'm hitting in however many sets that takes. And so it's not a number. It's more of a state of being. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You. The fuckers have. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Whoa. Get this. All right. Let's change it up. Finish with one superset of regular and decolon slice. I don't know what that. Jump was. But they're not myself. So that's good. One more. Then we go parts down. Okay. So classic finish your forming. Straight in front of the body flies. I'm going to try to get as little front of the activation as possible. But squeeze a lot of upper chest. And then when I basically reach failure or at least a close approximation. Rack it. Drop the weight by about half. And then instead of flies here in front of me. Going to more of this sort of big upward stretch. And then even though it's kind of a decline movement. I'm feeling like I'm squeezing my entire chest at the bottom portion. Because I may as well just be sitting here doing like a most muscular right. So when I feel my chest right here from squeezing like this. Sure lower packs firing. But I feel it all the way up here. It's my collarbone. So that's to be a good one. Now I just have to go nuts and film my pecks with as much blood as possible. No. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. Oh. Oh. Yeah. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Okay. All right. Let's go find some mirror space. So that was what? Three sets of flies. Two sets of machine press. One set of cable press. And then a thinning shirt set of cable flies. So seven total sets. Sounds about right to freaking me. So honestly. I think I'm fully pumped. It's just kind of sucks because some days I would never call it a wash. But especially card depleted flat. You can even slide. You probably argue slightly under recovered. It can be a little tricky getting fully, you know, pumped to the same level as like when I'm bulked like crazy. But they should still be reasonably freaky. Pumpwise. The fuck is that? Let's get scratched on something. Let's see. Let's see. Look at. So this morning especially after cardio plus the sauna. Abvines are beginning to appear. Nothing like, I mean, nothing too crazy. But I'm just talking about like real subtle just. Vascularity creeping up here. So as I continue the leaner. My whole torso should just get. Freaky or freaky or freaky or step it up. I don't have to explain that part. Let's be pretty obvious. Let's run through a couple here. Let's go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Holy crap. Even just sending your home these poses, especially post lift. It's getting my ass out of freaking breath. But let's see. It's pretty much all the rest. Just pose iguais. So, basically freaky. I think nothing else to say. Just go out and get back in the car. There we go. There we freaking go. Chest complete. I would say that was a good lift. I would not call that a insanely 10 out of 10. Crazy lift. But I'd say it was pretty good. The reason why I kind of bring the bar down that low is half because just a performance thing. When you're running low in carbs, you're running low on fats. It had 25 grams of fats of heart today. I was just looking at the macros. My current intake so far. I've had 100 grams of carbs. So that puts me 400 calories of carbs based calories. 25 grams of fat. So that's putting me in 225, so 6. And then about 130 of protein. So I'm only at like 1200 calories for the day. That's not a ton. I've had, I don't even like to say it like this. I've had single meals that are like one and a half times as much food as I mean you right now across the entire day. Oh my goodness. But that's all right. That is okay. The fact that it's hard is what makes it cool. I said, don't worry. I'm not going to see one of these uploads. And it's like, you know, I don't really feel like dieting anymore. We'll just be done with it. Don't worry. That would, yeah. That's an alternate freaking universe. But there is definitely an added difficulty, which is just, it's just different than the bulking, you know, like bulking up. And in the beginning, it's not too tricky either way. Like it's not hard to go a few weeks with no treats. You know, points a few months have begun to pass. You know, you start to have a dream that you're in crispy cream where you've got like a bowl of San Francisco and in front of you and then you wake up and there's a very illusion. You know, that's when you know you're really getting into it. But once you've really gotten to the point where it's getting hard, bulking up or kind of down, you know, they just come with their own difficulties. And it's kind of crazy how like exactly inverted they are. Which would make sense. I mean, obviously, if you're dieting down, you're going to want to eat more food. And if you're bulking up, you're going to get sick of eating so much food. But that's, that's something that I don't mind. Like I don't mind a very stark contrast, but it's okay. I'm bulking right now. Let's bulk out. Let's put on weight. I don't care if I get a little bit softer because it's for the overall, like, or the overarching goal of getting bigger, right, developing musculi. And then dieting down. I don't care if it's going to cut into my strength in the gym or if some of my pumps are going to diminish a little bit. Or if I got to deal with the fact that a little bit hungry, and I got to be a bit smarter about what I'm eating, because it's for the overarching goal of getting leaner. And I think it's kind of like having a double-edged sword in a good way. Usually that phrase is supposed to be negative. But, you know, how I look at these, like if I bulk up for long enough and hard enough, then I made substantial gains. And I am done bulking. So I'm ready to start dieting down. You know, I'm ready to get into a deficit or ease into a deficit. And then I'll diet down enough to the point where I'm like, okay, I'm leaning enough. I've peeled off some of the excess fat that I've gained over the last bulk in phase. Maintained a good chunk of the muscle underneath. Now I'm ready to fill back up. So it's kind of, it's like a yin and yin, you know, it's a good pendulum in and out of the tides because, or not because. But that gets me motivated because I know that no matter what time of year it is, I'm always on track towards something specific. Now, if you're working out in general, you go to the gym consistently four or five times a week. You're making sure you hit your protein every day. And then you get like a multivitamin and gummy every night. That's like 70% of it, honestly. You know, early 60% easy. And then, you know, try to train hard, of course, but just having that routine in place. It's already putting you ahead of so well, not even so many. Just everybody who's not even, you know, bringing it that hard. But what I was getting ready to say was, Grandpa was like a brazen. Yeah, oh yeah. So even if I've got like long term goals for my fitness, right? The body building side of things and like continue getting up in like the two 85 range or I mean, I used to say this as a joke, but now it's like a 290 pound peak bulk. That's not a question of if that's only a question of when at this point. But, you know, even though those are like my kind of overarching, like long term sort of things, in just short scales of a few months, like I'm only going to be diding for another two and a half months or so. And then I'm going to be back to bulky. So I'm on track for my long term goals. But it's boiled down. I've got some goals that I want to hit right freaking out. And then boiled those down even further to a day by day basis. My goal is okay. Don't completely go crazy and let my stomach to the talking and go to the fridge and just destroy, you know, everything in sight. So it's like every day I'm working towards something. And it's not necessarily that I'm saying that like every day I'm grinding. I'm just trying to say, I've got something that I can work towards. And that feels good over time. You know, one day of doing something that for yourself or like working on having good habits, like clean your room, do it like, you know, sometimes they'll get a little bit of like a manic kind of phase where you just, I'll basically just completely clean up my entire office room, sort everything, you know, sorts of little just junk, kind of get like built up. But doing that consistently, it starts to add up and then things just start moving smoother, you know, so that's why I like the the bulking cutting for me because I'm always on track towards something. And it keeps it interesting, you know, one month I might look like this and then six months down the line, especially with a haircut, you know, somebody who I talk to you all the time might walk up a high mean, not even recognize me. And that's for me, that's just fun. But a real tangible benefit, which I think a lot more lifters need to take into account, is the fact that they need to look at themselves and think, all right, have I made any progress in any way over the last six months? Am I a different lifter now than I was at the beginning of the year? In any capacity, I'm not saying you have to be, you know, 30 pounds bigger. But in just any capacity and in the lifting, there's a few, right, you've got basic just strength, size, leanness if you're trying to die down, or a little bit earlier into the curve of like getting into work an out. You've got just getting more locked in, like getting more consistent with your routine. That's as freaking sick of a goal as anything because it's, you know, it's always in relation to what your current level is, you know? So for me, if I've been used to, like, you know, my 30 minutes of cardio daily, then especially right now with the dieting, I want to step it up. So now I'm bumping it up to an hour. You know, bump it up to an extra, something that was only 20 minutes post workout, because the gym closed in my 30. I kind of forgot about that part. But, you know, up in the cardio, getting more, getting a little bit more, you know, intense that way. That's when I'm trying to work on. But, you know, for somebody who is just getting into the gym, you know, they're trying to fit into their weekly routine. Then to go from like an average gym or the word big, appearance, we'll say, per week of like, you know, going from two to two times a week to like, an average of four or five times a week, that's insane. That is freaking huge. So it's all about just trying to take yourself a little bit further than you are right now. And if you continue to do that, I mean, we've all seen the percentages and like the kind of motivating like Instagram posts, where it's like, one percent a day might not seem like much after one day. But after one year, you're 9 million percent better, you know, like little things like that. And as cliche as all those like classic motivational, like phrases and speeches are, they're cliche for a reason, because they get said so much because they're so freaking true. You know, it's like all the classic, you know, grass isn't green on the other side type situations, like that sort of shit, like, there's a real wisdom as words, you know. And it really only appears when you apply it to like some kind of situation that you're in. But, you know, insert some kind of phrase about like long term small steps. Everybody started somewhere. I remember my earliest sort of memories about the working out where when I was, you know, before I weighed, when I was like a kid and I'd be messing around on the crawl space of my house and my dad had put like all the dumbbells and some barbells and plates up there, just like for storage. I wonder if messing around with a 45 pound barbell when I was younger, maybe he played to the seed of what we're now looking at today. But, you know, who's to say? But what I'm trying to get at is like, you know, times pretty powerful fucking thing, freaking thing. I'm sorry about that. And if you can start to ride that wave before you know it, you're going to realize you've made some pretty decent distance compared to where you were, even just like a few months ago. So what I'm getting at is if you can tell things aren't necessarily going exactly how you want them to go, you're not as far as you want to be, then it's a little bit humbling, but the answer is not, okay, well, what's the best work I've split us you do? What's the new program? You gotta look at your own situation, think have I really been bringing it? Have I been doing my cardio? Have I been doing any cardio? Have I been getting enough sleep? Have I been drinking in the water? If I were to go workout today and only drink like, you know, a leader of water all day until right now, and that lift would have sucked. I've had like a gallon and a half, you know, plus enough electrolytes. So scale that up to however, you know, how much you weigh. There's little things that seem so insignificant, maybe you get enough sleep. Are you just, you know, trying to keep yourself in a good headspace so that you can be productive. Have any random, like, nagging, anxieties or things that you have in meanings or just whatever. You know, like all these tiny little things they add up. So if you can look at your situation, then think, okay. Yeah, I mean, I've been going to the gym pretty consistently, but every time I go in, I've just talked into, like, the crew, guys I work out with and we barely get anything done. It's like, we do more talk in the lifting than, and it sounds like you already know the answer and you really just have to act on it. But if you can get yourself into a state of up in yourself, like, up in the intensity, up in the consistency, up in your, just overall, like, hype for what you're doing, then over the course of just a few months, you should start to notice something change. Be it you locked into a dieting phase, you're down 10 pounds. You're starting to bulk up finally. You want to hit that 200 mark, pull it crap by getting 10 pounds last three weeks. Or no, the last three months. I only crap. I should have been tracking my calories this whole time. Okay, nice. Just a little things like that. Right. It's the glamour of the workin' out, like the being jacks and just being in shape. That's the pinnacle of the pyramid. Right. Like, going into the gym, having a pose down with a fancy lighting, everything else. That is the pinnacle of the pyramid. It would not exist if it wasn't for the whole support system underneath of the sleep and the diet and the recovery. And sleep, the diet, the hydration, everything else that goes along with it. So if you can put more emphasis on giving yourself a good base of support, I mean, I, barring any, you know, current architectural feats. And what was the biggest frickin' building that there ever was for quite a while? The dang pyramids. And they'd get a pretty wide base. I guess that's my little tip of the night. But I'm gonna have a very large, actually, two protein-focused meals. Probably 50 grams of protein with a bike weights followed by maybe a top-round stick for, I guess when you say, the dinner, the last meal of the night. Get a good night's rest, wake up early for some cardio in the morning, and then just keep repeating this loop for the next couple of weeks, next week's, next week's, next week's. But either way, try to build up some momentum coming into this year. Don't guilt yourself, get too soft. If you're trying to diet through Christmas. And other than that, assuming you're watching this, I think you know what you're doing. I think you've got a good grasp on it already. Just gotta make it happen. So I will see you for some back action tomorrow.

Alright, so today's gonna be not a quick one, but I'm definitely not gonna delete that way too much. You've got a family dinner for 530. It's currently 317. So however those two numbers are gonna have, we'll just have to see. But that'll be a good little test of will. Because that's a classic cheating in your diet situation. It's not always when you just hit home, you don't have any treats in the cupboard or anything. The only sweet oven down on is a couple bags of, you're not a couple, I should have got a couple, I got a bag of dried chopped strawberries. So every so often I'd go in and have a couple mouthfuls of that. About 6 grams of carbs each, which honestly, pretty effective treat. Nothing like it's no comparing to a fresh crispy cream. That should be obvious. But especially if you kind of hold yourself back and you're not just slamming that stuff all the time. Like right now, I'm eating pretty dang freaking clean. So that feels pretty good. That's not because of me, no worries. It kind of a crazy intersection over here. But all that's to say is, if I look to my left and Mark has a big bowl of whatever he's eaten. And it looks my right and my parents are eating whatever they're eaten. I don't know what I'm gonna eat. Because I'm not gonna overshoot. So I'll see if I can ask him to just make me like some plain chicken or something. Or just pick something that fits the goals I'm aiming for. Not a lot of fats, not a lot of carbs, and a whole lot of protein, which usually is a little bit tricky. Because even if you think you're getting like, okay, well, I'm dieting. I'll just get a steak. Let me get a 10 ounce rib eye. It'll be nice and lean. The things covered in butter. It's already like a fatty cut. You think you're eating healthy, but then you're getting like 60 grams of fat for your 60 grams of protein. It's kind of, it's a little bit of a back and forth. It's hard to get around. Plus, I mean, any restaurant, too. They want their food to taste good. That's how they make money, right? They sell good food. So what makes food taste good? Carves, fats, sugars, seasonings, everything else. So you gotta be a little mindful. And that's where I would really recommend you try to figure out how to track this stuff. I don't want to say intuitively, but without having to only rely on nutrition labels. Because a lot of the time, you can't always just be able to scan your little thing into my fitness path. That's what you're into and get that info. You're gonna have to kind of guess it yourself. So once you've counted your macros for long enough, you kind of develop a bit of an eye for them. You know, it's like how you could probably guess that a hundred pound dumbbell is going to be a bit heavier than the 50 pound dumbbell. Is it bigger? Just a little visualizing by eye, as well as the practice of having already tracked all this stuff beforehand. You basically get to a point where you don't need to know the exact ingredients and everything else of whatever you're eating. Because just by looking just by tasting, you can see how much grease is on the side of it. Or you know how big of a bun this is. I would probably do pretty good if they made a TV show called the calories is right. The calories is right. You know, take the prices right, but instead of guessing how much food or how much this stuff costs, like put a plate of food in front of me and say, okay, Sam, 60 seconds on the clock. Top prize. If you can guess within a 10% error of the carbs, fats and proteins in this plate of steak, potatoes and. Bisc. I don't know, some shit like that, right. And that's that's something that isn't super easy to do. And by easy to do, I mean, it just kind of takes a little while, right. But if you track your stuff consistently, you do get a good sense for it. And some people see that as a negative. Like some guys or anybody else think, oh, well, all you. Every time you think about the food that you're eating, you just think about how many calories are in it. And you're thinking about, I don't want to think about that. Like it's, um, it's intentional ignorance. You know, you're turning away from the light. So that's where it's, uh, you can lead the lifters to the macro tracker. You can't force them to input his values. But for anybody where you do want to kind of get a better grasp on your gains and take more control of the progress you want to make. Getting more in tune with, you know, proteins, carbs, fats, macro tracking in general. I do think that could be a pretty solid boost. But let's not turn this whole talk into a macro chat, macro chat, macro chat. Playing for tonight's lift with back. Just get it back bump. I'm saying that too crazy. I'm not going to do any really heavy rowing. Like there's a reason you haven't seen me do any like three plate, three plate and 25 pound. I thought I was going to hit him. Like there's a reason you haven't seen me do any really heavy bent over barbell rows. And it's because I don't need to, you know, like as much as I'm kind of the anti science, like just go hard, whatever, if we're all in payment for, is stimulating my lats and my traps, then I don't need to overload my glutes and my lower back and my erectors and my whole posterior chain with hundreds of pounds to get that effect. And in a bodybuilding context, it's not even what I'm paying for, you know, I don't really want a massive thick trunk, right? I don't need my lower back to being extra inch thick. If anything, I kind of wanted to stay the exact same size it is and have my lats grow around it, so I can kind of keep my waist more tapered. And that's because I'm not training for like pure performance, you know, in an athletic context, functional movements, you know, deadlifts, everything else. That's got it. It has a completely different value because you're looking at it from a completely different perspective. But for me, I'm coming into the gym with a goal of I want to pump up my lats, my traps, all sorts of fancy, like rum void, terries major stuff in between, like those little detailed muscles on the upper corners of your back. And I don't want to work anything else. You know, that's why I've got a pair of freaking straps in my bag, so that when I do like a pull down or a row or anything where I'm pulling, I don't have to send as many signals to my forearm and having else to really grip onto whatever handle and holding, because that just takes away from the activation I'm getting to my lats. So do I need to completely load my lower back in order to work my other traps or my mid back? Not exactly. So, you know, bodybuilding context, I do tend to lean towards a bit more chest supported rows or just, you know, more seated cable rows. Which are a bit easier on your lower back in terms of overall loading. And I think half of it is to do just with the angle of the movement itself. But also, since you're sitting down instead of bending over, like you're only using your lower back to support the weight that you're lifting, you don't have to hold your entire body up from falling over. But all that's to say is every set I want to completely fatigue whatever portion of my back that I'm aiming for, make sure I hit it from all angles, lats, upper traps, mid traps. I want to do some stuff where I can really feel my lats like squeeze extra deep. So a pull down sometimes doesn't do that for me. With a strip or a pull down or any kind of pull down machine, I get a lot of lot of activation. Like it's very squee or stretch focused. But only on something like a pull over, single-large cable pull over, and I really can feel like every fiber of my latt-word ties in right over my hip really tense up. And then at the end of it, assuming I'm fully pumped and I can tell I went hard, I get to go home and say, yippee. So let's stop chatting, just going to make this shit happen. This stuff happened. I know I usually say start every lift with a different move in the last one, or at least try to change it up a bit, but given the equipment that's open, I can't really think of a better start than single-arm pull-outs here. I think it's kind of quick. I don't need these to be super slow controlled, because by rep 10, even if they are a little quicker, I am going to feel some pretty serious latt-foot-tig. And I can move on to a different move in first, low controlled set. Okay, okay, okay, let's go. You know, you know, you know, you know, okay, all the crap. One more release, maybe two more. Let's see. No. Yeah. One more after this one. One more. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh my gosh. Yeah. Yeah. That's moving on to something else. That's a good thing. Yeah. Nice and simple start. I think a set of pull-ups is an order. And now that I'm down, I don't know how many pounds for a peak bulk, I can actually do so. So, same style as the pull-ups on the set is a straight set of fairly with some partials. There. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Similar style, not like super slow control. There we go. There we go. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. One more. Let's drop this a little way to just from 15 to 0. Okay. I know to finish is going to be. That's not wasting its time to get straight to it. So if you guessed this apparatus, then you would be right, but I got to skip the explanation because I am. I mean, last set, so I wouldn't say I'm in a rush, but let's get this pop finish. Yeah. Let's put this bench away and go close down. That's back, dates. Back complete in a total of two, three, four. Seven sets, I think. I can't have lost track of my mind a little bit there, but that's enough. You know, I was saying yesterday, I'm not coming into the gym with the goal of, okay, I'm going to come and do 20 working sets. I'm coming to the gym with the goal of, okay, I want to pump the freaking S.H. IT out of my back in however many sets necessary. End of story. End of story. Oh, hey. You know, goodness. All right, so pumped reasonably fatigued. And now, my primary concern is make sure that we go to dinner. I do not exceed my a lot of calorie intake. And I don't mean the day, I mean for that meal. So, I'm getting close to damn near just 2,000 calories for the whole day. So, if I want to eat more than twice, I need to have smaller sized meals. So, I kind of like to cap it at like 600 per. But I guess I'm just having to update for you about that tomorrow. So, let's get the car. Yeah, that was a good one. That was a good one. It doesn't take too much either, but, honestly, I would not have mined swapping out. All right, we're not have mined it swapping out that seated chest supported row with some other kind of variation. Like, it would be awesome if this gym had sort of, you know, one of the upward rows kind of, you know, lever armage, plate loaded. But, kind of, change in, they got about all the equipment from the same places. So, what are you going to do? But, still pretty good. And honestly, I mean, I'm not particularly picky when it comes to the movements. I've gone through a couple or like, I think, six or seven months stint. Where the only gym I had access to was the home gym. That was like right when COVID smacked down. And everything was like legit clothes, not just like clothes sometimes, like, social distancing. Like, there was some, oh crap. I didn't even think about it. How many lifters had to completely cut the gym out of their routine, because they didn't have any kind of home gym action. And I don't even want to think about it. But luckily enough, I was stocked a little bit. And I was like, wreck dumbbells up to 50 pounds plus like a 60 pound set of the ones where like you screw the plates on the side. So, now we're definitely well. So, all my back days were like bent over a barbell rows. Single arm pull down to a, like, a really jerry rigs kind of cable set up. That actually was pretty smooth. I get worked really well. The only problem was it was the weight was just like swinging on a cable. So, if you built up too much momentum, you had like, you know, 90 pounds just swinging around the place. So, that was an awesome. But, as long as you can do enough movements, or you can hit whatever muscle you're targeting reasonably well, yeah, you just don't need that much. Right? I mean, it's a creature comfort. Obviously, you're going to probably be better off with a fully stocked gym. But, if it's more consistent for you or easier for you to be consistent by having like, you know, couple sets of dumbbells, maybe one of those adjustable ones where like, you spin the latch around and it grabs plates or removes them like the adjustable home dumbbells. And then, I mean, even that was like a pull-up bar. You basically have your whole torso set. As you can do back, you can do chest. You can do, you can do arms, you can do shoulders. And you can get some leg action, you know. Hamstrings is a bit trickier without proper equipment. You can't really do so much hamstring-wise. That's where, in my mind, I always imagine upgrading my parents' basement gym with like a combination leg extension leg curl. Like that would have been freaking insane. Never ended up happening, but, yeah, what do you do? But, other than that, it's like, whatever equipment you have is fucking perfect. Or it is freaking perfect, you know. So, don't get too hung up. Like, I'll see some guys where their first instinct when they walk into a gym if it doesn't have all the equipment that they want, or if it's a little bit too busy, like it totally throws them off. And they're going to walk into the gym with a negative mentality of only seeing the things that are, you know, they consider as a detriment to their work. Oh, my God, it's so crowded here. Oh, oh, she, everybody's doing chest. I'm doing chest today. Oh, man, they don't have the leg extension broken. What am I supposed to do? You know, and it's like, you're not wrong, but not being wrong doesn't make you right. So, what's your overarching goal? You want to come to the gym, you want to have a good workout. But you probably also want to feel pretty good doing it. And feeling good is just as much mental as it is physical. So, if I walk into the gym today and let's say everybody was using like all the back equipment, then maybe, you know, kind of an instinctual thought might pop up in my mind, where I'm like, with the heck, today's Friday, and it really is, it was national back day. You know, like that, I'm not going to say that might not pop up in my mind. I'm not so, you know, zen that I don't get that kind of like little frustration. But I would want to at least try to snuff that out and replace it with, okay. Well, what am I going to do? So, let's get a gameplay of here. Because the more you're dwelling on that, like crap, everybody's in, like, how are you supposed to get any good work done? And then you're just like grumbling in your own mind to tease yourself. Like, what do you do? So, at least that's what I'm trying to do. I'm not saying I do that every time, you know, if you, if the odds are stacked against me, let's say I got bad sleep, I'm in a rush. I am, like, just, for whatever reason, like, a little bit antsy or whatever, and then I walk in the gym, and then everybody's using all the equipment that I was planning to use in my mind already. Then, yeah, I mean, I might be like, oh, shit. But I try not to. Because it's just not conducive with having fun or having a good workout. And those are kind of, those are up there. You know, I've got a few goals every lift. Not hurt myself. That one has become more and more prevalent in my mind as time has passed. Because I've pushed the envelope pretty bad. Like, I've had some good chess poles, and some hamstring pops, and all sorts of everything. And I don't like being hurt sucks. So, I do not want to do that anymore. And especially if it's at my own hand, I mean, we'd be the pure foolishness. So, that's where, so, one of my highest priorities now is just the lack of self-induced injury. But in a more like, just subjective approach, I want to be able to feel good after these workouts. And I really want to feel, be able to feel good while I'm doing them. So, I was just doing a whole talk on the drive home yesterday. I'm kind of, you know, reiterating myself here. But that feeling good in the gym part, that is not to do with your, like, motivation or your hype, or just, you know, whatever kind of amount of lock to it, locked in the mentality you're thinking about. Like, 80% of feeling good in pushing yourself hard in the gym and enjoying it is going to come from the pillars of support that happen outside of the gym. Getting a good amount of sleep staying well hydrated, having a reasonable diet. And I know that, at my sound kind of silly for me to say, but when I say reasonable diet, I mean a diet that's conducive with whatever your goals are at the time. So, if my goal is to, you know, bulk up and gain as much weight as possible over the course of, like, six months, then yeah, I'm going to have some treats in there too. But if my goal is to diet down, I'm going to be just a strict and reverse, you know. So, don't add reasonable for what your goals are. But if those things are in line, then to have a good workout is like, it's just a matter of course. It's not even something you have to, you know, really think about because it's not so much that you're suddenly doing things which are going to boost your workout into out of this world proportions. But you're just negating any potential drawbacks for yourself, right? I mean, to walk into the gym with basically being in a dehydrated state boom, you just put rocks in your shoes. So, walk into the gym and you definitely did not sleep well enough. What's it, what's it good little, well, that sucks too. And then to come into the gym and have, get this carmels to work down. But to come into the gym under Fed and you can tell that you really aren't properly fed. Then your energy levels are going to suffer too. I mean, all those things add up. So, to do those, doesn't feel that glamorous. You know, go to bed or drink your water, right? Eat pretty reasonable meals. Like, that's not really the fun part, there's no glamour there. But when you come into the gym and you work out and you're trying to perform the preparation you did beforehand, we'll pay off. And for me, that's what I like. When I come into the gym, I want to feel good, I want to push myself hard, I want to break it sweat. I don't want it to feel like work. So, if I'm well fed, well rested, well hydrated, then that ends up being the case. And it's just, you know, works out way better for me. Like, are you going to get more work done at your desk if it's covered in trash, and, you know, half of your computer's wires are like unplugged, or you get more work done if everything's nice and clean and orderly. And you're, you know, you're just setting yourself up for success like that. So, as, as mundane as it sounds, right? It sounds like every mom comes to the earlier, you know, drink how much water did you eat today? Like, a lot of truth to it, a lot of truth to it, that's what I'll say there. So, oh, you can't tell I got to say? Yeah, I wrapped it up. Day 70 something, so I don't see you for what I hope to be a highly-striated, vaining, an overall freaky arm day tomorrow. And I say, hope, it's not a hope thing. I know that's going to be the case. So, I'll see you then.

Alright, today is quite a head of schedule. You would not believe what time it is. And this is not cardio. I mean, there's going to be some post-lifed cardio, but this is not the dedicated cardio that I either. It's 11, freaking 30. Now, of course, it's a Saturday, so it's not like the gym is going to be completely dead like a weekday, but either way, this is weekend. So now, I'll just have a, I don't know, it feels kind of weird. Like, I think my, my circadian rhythm of lifting has me lifting a little more like 6 p.m. or later, but I feel like I'm kind of hurting my sleep. And I'm not saying that I can like, I'm laying in bed jittery three hours after I drink, whatever pre I just had, but even if you can still fall asleep with some caffeine in your system, it doesn't mean you're in like complete ram or complete everything else. Like, get in all that, after what's, what are the sort of resulting compounds of the caffeine, it's like, nor up the feds, or something along this line. Like, just having that in your system while you're sleeping, it's kind of taken away from your restfulness. So I think it's probably gonna be in my best interest to make these lifts a little bit earlier in the day. Maybe not this early every time, but a little bit earlier. So this'll be a quick little, just a description of what this lift will look like. And half of it, I mean, we'll just have to see, you know? I mean, try steps first. And I definitely wanna do some machine dips because I haven't done those for the last like, two or three arm days, but other than that, I mean, biceps can be really fucking simple. You know, I don't have to sit in here and do, like, eight different kinds of curls. Like, last arm day, the only real curl I ended up doing was like kind of a cambered cable curl. And by the time I did four sets of those, my biceps are wrecked. And with something like biceps, tries a little bit more complicated, but biceps, especially. There's not that complicated of a muscle, you know? Like your chest, obviously, you wanna do pressing, you wanna do flies, you wanna do incline pressing and flat pressing, maybe some decline like, big stretch work. Now with your back, you gotta do pull downs. Lat folk is movements. Rose, more mid back, maybe some sort of upward angle and rose for your upper back, like that sort of stuff. But with, oh, and then with triceps, you definitely should be hitting it from, I'd say, these three different ways. You gotta regular push down, be it rope, be it a straight bar, be it a W bar, be it a V bar, whatever, like a push down here, and overhead based extension, to be a bit more stretch focused, as well as a dipping movement. And one could argue that the dip is almost, just like the push down, it's just only slightly different. But I'd say those are the big three, but with biceps, I mean, even when you're doing a preacher curl, or a barbell curl, or a concentration curl, or whatever. It's not really changing that much, you know? So, oh, that's all that's to say. It's like if you do a set of dumbbell curls, and they click, and you're like, holy crap, these feel really good. And then you do another set, and that one feels pretty good too. You do another set, that one feels pretty good. It's like, okay, if I do like four more of these, I'm probably gonna be fully pumped. Like I can tell my whole biceps can hit, and then I would just stay there. Like I wouldn't see the need to wanna move on anything else. If that's already really work. So, it's not like I'm saying never do different movements or biceps. Lift by lift. Your work at should look pretty different, just to make sure you're hitting everything in all sorts of different ways. But don't feel like you have to. I mean, I've had arm days where all it was was, not straight bar, but like a W bar, pushed down heavy eight sets, and then dumbbell curls right off the rack. 60, 60, get a little bit weaker, drop to a 50, a little bit weaker, drop to a 40. Maybe do a, like a squeezing superset at the end, like little things like that. And before you know, and boom, full on arm pump. You have no idea that I didn't just do a 10 diff, because it's, I don't know, I feel like that's just kinda some kind of misconceptions. Like I see that a lot in a lot of comment sections of anybody's work at, and it's always like, all you did was dumbbell curls, why do you specifically target your break your ringialis? Why don't you specifically target the long end and the short head of your bicep with it? It's like dude. Do a crazy set of dumbbell curls. Go hard, really push it, and then you tell me if you can feel any portion of your bicep, that still feels extra strong and it wasn't worked. Because as much value as there is to specifically targeting different portions, like I think that's totally true. But as much value as there is to that, don't get lost in that details, right? We've all heard the phrase, you focus on the tree, you lose the force, you know, you focus on, well, you get what I'm saying there. But either way, let's just jump in there, get this arm day started. It's early on day started. So let's change it up. I've been starting with a rope extension, like every trisip lift, haven't given the crossbow extension as much love. So like 30 pounds each, this is a weight that I can manage, but these reps are very well. So I'm gonna make use of that by when I get the pulley extended position, really try to wrench it as if I'm trying to bend my arm backwards straight out of the extra system. So a hard, hard long squeeze at the bottom, like a full second, up very slowly, try to feel my whole trisip, like relax, and then just repeat until failure. You know, simple enough, but a little easier seven down. One breaths. Yoyosh! Yoyosh! It's your second punch. My... But I need to ask that. You do. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Okay. What a two more. Let's get open. No. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Oh, God. Oh, my God. Yeah. No. Oh, okay. All right. Yeah. Let's do some dips next. I'll be going to change up. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. One more like that. Yeah. Yeah. No. No, okay. Okay. Yeah. Let's get some more dips. Oh. Yeah. KA Oh.... . Now. Yeah. Yeah... Hmmm. That's coming on my curriculum. One more important thing. I guess the one here is blood. Yeah yeah. Oh my God. Straightinaur drops out, or a superset runner. Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I was bad. You know what? Yeah. You. You. You. You. You. You. You. Okay. Oh, man. I was bad to say I'm going to need one more set. But that little drop into the regular push dance. When you try to start done, let's start curling something gosh nangin'. Alright. So I've got a history of starting with curls. Don't bell curls, preacher curls, cable curls, whatever. Now that I think about it, I don't think I've ever started the bicep day with the bicep biased pull dance. So in the spirit of changing shit up, changing stuff up. Let's start with some of those first. Can I lift you up? Don't beat me up I ain't  ame out how to dance. Sucuri hums. You. Oh. No. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Go. Get on. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, no. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. I'm gonna get it. Yeah. Yeah. Let's do a machine, guys. I think. So what I'm thinking here is alternating five reps at a time of a pretty moderate weight for these curls. And not too heavy. Like honestly, if you would call that last set 100% weight like failure at six plus impartials, this might be 50%. Where every rep, oh, I guess I'm kind of just combining the hard squeezing portion of those bicep bias pull nands with a little more heft of a conventional curl. But let me see how that is 130 feel. Yeah. Just do one 10. Just barely above half of the slide. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There we go. Oh. Yeah. Yeah. No. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, that's a bit of a year. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Arms are fully pumped. Let's go find some lighting. It's the other really looking. There we go. All right. Arms pretty much pumped to heck. Didn't take that much either. Those sets weren't the craziest. That wasn't like my really heavy leg day every set is like a huff and puff. You know, like event. And honestly, it's almost like, like my energy was good, but I feel like I wasn't as hyped today as normal. Which, I mean, I'm not saying that. Like it was a bad thing. The vibe of that lift just, that's a little bit more chill, which whatever. I don't think the pump has suffered much at all. So let's see how we're looking here. Yeah. Trying to get to make sure my arms are totally symmetrical. Let me show it more. Yeah. Oh, crap. Yeah. We are most certainly getting somewhere. And especially in that front last bread. Like I've been, I've been hidden at this for months. And now it's finally starting to happen. I can actually see some strong separation of shoulder, tricep, bicep on our teeth. So what used to be kind of just a little bit of a smooth transition is now getting a little more angular. And then as I get leaner, that is only going to become more and more abrupt. Like right here shoulder striations, bicep, brykianos, tricep. Ideally that will all be very sharp. Sharpe is a good description. Oh. Okay. Now am I hallucinating? Or is that a hint of some tricep striations right there? Oh. Let's trick it to reach around this far. There we go. And that's just freaking cool. But arms complete. So now let's just get in the car. Head back home and eat something. I am hungry. Also thirsty. There we go. Okay. Some time has actually passed since that posed him because 30 minutes on the seated bike turned into 60 minutes on the seated bike. Now when it comes to cardio, if you've, which you know, the topic I've referenced reasonably frequently, I would say this for the most part, your best bet. Thanks to heavy noise. There we go. But for the most part, I would say your best bet with the cardio. If you want to have like an active routine is going to be cardio in the morning. Go about your day, eat some food, kind of, get back to baseline and then lift a little bit later. You know, whether that lift is a four or six or eight or whatever. Cardiola morning and then lift a night. But for me, at least that makes the most sense. It gives me time to go through the day to get warmed up. Get some food in my system. Then have a good workout at night. You did another meal afterwards and go to sleep. But I got a lot of cardio to do right now. So I'm going to have another, technically this is actually the morning session. Oh, no, what am I saying? Oh, no, it's an earlier session. So yeah, but I've got the cardio in the morning in cardio, post the lift. So, double it up. Usually I just ended doing an hour in the morning and then 30 minutes after the lift. But today, it felt a little bit extra cheeky. Get a, get a three to three to three here. And the reason I would say you probably wouldn't want to do your cardio, post workout is because after workout, you should go home and eat something. I jump straight to the recovery process. But that's more of so for a maintained baseline kind of maintenance, whoever you're aiming for. This is, this is definitely pushing the envelope in terms of the calorie burning side of things. So, I'm going to go a little bit extra far beyond. But I mean, I just don't understand the hate. I mean, the cardio is so easy. Like, I think it's just an idea. The word cardio is scary. So, maybe next time you feel like you're in a safe space. Nope. You don't have to take them to the threats around you in the gym. Just take a seat on the seat of bike. You know, don't even start pedaling. Just take a seat playing your phone, you know, mess with the buttons. And then maybe put your feet on the pedals and just see what happens. So, no pressure. And before you know it, I think you'll get it. You'll suddenly grasp what I've been trying to say all along. But I feel rather tired. So, I'm going to have a good postwork at meal. Probably 10 or 12 ounces of top round steak with very minimal oil to sear. And whatever, pan-lay end up using. And then maybe, uh, I just do some steamed broccoli. Just, uh, just for the sake of having more fluff to eat. Because there's a certain value to just eating food where having stuff in your stomach makes you feel full. Not having stuff that's really like calorie-dense or anything. Because what's going to make you feel more full? Eating two pound strawberries, or a pint of energy. The pint of energy has five times the calories. But, you know, by the time you've actually eaten the whole thing, you're not going to feel that full. Whereas even two pounds of freaking strawberries, that would fill you up. So, honestly, that's kind of making me think I should stop at the store and grab some of those. Because dining down at least, it's always a bit easier for me to stick to more whole foods. And with that, I mean, just like basic stuff. You know, changing it up or, uh, or, you know, trying to hack the system by eating, like, protein bars and, like, the low carb, um, treats and stuff that you see in all the vending machines. Like, it's, it's just not really any better, you know? Like, if you got a protein bar where it was like low carb, you know, it's flavored with, like, all the sugar alcohols and the erythritol and all sorts of fancy, like, Sugar replacements or whatever, where it's like, oh, it's actually only got two calories per gram instead of four. You know, by the time you look at all the macros, you flip it around, okay, 15 grams of protein. I'd probably just rather have that from, like, some ground beef, some turkey. 15 grams or, like, 18 grams of fats, okay, that's actually a lot of fat with the, I thought this is supposed to be a low calorie thing. And then, you know, a bunch of, um, like, carb, sweetener replacements, where if you eat a bunch of them, it totally just mixes your stomach up and makes it feel bloated right? So it's, at that point, I'd rather just have, like, a couple ounces of ground beef and just substrate up chocolate or something. It would have the same coloric value, you know, so there really is no getting around just being a little bit strict with the calories themselves. But I could tell, I could probably do it with an app. I could see a nap happening very soon. Once I get back to the house. But anyway, I think we'll just call it there, make this a little bit of a quick one. So December 22nd for you, three days until Christmas. And this year, at least for us, it's a little bit different. You know, Santa doesn't have a naughty list. And he's got a list of guys who have been skipping their cardio. And yeah, unfortunately for you, Dennis, you're on that list. And I know you're laughing at your buddy Paul, but guess what, you're on that list too. Because he knows that he checked it twice. Yeah, no gifts for you. You're getting straight keen-wise in your stocking. You know, he's not going to hang that cold, but pretty close. Either way. I don't see you for some leg action tomorrow.

Here we go. Back again, an early-ish lift as well. 349. The sun still up very nice to remain. Keeping with a good schedule. So after an hour of cardio in the morning, plus some ab work, it's time for legs. It's time for legs fueled by 1200 calories of jet fuel, aka egg whites with chopped spinach and fat free cheese, as well as a one of the protein, low carb, flavored, sweet, whatever kind of like fake Reese's cups, which I just went on a little bit of a rant about saying, you're usually better off just going for the real thing. So kind of going against my own best judgment. But it tastes pretty good and for 200 calories, 14 grams of fat 10 grams of neck carbs plus 80 grams of the weight isolate protein that they use. That's terrible. And at the end of the day, the dieting isn't the hardest thing in the world. I don't know. Isn't the most complicated thing in the world? It's definitely a little bit tricky, difficult to watch. But it's just simply not exceeding my calorie limit. So I can tell I do need something sweet every now and again to kind of tide me over. Otherwise, I'd probably just go freaking nuts in the pantry at like 11 o'clock at night when I'm trying to go to bed because I need to quench it. And that's where some of the zero calorie like soda isn't stuff, can come into play as a little sweet tooth curbing agents. And that's something that I just do not understand. I mean, the diet soda gets so much hate. Like, have you ever drank a, uh, you're going to get a rate zero? Do you think that? Like, what? What is the diet soda gets so much hate? I think we all know why. It's because everybody, for, you know, however long has been saying, well, the diet soda is actually worse for you than the full sugar soda. Yeah, let's just say I would beg to differ. But that's a talk for it's own day. Playing for lakes, hamstrings in quads. I want to stimulate them as much as necessary, combined with pumping them up as much as possible. And in the process, not hurt myself. So hamstrings, I have an easy enough time with. Hamstring curls, laying, seated, maybe some arty else potentially some cable arty else. That'll be sweet. And honestly, strength doesn't come into, it doesn't come into play as a factor so much. Like, with chest, I'm definitely going lighter now that I'm dying. But with hamstrings, it's like, I don't necessarily, like, I'm going lighter, but none of the movements are like really heavy anyway. Quads is where I back off, you know, not doing 10 set, or 10 plate leg press. I'm going to ease it a little bit more, just stimulate a work. So leg extensions for sure. Are we some machine like press? Maybe it's touches this, he's quads. We'll just have to see. But I'm going to aim for hamstrings first and then follow with quads in the second half. And hopefully within about an hour and a half or so, I'll be standing in front of the mirror with a set of 20 trunks saying, holy crap. Never seen that name before. So I guess we'll just see if that prediction is going to be an accurate dawn. Ahhhh  morgarse LIKE THAT Just Just Its Yeah, cool. Oh my god. Let's see, two more nasty ones like that. And then move out of something, write and squeeze in. Ah. No. No, we gotta kill. All right, I like it. I do one more just like that, but I gotta drop the weight. Stack is way too much for three with the last of you little heavy use, okay? But one more at one, 15 instead of 190. And then have some cutie, cable already, I like it. No. No. Oh, no. Oh, my god. Oh, holy crap. Oh. Main point here, apart from just doing RDL and filling your hamstrings, is I love these cables, because I was just explaining something instead of like smith machines on a bar, but a bar has to stay in front of your shins. They can't take it, except this is freaking reality. With the cables, my hands can be, right? I'll take some of my sides, which is true for dumbbell too. But it's just not the same. So let's get it out done. And honestly, the feel of wrap of the stack was might have been a little too heavy with the feet. Oh, okay. All right. No. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh, no. Oh, okay. No, my god. Oh, jeez. Yeah, one more of those. And then I'm ready for quads. Yeah, I'm just getting racked by those hamstrings, curls. You know it. No. No. Oh, yeah, I can't. No. Oh, okay. Let's go do some like extensions. So standard procedure. Five reps from the left side. Well, five in the right, five in the left. And then this is serving as a warm-up set and a working set. So this is not insane weight. And the first five reps on the outside will feel like nothing, like all be able to get five. But by the time I get to like the third or fourth back and fourth, I should start to feel some fatigue built up. And then by the time I'm having trouble even getting those five out, I'll call the set. I'm not necessarily dying to reach a point to my. Absolutely. Completely muscular failure. At least not right now. Fast forward a few months to, you know, carved up muscle building this. That'll be different story. 145. 145. 145. Oh, that'd be good. You're more like that. That's going to be one, not a check of your, the one 60. You got a little bit of a pattern to build up here, because I want this set to be the last year, the last one. And I've been a fast at taste. Not to the point where like I kicked away the pad launchers that I catch it again. That would be too far, but just faster pace more like pumping do some reps. Because as much value as there is in a slow, controlled, squeezing set, I really don't want to do every set of every workout like that. And nor should I. I want to completely lock myself into a box of only one specific style and it kind of sucks because that's all we hear. It's like, oh, you got to do all you reps slow. You got to do full concentric. It'll do a three second, each inch dude. Get a pump. Go hard and do it by any means necessary. Now, I think a good methodical with purpose to that. Just make sure you hit the spectrum on both ends. You know, some more pumpish faster pace reps combine with some slower squeezing holding reps. I think that's the sweet spot being widely trained almost. But let me, yeah. Oh, come on. There we go. All right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. One more dose. Actually a little lighter. That might have been pushing it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Oh. Let's move on. Let's get a good set of. Moderate weight. Let's go. Once I pick a good set, I need to go along with that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. Yeah. That's something zijn the rest of us. Yeah. Yeah. necessary to wall generals that one of them. Oh, you're the way. Let's go, ponce down. Oh crap. Oh, that's not supposed to be so heavy. Goodness. I like it. Let's do one set of 60 squats. Just do the finish popping sort of set. And technically this is the second set. Here's the first one. I wanted to do a filler wrap and other though. So I could feel it's pretty good. One more of these. Very very wet stretch focus. Nice focus. Yeah. Oh, fuck. Oh, I'm here. Now let's go close that. Okay, so hamstrings. Very conventional. Quads took a little bit of a turn. But those sea squats felt really good. So if it's just you, like you don't have like a, you know, like a, you know, like a, gym membership or whatever, you know, doing home style workouts. Usually unless you have like some kind of weight to do some weighted quad squats, I would have said you're at a look. But honestly, those 60 squats are a fucking game changer. And why I say that is because just zoom in only on your knee. What do you do during a leg extension, right? That's it. And in a 60 squat, same thing. My body's not moving. Feeling like me is bending on my knees. So be a little careful about him. It is a lot of tension, you know, pretty much your entire body weight going through your knees. I mean, minimal quad, I don't know. Maximum quad activation, minimal glute activation. But solid isolation. And something about the stretch portion too is nuts. I'm not crap at all. Well, okay. These pants are like tied at the bottom. Not going to be able to get them around my shoes. But how are quad's looking? Give me an honest update. Don't hold back. Oh, all right. Now we're getting somewhere. And don't forget, this is with a quad pump too. So, dire and that diet a bit flat. This left quad will look even freakier than it already does with all these kind of cross striations and feathering. Woo. Yeah, right sides a little bit behind. Actually, the right side looks like it's got a little more feathering game down here. The left one, this whole sort of ladder roller, whatever they call it. That's got most of my striated qualities. Well, let's just kind of go through some regular style standing poses. Holy crap. It's already even stand up with my quad's pump right now. Oh, boy. So, as I keep getting leaner, this separating area of quad to hamstring will only get freaky and freaky here. And looks like the calf-free game is coming along reasonably nicely as well. Oh, yeah, the left one's really got some veins going on. Oh, that's cool to see. I'm considering doing some pump check hiatus. And now I'm not confirmed on that yet, but looking at yourself every day, the changes become a little bit more marginal, whereas, you know, if you're diving down, and you only really check yourself out, pumps once a week, you may actually really be able to notice some of the reps changes. And those are very motivating to see. But either way, let's go grab my stuff and get the car. I am tired. There we go. That was a good one. That was a good one. To the point, did not require one million different kinds of sets, and one million different kind of super, whatever. Honestly, I think my leg days and some of my lifts are going to begin to get much simpler. Like, that leg press was not even working with me. Something that definitely the pressing just gets harder and harder, which, I mean, my sound obvious. But, yeah, I would have been better off not even doing that once, and just doing a few supersets of the leg extensions, Sissy Squad combo. So, the legs days might become a little bit monotonous, but I'm trying to fight against the internal hype to try to do some crazy sets of squats. Now, even today when I was doing those sets of leg extensions, I was kind of getting myself abdupped again. I was just making this happen, come on. I did four plates squats a week ago. Let's do five plates squats today. Like, I was running through the motions, I'm like, okay, let's do it five. But I managed to quail the ego liftor within and be okay. Because, I mean, if I go to Heaven, just gonna tweak my stuff, it sucks. But, that's what I can curb my inner need to lift a bunch of weight for the benefit of. One thing, not hurt myself, and just the overarching goals of longevity beyond. And I know when I start bulking up again, the weights will come along with it. Not that lifting a ton of weight is the point, but it is cool. Like, there's no getting around that. Doing a really heavy set of squats, having it feel good, not hurt yourself afterward, and knowing that you stimulated your quads enough to induce growth in a bulking phase is a pretty awesome situation to be in. So, I can weigh a little while before I get back into it. But, what else is there to say, and I'm gonna, should have a morning weight update tomorrow. I haven't been tracking my weight every day, just because every day isn't really like feasible. Because I might be a little, or might have a little more water or food in my stomach for the night before, or for whatever reason, everything might have cleared out of my system a little bit more, so then I'm like a pound lighter than normal. It's, there's some variability too. But, one little tip I can say for sure is if you're weighing yourself, there's pretty much only one time that I would recommend it to get an actual, like, reasonably accurate representation of how much you actually weigh. And that is gonna be in the morning, in the nude, after you've gone to the bathroom, and before you've drank anything. I just had a group of guys that this gym get into a real fancy, basically a weight debate, because one of the guys was telling them, Dude, I weighed 210 at my scale at home, and then he came to the gym, and he stepped on the scale, and he was 190. Or maybe it was some kind of huge disparity like that. Now that I think is just some of these scales were off, but, like, I really am not joking. If you weigh yourself with shoes and clothes and everything else, I mean, that's an extra four or five pounds, maybe, that isn't really your body weight. And if you weigh yourself anytime after you've started eating, your weight could be pretty crazy different. I mean, if I were to weigh myself in the morning, empty stomach versus later on of the day after I've eaten some food and drank it's on a water, I could weigh 10 more pounds over the course of just a couple of hours. That's not 10 pounds of fat or muscle, it's just food and water, you know. So if you want to real accurate, like, trackable time to weigh yourself, it's gonna be right in the morning, after the bathroom, before breakfast. I actually look at that data over time and think, okay, well, now I'm starting to see some reasonably accurate trends because day by day, your weight's gonna fluctuate anyway. You know, you're gonna be going up and down two or three pounds. Let's say, maybe one little craze in the night before, gave yourself a refeed, be it planned or unplanned. Dude, you just jumped three pounds. Or maybe one day, your little, you felt a little sick or something, you didn't eat enough food, you just didn't drink enough water, whatever. You might drop five pounds. You know, so don't stress about your day by day weight. What you should be more concerned with is your week by week, you know, by weekly, weight checkings. Because if you're not seeing any changes over the course of, like, weeks, then that's an indication of a problem. And that's telling you, or it should be at least, like, okay. My weight isn't changing. I'm exactly the same weight that I was two weeks ago, and I've been trying to die it down. I'm not getting any leaner, so, you know, that's an indication that whatever it is that you're doing is not enough. Which doesn't sound very fun, but it's just sometimes that's an nature of it. So, don't think that is a bad thing. You know, a lot of people can get very discouraged by not seeing the scale drop or not seeing the scale go up, if they're in a bullpen phase. But I don't see it that way. You know, it's just simply an objective indicator of whether what the routine that you're doing in the calories that you're eating and everything else is enough. So, it makes it pretty simple. If I'm not losing a poundish a week, and that's my cue, holy crap, Sam. You get to start up in the cardio, or it might be time to drop your calories by, you know, a hundred or even two hundred. All right, little things like that. And it's really that simple. Now, it's not that easy, but it is that simple, you know. So, it's, like I said in the car on the way here, it's really just a eating enough food to reach whatever your goal is, or not eating as much food as you would potentially like to. Like, I'm kind of feeling right now. I was, I was just talking to somebody who had just finished a dieting phase, and he was basically, he didn't mean to do it. But he was kind of rubbin' in my face as I do it. Once you don't with this diet bro, the food tastes four times as good, and I'm like, okay. Don't tell me that right now. Don't tell me that as I'm going home to my big, tougher, where full of ground beef with, like, just barbecue sauce. And that's like my treat for the night. But that's okay. The fact that it's hard means it's, uh, means it's valuable. Okay, so I think that's all I gotta say there for the post-lift action. Ideally, or not ideally, but I predict that the freak factor will continue to increase. And now all I have to do is manifest that prediction into a tangible reality by tracking all my calories into my macro tracker, avoiding Ben and Jerry's and Krispy Creme and Cinematos Crunchy and all costs, which so far has been manageable, but you know, who's to say it's time that begins to pass. So we all just have to see. But I can guarantee you this. I will keep you updated. So I will see you for what I hope to be, the freakiest chess pump yet. Maybe not the freakiest ever. I have been leaner than this before, so I'm still working on getting in a new territory. But we're getting close to leanest ever. And then soon enough, I'll be able to say, I'm beyond the leanest ever been. And that would become my new peak. But until then, I was just to see you tomorrow.

There we go. Alright, so planned for this reasonably early chest day. It's only 136. It's to fill my chest, left peg, right peg, and potentially some dealt action with as much blood as a humanly possible for me today. How I'm going to go about that? We'll just have to see. I can guarantee that there is going to be some plate loaded pressing action. There's a lot of the gyms that have been going to don't have this particular machine. We've got this gym does have, and it hasn't been coming here for a little while. So I can tell I've been doing a lot of cable-based pressing combined with like, you know, smith or barbell, but yeah. For today, making a little bit of a further trip so I can go to a gym that has a bit more machine pressing available. And sometimes it isn't given take like that. Like personally, I'm a pretty big fan of having multiple gym memberships. We're not just because each gym has different stuff that is kind of the main reason why I'm coming here today, but it's just nice. You know, it's a different place. It changes it up. And this might just be me, but sometimes the same gym gets a little bit more honest. But it's really to each their own. And it's playing a fitness still doing that free three month summer thing. Just wait for that to come around and try it out and see how you like it. But you know, that's the plan. And then I need to curb a mighty go, strength wise, and not lift too heavy. That's something that I've been pretty good about with quads, like I haven't been doing any insane sets of like, you know, smith swad and like press or anything. I've had it back off and touched. But I got to do the same thing with chest two. So I don't want to see any four plate action going around to keep it moderate. Because what am I trying to do here? You know, I'm not building any new tissue. All the stimulus that have given myself in the gym today. And for these next few months while I'm dieting down, it's not to completely destroy everything that I've got access to. It's just to totally reset my system, you know, or I know what it was at recent resistance. It's to stimulate whatever muscle of already built up and maintain it. You know, I don't need to completely thrashed my chest nor should I simply because I don't have the necessary recovery, right? Food and sleep, mainly food in this case. That's one thing that's really being restricted. So this is the time when I would be much more concerned about the idea of overdoing it, right? Overtreem because in a roundabout way, you could say that if I go too heavy and I start doing too much weight based stuff that I'm not really ready for, then I'd be overtreem. I think a better explanation for that isn't necessarily overtreening. More so, it's going to be along the lines of under recovery. Because if you're eating in a bulking caloric intake, you can go pretty nuts on the regular in the gym and be able to come back from it and do it again. But in a deficit, especially damn near a 2000 calorie intake deficit, I get to be a little bit more methodical with this training, much more stimulation rather than an eye-election. But, I mean, no point in appointing a loot, a loot, a looting to it, any further? How about we just get started with whatever movement number one that's available? Let's not get too crazy. Mimnits of thrichlates. Mimnits. Mimnits. Ah, one or two more. Holy crap. This might be the first lift I'm really feeling that that was the last one. Oh, my god. One more of these. Maybe you dropped it. And then this will fly. Oh, my god. One more of these. Maybe you dropped it. And then this will fly. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, that's enough. Oh, my god. Let's move on. Let's get a straight set of pep deck going. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. Oh, yeah. Oh, one more. And then I think finishing with that flat chest muscle is perfect. Oh, my god. Oh, my god. Just got to double trouble both the other chest presses. I was going to grab her occupied. It's pretty good too. Don't. Let's do it. Sit here. Do you have feels? If I'm fully pumped, I'll follow. And if we go move on, it's something else. That's good. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh my god. Oh. Oh. Huh. You give them to the skies. Let's see one more. How did you feel? Really good today. Usually I give a ton of burnt doubts here. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh my god. Oh. Let's go pull it down. Just complete. Okay. There we go. Exposure at a freaky level. I think there's nothing else to discuss. Hard sets of a variety of styles. Some more brutish. Some more squeezing isolation focused in others. Overall, I'd say I ended up doing a pretty damn freaky pop. If I do say so myself. But let's just let it, you know, do it on top. Oh my gosh. Oh my god. Holy crap. You can just stand in here. Maybe not lightheaded, but I can tell it. Built up some pretty silly itch you need. So for you, let's go to the car. For me, I'm going to camp out on the cardio bike for a little bit longer. But this is a pretty good step in the right direction, especially right around here. Like these real grainy looking lines. That's what I really live in before. I can now I want to do one more of a like most mustier to look at. Oh my god. Yeah, for you, let's go to the car for me. Got a little more cardio to do. That was what I would call a good lift. Kind of dense. Definitely felt some calorie deficit induced fatigue. But in no way, do I want that to come off as a complete? Not only just because it's like this is just part of the deal. You know, even for the calorie deficit, if I want to get extra lean, it's just the nature of course. But if you really like dwell and you just focus on the downsides of things, then how can you ever expect to make anything freaking cool happen? You know, so two guys can come into the gym. They've only eaten a thousand calories so far. They're feeding for some grub. You know, I'm not going to let's be real. It would probably feel pretty good to have like a quick, like gas station stop and get a bunch of cookies or whatever kind of sweets like that. Like that's certainly a force sort of rising up from my belly. It means mainly right now. But my brain is telling myself rightfully so. That's not conducive of what your goals are, right? I was about to say suck it up. Maybe not suck it up to per se. But it's like, you know, if you want to do something, even if it's hard, sometimes you really do just have to stick with it. Because if you don't, then guess what? The results are lack thereof. We'll show themselves regardless. So it's like, oh man, I should really be, I should really try to get in shape this year. You know, I've been meaning to do it. It's that statement. It's very powerful. There's a very strong and vast amount of potential behind that statement. But it's got to be actualized. It's got to be taken into reality by way of just consistent action. And it's not glamorous. It's not fun. It's not really exciting every day to make sure you're in a deficit. Every day to make sure you're doing a half hour cardio. Or if you're trying to get extra crazy and hour cardio in the morning. And then 30 minutes of cardio after your workout. Like, it's, that's not really the fun part because it's pretty uncomfortable. And the results that you're aiming for are going to take weeks to, you know, make themselves a lot of money. You know, make themselves a parent. But those, that time is going to pass anyway. Right? So think about it like this. We'd rather look back in the last four months or three months or even just a few weeks. And be able to say to yourself, yeah, we're hard. I've been locked in. How you? Or man. Can't believe I finished the battle pass in three days. Nice. You know, and a contrary to popular belief. Those two things can go hand-in-hand. You know, the fitness isn't supposed to, um, it's not supposed to make your life revolve around it. It's just supposed to add to it, you know? So, and, I'd like to say, add to it. No, add to it. So it's like, I'm taking the too far. Anybody who's the serious gym rat like bodybuilder, S kind of guy, they're making the gym their thing. And sometimes they have to add this little disclaimer. Like, I don't think everybody should take it that far. I think everybody should have a thing that they really dive into. And if that thing ends up being like fitness or working out, then that's totally cool. But everybody should be working out at least a bit. I mean, it's, uh, we all know it too. You know, this year, everybody in their mom is going to be talking about, oh, man. Uncle Jeff, he said he was going to start lifting again. Just like he said last year. Just like he said the year before that. Like, it's going to be a topic of conversation, you know. And even if it's not brought up, like, I'm not even joking. Like, there's no hint of anything here. And like, I'm not trying to dog and anybody specifically either. But if you've got a bit of a better grasping control over your general fitness, I feel like you're just coming at basically every situation in life with a little bit more of an advantage. So, I mean, that's why you're never going to hear me stop talking about the calories and the mac rows and the training and making sure you're well hydrated and well slept. Because it doesn't just have to do with, like, your physicality and like, how you get to walk around and like, how good you look or anything. But the rest, the diet, the hydration. If those things are all in place, just going about life is so much nicer. You know, if you don't get enough sleep, odds are you're going to be more irritable. You're going to have less fun doing your day just because you're, like, residually stressed from, you know, getting four hours of sleep on average per night. Same thing if all you, if all you drink is like, you know, some kind of Starbucks, something or other, and then a Coke zero for lunch, and maybe another one for dinner or, you know, and the problem isn't the fact that it's a diet soda. The problem is you only drink like 750 milliliters of water for the entire day, or I guess what would that be in courts? A court? I don't know. I get, I'm, when it comes to liquids, so much more metric minded. But, you know, the problem isn't that you had a diet soda. The problem is you drink less than a liter of water for an entire day. It's not enough. So if you've got all those things in place, just everything that you do, you'll be able to enjoy more. So, you know, I can hear me stop talking about that for, well, forever. But, either way, planned for today's post-workout meal. I can guarantee that there will be some, what will there be? There'll be some ground beef. I just got a bunch of ground turkey. I'm probably going to cook that once my ground beef stores have been depleted. Because what I've been doing is I just cook about five pounds worth at once in a big pot. You know, low, slow, just let it kind of simmer until it's browned. Strain off the fat, poured into a bowl with like three paper, three layers of paper towels on the bottom. Three on top. Give it a good, smoosh, to kind of squeeze out some of the extra fat. But, yeah, I need to get a bit more control over that. Because I'm not exactly sure how much fat is in each ounce of that ground beef. Because it's going to vary based on like the butcher and the amount of everything. Like, I've even seen some comments saying the guys were there, you know, behind the scenes, somehow or another. And they've got a good understanding of like, yeah, that body, body. Yeah, that lean, like percentage of the ground beef is kind of just an estimate. Like, it can vary pretty vastly. So that's where I think if I want to, you know, make sure I've got as complete a grasp over my calorie intake as possible. I got to switch to some more lean, dedicated protein sources. Cartons of egg whites are absolutely perfect because they have a negligible amount of fat, like less than a gram. So I know that I'm not getting extra calories in that I haven't taken account of. And I think the lean turkey, like the 99% ground turkey, will be able to do the same thing for me. Plus, it's not as like, I mean, not to swear or chill. But it's not as trash as the deli-turk. Like, don't worry, I'm aware that the deli-turk is probably not as awesome as the ground turkey. And now that I say that makes me curious, is the ground turkey even better. Because when the ground turkey just be at like a few steps before, well, either way, I want to make sure that I don't let any stray calories into my system that I haven't taken account of. Because if I do, I'm screwed. The whole point of tracking everything and making sure I do all this cardio and training and weigh myself is I want to make sure that every day I'm eating this much. And I'm eating this many calories and I'm burning this many calories. And this little gap right here, it's a deficit, right? So if I'm in a 300 or something calorie deficit, then what that means is every day I'm going to be burning about a tenth-ish of a pound of body fat. Somebody corrected me the comments before, so I think I forget the real number. But the basic just is if you eat 2500 calories a day and you stay the same weight. Or if you go online and you look up maintenance calorie calculator, you plug in your height, your weight, your activity level, your age, all sorts of everything. It gives you a good estimate of how many calories your body is burning every day. So let's say your 19 male, 5.10, 100 at a pounds, 12% body fat. You get some abs, you get some bicep veins. You work at 6 days a week, so you write like 6 times a week, vigorous exercise, enter. And it's going to come out with, let's just say, 2700 calories. So what that would mean is if you eat 2700 calories per day, you're going to stay the same weight. Now, I mean, you might main game muscle slowly over time. I'm not against main gaming, but what I'm trying to get at is if that guy specifically wants to lose about, you know, let's say a pound of body fat per week, assuming that a pound of body fat is worth 3000 calories, which might be wrong, just some just saying, you know, for the sake of this little analogy, then that would mean that every day of that week, he has to be in about a 400 calorie deficit. That would add up to that 3000 calorie limit. So every day, if he ate 2300 calories, he should lose about that much weight per week, because that deficit will add up. So if every day I'm in a 300 calorie deficit, after 100 days, I will have been essentially in a 30,000, yeah, a 30,000 calorie deficit, which if a pound of body fat is worth 3000 calories, that would put me at 10 pounds lost. So if it was 2500, then I would look at it. But that's the just, making sure that every day you burn this much, and you only eat this much. And as much value as there is in some of the fasting, like all the literature of like, well, you know, if you do fast it high intensity, cardio, interval training, you actually burn 14% more body fat than if you do, look, there's total value to that, and I bet these studies are freaking cutting edge, but there really is no getting around. You have to eat less calories than you burn every day. And it really can be as simple as that. Now obviously there's a lot of tips and tricks to make sure you eat protein, you focus meals, so my fluff kind of foods, a lot of vegetables. Like every time I make eggs now, I add about half a bag of like a pre-chop salad, and you do it so that once the eggs are fully cooked, they have a little bit more body to them. And I feel more full because I physically just eat more food at the cost of only like six grams of carbs, and the vegetables. But that really all, that's, that really all it is. That's really all there is to it. At the most boiled down level, obviously it's very detailed thing to really lock into or routine like that because you got to take a new count. You're on a situation what you can stick to, the kind of foods that you like, foods that don't agree with you. I mean, not to, not to get too personal here, but if we're talking about dieting, I mean it's worth mentioning, there are these little like flavored tuna packets, where it's just an unsealed thing, like an aluminum, whatever container. And there was one that I just loved, it was like a honey barbecue. It was like three grams of carbs, two grams of fat, like 14 grams of protein per pouch. And it tasted awesome. I've, I've made videos about it before, like way back in the archive, I'm sitting at a post-work at Meoward Brots, low carb bun to put some of those tuna packets on it. But for whatever reason, it just completely turns my stomach upside down in backwards if you don't say it. So it's like that food specifically, does not agree with me. And that's something that you can only find out from, you know, practice it, this kind of stuff. You know, so it's, you're not going to hear me stop talking about it, because that's where I feel a lot of platos that can be broken through. Whether you're a power lifter, regular kind of bodybuilder, you're just trying to go on a solid fat loss, like journey progression, then, I mean, if you're not looking into the calorie side of things and the dieting side of things, then, you know, you're trying to play chess without half your characters, you know, without half your pieces. And they're right there, but it does take a little while to get used to learning the gist. So if I have one idea, if I have one like, that's the word, well, idea that I get somehow in depth, into all lifters across the world, tomorrow, just like, what was it like, the three body problem where everybody like heard the same thing? But either way, if I could take one idea and it's still into the minds of all lifters, it would be trying to put, not even try, put a lot of value over your calorie intake. And then, you know, do it for a few months and just see what happens, you know, no pressure. But I think that's all I got to say there. I am going to sleep like a baby, I can guarantee it. I'm all, I get it actually probably fight off taking a nap because if I took a two hour nap right now, I am going to have some trouble going to sleep later tonight. But either way, I'm going to recover from this workout, continue my, what's the word, light policies, fat loss, and then just keep this shit going. So, I would say tomorrow for what I hope to be my vanniest backpump yet. I love that I can say that, as much as I love being bulked up, being lean is pretty cool too. So, I get the best of both worlds with the bulk of the cutting. So, I'll see you tomorrow.

Alright, so today, today is a rough one. And the reason I say that is because across the nation or at least any Christmas celebrating places, a lot of gyms are going to be closed with no consideration for the gym rats who are still going to work out on Christmas. So the reason I say that, that means there's going to be a lot of unplanned hand and potentially unnecessary rest days, which I've got nothing wrong with a rest day. Frankly, I'm planning on taking one here pretty soon myself. But what I don't love is just taking them arbitrarily. I mean, what's the, oh, that's somehow spent virginity. But it's like, look, I'm not saying you are like not giving it 100% if you're not going to work out on Christmas or I knew you're so any time other else, whatever. But you wouldn't hurt. So if you've got a gym that's 24 hour access or anything like that, hopefully you can make use of it. So that's how I'm a little spoiled. I get some special access for tonight. But either way, I wouldn't stress doing that. Make a few gyms closed. Don't feel too bad. Like I've had a lot of lifts that were shut down, just due to whatever. I probably the worst one. Once this is like a pretty bad snowstorm. I've had a couple snowstorm stories, generally, but this is a while ago back when I was in school. Everything was shut down. Like roads, school, all classes, all work, everything. And I called the head and the plan of fitness that was 15 miles over. They said they were open. So in my mind, I'm like, yep, let's make my way over there. Now, of course, I was, I don't want to say almost crash or anything. But it was pretty slick. There was no cruise in the 30 miles an hour down the road. Like this was like, if you were going 20, you were probably going too quick kind of a situation. Like a real snow emergency. And I get there and they had shut down shop. It was progressively getting more and more snowy. So they decided to call it, shut it down. And of course, there's no way to tell because if you call it, you know, nobody answers, but there's no, they don't post out on their Facebook or their Instagram or anything. So it's kind of just like up to you. But either way, I go over there, totally closed. Luckily enough, there was another gym just a couple miles down the road. That's 24 hours. And there. Well, they didn't let me in per se. It was daytime. So the doors were just kind of open. So I had legs that day, I walked in, checking out and go up a couple of guys who were warming up. I say, did you guys check in or make his members here? And then they tell me, no man, I'm the same boat as you. We just showed up because the people who were supposed to be working, they didn't maybe want to show up. But either way, all that's to say, you know, one lift isn't in the hardship. But when that one, what's one lift is going to hurt? Mentality starts to take a little bit too much hole and starts to become a repetitive thing. Then it's no longer, well, one lift won't hurt. If you say that a lot, then the statement becomes false. Now it's like, dude, you know, 30 lift won't hurt. A few weeks off won't hurt. You know, come on, bro. You've been dieting for a year, always dieting. And I never see anything good. Well, let's go ahead beat ups right now. I could probably no holds bar just going nuts eat about 8,000 calories in a day. If I was thinking to myself, okay, I just want to go totally nuts anything I want to eat. Let's just eat it. Who cares about what my goals are? I'm hungry. Let's only try to, like, please my stomach and everything else related to it. And if that were the case, yeah, let me tell you something. That would not be good in a dieting context. That would, oh my goodness. I mean, that could, that's four days from the calories. Oh, that's four days with my calorie intake. That I could probably just slam by letting loose. So all that's to say is the one day won't hurt mentality. I think is inherently flawed. I was going on about this a couple of days ago. Or maybe he's yesterday and the drive back to the gym. But yeah, one lift won't hurt if that statement was true. Like taking a couple of days off here and there, you're not scheduling whatever. Like don't stress. But when that becomes a habitual thing, you can go from locked in the locked out pretty damn quick. And in a dieting context, oh, context, context. You could completely undo two weeks of good work with a diet in one day of a crazy refute surplus. Like just go on this cheat day. It's not, and that's where the long term delay gratification side of it comes because you know, one day a dieting is kind of as uncomfortable as it's going to get. And it's not even a noticeable change. Like I don't look in the mirror one day to the next or even every couple of days to the next and think to myself, wow, I'm so much leaner than it was before. Like when I look at the changes from like month to month or two months, it's pretty drastic. Like I always see all the, like all the sand edits and stuff. And there's clips from the end of this last bulking phase to now. And that is a, that is a pretty noticeable. All different in leanness, but you know, it's been almost three months of like straight dieting without really any hiccups at all. So it's going to take a little while. All that is, so all that's to say, try to put some more value on like two month, even three month long terms to start to see progress. Because anything short of that, I mean, you're just not going to get the return on the investment that you're aiming for. For anybody who's a bit more short-sighted and needs like an instant like, okay, I want to be this like damn it. It's not going to happen with that. But if you can get used to just day and day out, work out this time, add cardio this time, start getting the new macros before you know it. Like I love saying this a lot of the time is going to pass anyway. There's no stopping that. So six months later, the guy who's locked in for the versus the guy who's not, it can be pretty drastic, especially in a fat loss context, you know, really locking into a deficit, even just starting the gym at all versus nine can be pretty substantial in terms of the changes that you can make. Even just half a year. So if that's anything that you guys are thinking about for going to the next year, I mean, before you know what it's going to be July, it'll be like that. And I can say that with certain TV is I'm kind of just thinking back to a couple of times like last year or even like years ago when I thought that exact thing in myself, like this time, you know, I feel like it was just three years ago or just four years ago. It's like the time is going to pass. Now you have the control of either being able to look back and think, all right, did I kill it or what's a good word and what's a good phrase that could rhyme with that? Did I kill it or did I, did I shrill it? I don't know either way, fast forward six months, the guy who's locked in is going to be able to look back and think, wow, I'm going to wait a different spot than I was before. Yippee, that's a pretty cool thing to be able to say. It's definitely the minority, the majority of people, well, they probably won't even start a new age resolution, they'll just say they're going to do it. But if you're here, we, we already know what we're doing, right? We get the gist. So I think no more chatin. Let's just go get this back pump started. So I've got three options for the most part. I've got pull downs, pullovers and rows. And for back, that's pretty much it. I mean, you got dead lifts, but not really a deadlift or in general. And also, dieting down probably not your best bet. I mean, my hamstrings are probably still beyond fire from legs to days. So the dead lifting, hip-hinging back focused stuff, that's off the table. So I have a habit of starting with a lot of pull downs. So I think the spirit of changing things up, let's start with some single arm pullovers. And I like the one arm more, it's just, I can just feel it better. Like if I have a rope right here, then something about like, you missed pullover movement with both arms at once. I feel like I kind of run into myself, you know, whereas if I have one arm, I'm going to move it like facing away from the cable. I just feel like I can squeeze my lats way harder if you maybe catch my drift. But let's do five on either side, repeat until cooked. And then probably do that a couple more times. Less side first. And this is a moderate weight for sure. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Oh my gosh. Yeah, I want to more those. Yeah, let's get my last skill. Your choice for set number one, or movement for one rather. No. No. No. It's jam. Oh my gosh. Oh, my gosh. Let's move on. Awesome. Two sets as a let. Let's get some shoulder width grip neutral pull ups. So the fact that I'm dieted down and I'm a little bit lighter, this is actually a reason that's set. And one thing that I've definitely noticed is I'm doing some of these reps quick, like fast, rapid style sets. I think half a reason I'm doing that is because my endurance is much lower on a set by set basis than when I'm bolt. It's almost like a hard quick set is easier than a slow long one. Plus definitely feels like it's working. Yeah. We got that's here. Give it a few. Here we go. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh my gosh. One more douse. Oh, goodness. Oh. Oh. Dude. Oh my gosh. Let's move on to something real focused. Last mighty be over coach after four in a row. Seat of some kind. This is Benchewl do perfectly. How about yay far from a floor height cable. And then two de-handles. So the stack, especially some of these like cable fly stacks, not the craziest thing in the world. So do a set of these rows, especially with two arms or once. But the fact that it's a little lighter means I really want to feel my shoulders. Feel like they're trying to wrap around my spine and touch behind me. Same with my shoulder blades and my elbows. But probably elbows is the easiest to imagine. But either way, this would even be more squeeze focused. Yeah. You know. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh yeah. One more. I'm going to make these some kind of pies reps. So in the beginning one I'm strong. Half or yep. Stop. Then finish the second part of the rep. And it's not magically more stimulating. But it just kind of helps me really focus on the squeeze. This really helped me feel my biceps on dumbbell curls. Instead of just feeling like I'm pulling my hands. Doing some rest spas reps or some, I guess you'd say half paws reps helps me with that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I got a plan. One more set should be all that's necessary. So I'll explain that set exactly one second. So nasty reps exactly the same as the last set and the C-dero. And then jump over here to this pull down, which at 100 or so pounds should be enough weights. Oh, I can have a let's see 130. The point of this is enough weights to feel it squeeze and burn. But you know, not so much weight that I started using my traps or my my forms and my biceps to lift it. Because I'm not doing a full time pull that I'm doing just back. So this should let my whole traps to last get fully pumped. Then we can find some freaky lighting and see how we're looking. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I got a few. Yeah. Oh, that's enough. Let's see how we're looking. There we go. All right. The rare natural lighting posing. Usually I come into the gym so late there's no, there's not even any natural lighting to enjoy. But luckily enough it's just bright enough to get some going. So let's see how we're looking. We'd have fully pumped back. See you later. Oh. Oh. Oh, yeah. Oh, my gosh. All right. Well, fully pumped. I feel like I'm getting reasonably freaky honestly. That's sort of a shot right there when you're a little bit of extra zoom in action. So we're definitely getting leaner, but I'm getting a couple of comments where some of you're like, Oh, you're so ready right now. Let's just say I wish. No, show ready is a few levels freaky here than this, which I guess you just make me even more excited because that means I'm even leaner. That's at the cost of still no more treats for the wild. Would you like to take it? But I'll be lying to you if I said it was like absolutely effortless. What do you do way? Back done? I got a little bit of cardio to do. Let's get the car. There we go. All right. 30 minutes complete. It wasn't even that bad. Like with the cardio, I'm not going to lie to you. I'm not going to sit here and tell you cardio is the most fun activity in the freaking planet. That would simply just not be true. But I'm not going to under or over. It's the word. Overestimated. It's difficult to eat either. I mean, it's not the hardest thing. It just kind of takes a while. I saw somebody comment and the comment was a little sleazy. The guy who was basically like, you know, cardio isn't even that hard. It's boring. Well, that's sort of the part that makes it hard. You know, the fact that you have to just sit there and pedal and do it. You know, so, well, to a to a to rabbits running around there. That's fun. But yeah, I mean, it's not the most exciting thing in the world. You sit there. You're pedaling time slows like the theory of relativity. I'm talking Einstein's style. I'm sure he must have had a side, probably a side theory. At least if he was in the fitness where he would say, time appears to pass it about 40% normal speed, whilst sitting on a cardio bike, which he's probably about right. But luckily enough, we've got this, right? The most exciting, interesting, brain-stimulating thing on the freaking planet, which can be a bit too much sometimes. Obviously, you know, he and that's what's been on your phone 24-7. But for a little time like that, I mean, that is the perfect time to sit around and just straight plane your phone and watch some shows or stuff. Because that's all you're trying to do really pass the time. You know, so I can guarantee that 80% of us are spending easily two hours a day at least completely wasted just sitting on our phone doing nothing. And I am not an exception that is for sure. So if I'm already getting spent sometimes just sitting on my phone doing nothing else, why not pedal man? And that's where having a cardio bike at home is pretty cool. I'm thinking about getting one. I don't have so much space at the apartment. So it's like, I don't really want a cardio bike to be the center of the linearum. That might be a little much. But I do have this little, like, little kind of apartment gym. It's right there. So it does make doing the cardio kind of easy having that stuff right out right next to it. So that's where I would recommend. I guess it's a little bit late. This would be, you know, a delayed Christmas gift to you to yourself or two somebody that you might know. But there's a million pieces of cardio equipment all over like Craigslist and everything else. So if you notice somebody with a truck or like your car with a, you know, some room space in the back. A cardio bike at the house that needs to, you know, it plugs in. It's the same as the ones in the gym. It might not be as tough or whatever, but still solid. That's only like probably a hundred or maybe 200 bucks away. So, you know, it's like that is definitely going to save you some time. And just having it there, I think that helps. So I usually end up going to the gym anyway for the cardio. But that's kind of because I sort of just like the environment, but any time I'm going to rush having the cardio equipment at home has been a freaking life safer. So that's where I would, I mean, I'm sure you probably have a treadmill sitting in your, in your basement or if you've moved out in your parents basement, which is now just kind of holding stuff. I mean, I've got a, in my parents basement, we've still got the treadmill and it's covered in boxes now. It's just not getting any use. So even though it might feel like a little much having the cardio bike at the house is pretty nice. That actually, I've been looking into some of the ones where it's like just the pedal apparatus. And then you can sit on your own seat or whatever. Like imagine having that under my desk and then you could just sit there and pedal. But I probably won't, won't my office chair to get like drenched in sweat. And none of them look good. Like those ones are like, like I'm scanning the Amazon, like 300 bucks and I think it looks really cheap. So there's, there's kind of go, not any getting around the size component of it. But the at home cardio bike, that is definitely a freaking hack. And then I guess, kind of playing into the same theme as when you're driving to the gym. Haven't some equipment at home. Definitely nice because you don't have to go anywhere. And more so it's, you don't have any excuses not to use it because it's right free in there in front of you. You know, so just something to think about. If you've got some spare space or you guess you can put it outside, might get a little cold though. I don't know if I'm going to do cardio in the sub 10 degree weather that we're going to get in the next couple of weeks. But either way, that puts me in about 1,300 calories. So far consumed. I've got about 100 grams of protein left and about 40 ish grams of carbs. So I'm going to try my damn does not to exceed that, which I don't think you'll have much trouble with, but still. It's definitely something I've got to be very conscious about at all times. Because if I wasn't being completely OCD and tracking every single macro and calorie that I'm eating, I wouldn't get the dieting results that I'm aiming for. Like there really is no getting around the fact that you have to be on it. With the training, you can train a little bit more casually, like do a three times a week for a while if you're extra busy here. Like you can tone back on the training and you still see some results. Like you're not going to be totally screwed or anything. But with a dieting, like if your end goal is fat loss, there really is no getting around the fact that you have to be tracking the stuff. Every meal. Because if you don't, then spare calories add up and they add up so quick. It's not even funny. Like I can't even, it's kind of hard to explain it, but it's maybe not explained, but it's not something you usually think about. Because right now I'm tracking everything. Every time I eat some like cubed steak that I made in the suvi and have like sitting in the Tupperware, I'm weighing out the amount that I just ate or I'm staying with the ground beef and same with the loaf at mannings. Like if you've got to weigh it all out and make sure I don't. Because if I don't, then let's say I'm eating 2,100 calories right now. And I have to keep at or below and very rarely I might below that limit to continue getting leaner. So if I don't track a couple of squirts to catch up, if I don't track a couple dollops of barbecue sauce, or maybe I open the pantry. Oh, I don't know if they're called. You know the orange like peanut butter crackers like that come in packs like for kids lunches. I really like those. I have a few sitting in the cupboard if I ever want one. But if I were to open the pantry and think, oh, I might want to have one of these. I have four put it back. You didn't even think about it. I don't feel full. I barely ate anything. But let's say I do that even just four times in one day. That could be 150 calories every time. Maybe not with the ketchup, I believe the barbecue sauce. But you know, even the craziest thing is the like general consensus of like what healthy food is or isn't. Even always freaking accurate men. Would you think that like ranch and carrots is a healthy snack? Would you think that like peanut butter and celery is a healthy snack? I would argue. Yes. And it's not like it's bad for you. That's not an upset. But it's like if I'm trying to get leaner, just eating foods that are, you know, can put in the envelope of like healthy. It's not going to work because they still have a ton of freaking calories, man. I mean, I can have 500 calories probably without even thinking about it. If I took a tub of peanut butter and sort of dip in celery sticks into it for like five minutes. Like five sticks of celery with some peanut butter scooped on it, that could, I mean, if I'm really eating a lot, that could be 800 calories. That's almost half the calories. I even half the eat or get to eat per day and just one second, you know? So what I'm trying to emphasize is like if you're not on it, then it's like leaving a plate of, it's like leaving a dinner plate out and your dog is sitting right there looking at it. If you don't want them to get that plate, if you don't want to eat your food, you've gotta be watching. Because the second you turn around, boom! Dinner gone. So, or in my case, Rocky, actually all three of the cats are there bad. They will take food off my plate if I leave it there. Which I guess is nice because it makes me keep the kitchen clean. Like I can't leave food out, but still. It's like you gotta be watching this stuff a hundred percent of the time. And that's not like an exaggeration. Like I don't want to make that sound like you gotta be on your shit 24-7 grind. Like that's not what I'm trying to get at. It's just a matter of fact that if whatever goal you have that is related to your calorie intake, then you just have to be on it, man. So, that's why I really push the calorie tracker and like count your macros and everything. Having that app open at all times, like, it just lets you get a grasp of just how much food you're really eating. And I'm not even saying that you have to, or that it's a good idea. It's a start, like, full-bore, macrotracking, crazy, huge deficit, or crazy huge bulk at a nowhere. Because then it's too much. Like you're trying to add away to many variables. But I really can't stress the value of just having a macrotracker. And then for a few days, I'm not even saying weeks just for a few days. Try as like just a challenge for yourself to see how much food you're really eating. Like 80% of the food that reading anyway has a macrotracker on it, or a nutrition facts on the back. Flip it over. Okay, I just had this bag of cool ranch Doritos. 10 grams of fat, 24 grams of carbs, 2 grams of protein. Put it in the oven. And just for the day, I guess for the day would be the first step. Just really see how much food you ate that day. And odds are, after just one day of doing that, day two will feel much easier. Day three will feel much easier. Before you know it, you're a damn macrotracker at heart. You know? So I can't get over it. Because if I wasn't doing that, if I wasn't limiting my calories, I wouldn't be getting leaner. I'd just stay the same size, which is another wrongly that. If that were my goal, but I'm trying to trim body fat. So that's the only way I know how to do it. Right? Make sure I burn more fuel than I consume so that my body has to break into its reserves. A.K.A. right? The little bit of blood in between skin and heart core beef. And I want that layer to be as thin as possible, so I can look as freaky as possible. Now, if I were dieting purely in between bulks, like I usually do, then I'd probably be almost over. Like, I'm leaning enough to the point where I would be comfortable starting a new bulk. And I feel like my appetite's kind of reset, like I'm back to baseline. But that's not the end goal of this dieting phase. We're taking it a couple levels further. So tomorrow I have gotten an arm day. Probably arms in a little bit of shoulders. Half just because, I don't, it's shoulders that much. They're kind of developed over-developed compared to my arms, so I don't feel like I'm really missing out too bad. But especially right now, I mean, I'm not building any new muscle. So, me as well, pump that some, pump that some lateral raises and face bowls. I've got a lot of blood flowing and see how they look extra inflated. And then paired with a freaky arm pump too. That'll be pretty cool. But either way, I'm headed to Christmas Eve dinner. So, one last little note here, Mary Freak and Liftless. I will see you tomorrow for what I hope to be. The freakyest arm day yet.

There we go. Christmas, well I guess Christmas is still going on today's Christmas, but Christmas is essentially over and the cherry on top is happening as we speak or yes as I speak with tonight's Christmas Arm Day or should I say Christmas Arm Pump with potential for a little bit of shoulder action as well. Listen, arms first, maybe it's such a shoulders after just to get a little bit extra pumps. But morning weight has been kind of bouncing around. Two days ago was 234 yesterday was 236. Now I do not think that I've suddenly gained like two pounds of body fat or muscle or anything. That's part of the day by day fluctuation of like the amount of food I've still gotten. Like how much water I drink is. I can day by day don't stress. Like if you wake up a pound heavier than you were the day before, you didn't just gain a pound or lose a pound. It takes a little bit of extrapolation and, well, there would be interpolation. To really show that kind of pattern. But getting close, I predict that I will see a 230 morning weight within the next three weeks. That'll be a good little milestone for me. I can't remember the last time I was in the end of the 220s. It's been quite a while, but that would be good. There's a few pounds closer to legit diced and that just decent lean. So I think I was just talking to somebody about this when I was doing cardio. The freak factor is a little bit stingy. Like sometimes losing 10 pounds doesn't suddenly make you 10 pounds lean or purely by eye. What I mean by that is like when I dropped from 270 to 260, which only took like two weeks or a weekend and a half, if that, as soon as I stopped like really fueling up, bulking diet to even just maintenance, I do start to get much lighter pretty quick. But going from 270 to 260 visually, not the biggest change. And then 260 to 250, even then still kind of negligible. Like noticeable, but nothing too wild. Because a lot of that was also intramuscular, like carbs of water too. So it kind of, that stuff is just going to come and go. But going from 250 to 240, that was a big 10 pounds. That was a very noticeable jump in leanness. And now from 240 to 235, it's almost gotten the other way. So I mean, I'm getting the touch, just simply, smaller is not the word. But there's like a, all I'm trying to say is by the time I'm at 230 morning weight, I'm going to be pretty excited about just how that's going to look. That's really how I'm trying to say there. Advenes are becoming more and more apparent. And I already know when my postwork at meal is going to be tonight because I don't have room for anything else. I've got 50 grams of protein left for my daily intake. And if I don't want to go over that daily intake or my daily allotment, which I do not, then that's what I get eaten. So where's that going to come from? I mean, we'll just see later. But that's going to be a tub of, or not a tub more of a cart, of just straight egg whites, nonstick pan, no oil, no nothing. And then I'll do some mustard on top. I get a lot of flack for the mustard on the egg whites. Personally, I don't really see the problem. Tastes decent. I mean, the smell like it's supposed to taste awesome anyway. But I don't have a lot of choices because I'm not a huge hot sauce fan, but you're not just going to douse everything in red hot or, like, sarachia. Actually, probably definitely not sarachia, isn't there sugar in that? Orbs more importantly? Well, even if there's not whatever. But all I'm trying to get out is like, the egg whites are, they're a base. You know, you can kind of add anything you want to. Like barbecue sauce, love it, catch up. Don't really mind it. You know, it's whatever. Salsa. Very good. Salt and pepper. Classic kind of plain. You know, man. But the mustard, I don't mind. I probably would love, well, I probably love any other meal, right? But that's where I'm kind of sort of fighting two desires. And the one that wins, obviously the one that's going to come out on top and manifest in the reality. So one, I want to get leaner. I want to stick to my calorie goals. And like in a more kind of abstract way, like I want to step up to the challenge of doing myself. You know, like this dieting, like getting this lean on this consistent of a time frame, which is going to be total, like getting into the four, five-ish month range of calorie restriction. Like, I mean, I don't want to let myself down. You know, because if I start just going ham and I, like, suddenly completely quit this diet and set out screw, and I'm going back to Bolton. And, you know, it's like I just gave up, right? But more so on, like a day by day, it's like, I'm challenging myself. To do this, the fact that it's hard is what makes it cool. And I kind of like reroute any, maybe negative thoughts or self, really self negotiating, self sabotaging thoughts back into height. And the more you can do that, the better. But obviously I've got this one side, which is the one I want to win. I want to diet. I want to get leaner. I want to do what I set out to do. And it's going to come with the cost of your last meal is a bowl of egg whites with nothing. I mean, with like a little bit of zero calorie sauce, not the most like appetizing thing ever. And frankly, if I were to reach into the pantry and pull out a bunch of like the low carb, like protein cookies that I have, which sometimes I try to, like, fit into the daily calorie, a lot of sort of to get my treat for the day. But that's not like you're going above my calories. I still hit my numbers. It probably be, it feel pretty good to just have five of those at once, go to bed with the full stomach and think, well, nice. So that's the other side. That's the opposing thoughts in my mind, which are trying to creep in. And that's what you get a fight against. So my one tip I've got to anybody who's dieting down right now, idle hands are the what's a good little twist I can put on. idle hands are the calories play thing. And if you're just sitting around doing just nothing, just chilling, whatever, the likelihood that you start feeling a little bit hungry. And you think, well, what's one scoop of ice cream go hurt? What's one spoon full of peanut butter going to hurt? What's a couple handfuls of cheese that's going to hurt? I guess what? It's going to hurt a lot. That is going to completely wreck your dieting goals. And it depends on the guy. Because if you're just trying to stay relatively lean, then you don't have to stress about this sort of shit. Like if you're trying to just main gain, eat when you're hungry, make sure you get your protein in, train hard. You're good. Frankly, that's a pretty nice state to be in, at least comfortability wise. But dieting down fat loss wise, you want to be leaner next week than you were right now. And there's no getting around the fact that you have to make sure your calorie intake is only reaching a certain level. And if you exceed it, which on a, like, we've all heard of a refeed day that doesn't completely kill a diet. What I mean is if you exceed it on average, like if you're goal for the next two months was you have to eat 2,400 calories. And that will give you a rate of fat loss of a pound a week or whatever. Like, you know, look up maintenance calorie calculator, plug in on your info. It'll give you a good estimate. But let's say you've got a certain number. That's your average intake where if you ate that calorie amount on average for a two-month period, you lose five pounds. You lose 10 pounds. You know, depends on how steep that deficit is. So if your average calorie intake is actually per day, 500 calories above that, 400 calories above that, even only zero, or no, one of us ate zero. Like, 100 calories above that, then it's not going to work. You know, suddenly you're not getting the power you need. Like you can't just plug a 240 volt plug in a 120 volt socket. It's not going to work. You have to have the right set up for the sort of stuff. So if you're really getting into the dieting, I can't stress enough. If you can get a good grasp of tracking everything, things will become so much clearer. And the clearer and more objective you can look at a problem, the easier is going to be to come up with a solution. So whether you're the type of guy who needs to have every meal prepped, like five or two, just upper-wares per day, you have one at eight, you have one at noon, you have one at two, you have one at four, you have one at maybe eight again there, just whatever kind of time frame you have in for. And that's how you do it. Then do it like that. You know, if you're like me and you're a little bit more, maybe intuitive with it where it's like, you know, plan a meal around noon,ish, make sure it's around like 600 calories, like this much grams of protein, this much whatever. Then go about it like that. Right? The meals for later do it, do like a little bit of intermittent fasting, or you only eat during a window of like three o'clock in the evening to whenever you go to bed, like it's easier for you to just wait until later in the day to start eating. Like there's a lot of different kind of tricks about it. And I can't, that's where like real day by day, they're not real day by day, but like real tips and a good grasp of like how to diet will come into play. But that doesn't change the fact that the basics of your calorie intake, your calories in calories out, it's sort of the great equalizer of all different types of diets. Right? Like be it a freaking atkins or a keto or whatever. Every diet that actually works involves the guy doing it, eating less calories every day than he's burning. And that's not like an argument at the point I'm saying that is a fact. So sort of just to give you an idea of how much I'm staying behind that calorie counting side of things. But in terms of today's lifts, pretty standard. The stakes are low with the lift right now because all I'm trying to do is, I mean, like, I'm trying to train hard of course. I'm not going to like just take it easy or anything. But my main goals on a day by day basis currently are priority number one, don't exceed my calorie intake that I have for the day and then go on number two, get a pump, do my cardio. Actually, the cardio is up there with number one. And then go home, rest, cover, don't hurt myself. That's also up there. So there's no need for me to try to curl the 80s or anything to wild. So my plan is to sort of see what seems like it's going to be the best move. I can definitely predict there'll be some rope extensions, some dumbbell curls, some cable curls, some pre-chairs, maybe some overhead type situations. And if I decide to show it through a shoulder to the end, lateral raises, maybe some rear delt work, that sort of thing. But really, I just need to get a solid arm pump, know that I push myself hard 30 minutes of cardio and see that by afterward. And then come home to my amazing incredible dinner to finish off the day. So that's the plan. Let's just make you happen. The nice thing about being so carb-deplated and like, no way to sugar coat it week is I don't have to warm up that much. I got to say I'm still doing fielder reps, but usually I'd have to get to like 65 or sometimes even 80 to really like feel like I'm totally pushing myself. But given how I carb-deplated I am, I only use 42 and a half. He was one of my trying to do here. And it's not wreck my freaking elbow attendance. I want to do an alternating set, five reps from the right, five on the left. And then really just repeat until, right now doesn't need a ton of weight. It still feels heavy, but it's just not as much force, you know what I'm saying. Like I would have been much more cautious thanching three plates in the 25. Fully bolt, early start should be. Then I would be doing like two plates in the 25 really died it down. Because it's like, even though you're physically weaker, your sort of system has already handled that much weight. All I'm saying is I only need as much weight as necessary. I'm my least egoish when it comes to the weight in a duck. One more like that. Same weight, same everything. All right, that was to get two starters. Let's switch it up. Let's switch it up from this single handle to something to be the terms. The rope will be good next. So in contrast that last set, which was weight within reason, very controllable. I want to get a little nasty with this one. This will be a full stack, kind of quick, pump it short or reps the failure. And then the next one dropped away by half. Do some full second, hold to the bottom. Real, slow, eccentric and squeeze or stretch rather. And then failed that way. Little too toned style. Oh, okay. Yeah. Let's drop it by half. Then this will be slow and squeezing. Very different, but the effect get more pumped. Pretty similar across the board. Okay. Ah. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, okay. That felt pretty good. Let's actually do one more of that style. And then move on to a new handle. Maybe we can hold new style. We'll see. There's Mark. He's got a, he's rehydrating. He's got a chest aid today. Well, we'll leave him do his own devices. He's like a Batman. Okay. All right. All right. I think of a solid handle, like a bar pushed in, is an order for the next set. A little bit of a heavier style as well. Full stack heavy push downs. And by heavy, moderately heavy, pump them out. And honestly, this could be the last set of triceps. I feel like I'll probably do one more, but let's just see how this one feels. No. No. No. Oh, my gosh. Yeah. Try his or her cuts. Let's go curl something. And just start with some 50 pound alternating double curls. Now I predict 15 reps minimum with a minimal swinging. At least that's over it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Holy crap. 50's and I have to put some feel that heavy. I'm going to swing a little more than this next one. But let's just run that back. That first set was actually kind of shit. I did not go it. So that just counts as a warm up. Nothing really matters. I'm still just going to do as many sets as necessary until I'm fully pumped. But yeah, I don't stay behind that first one. All right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's a little better. One more thing else. I think some preachers are in order machine preachers. Oh, okay. Oh, my gosh. Yeah. That's enough of that. I think that's a little bit more concentrated and controlled. One other tweak that I always do with this machine in particular. I like to sit side saddle. Something about this feels much more natural than like being straddle over here. Now with an easy bar preacher, it's a little different. But I just like doing the one arm like almost sideways. But second change is I throw a decayed along here as such. It just gives me some extra freedom of motion. Because for me, my wrist does not agree with this exact angle. I get a lot of forearm activation which sucks. And it also just kind of feels uncomfortable. So, worse to both worlds. At least sometimes I get some like improper activation, but at least it feels good. So let's get some more don't-tah-over planning go nuts in a controlled way. Ready! Do you think that's a bit that poor person which likes HP as well? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. No, I got okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, okay. One more. Little heavier. Oh. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, I got it. Oh, my gosh. Yeah. No. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. I think I've got a good plan for a bicep finisher. If they do not need much more time in the other. Let's go get it happening. Assuming that this ends up being a good set, this could very well be it. But 90 pound easy bar should be about right. And I don't mind if these reps give a little nasty, especially toward the end because I'm trying to fill my bicep right over the blood. Anyway possible and there's a much as possible. So frankly, I think if I sat here to set perfectly, control it with that, I simply wouldn't be as pumped, compared to doing one where I give myself some extra four strips at the cost of a little bit of swing, which is not an expensive cost. There we go. Hmm. Oh. Oh. Oh no. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. Fish. Oh. Two. Two. Two. Two. Two. Two. Two. Oh. That's not enough. Let's go, folks. Okay. So arms now complete. Decided that there will be no shoulder activity. So let's see how they're looking. And puffed up. And not absolutely destroyed to bits. Like, I even swed in that bad, which kind of sucks. I do like when the training's a little bit longer and like more nuts. But I mean, what do you do, man? It's just the nature of freaking dieting. Though this makes it a bit more motivated. Let's see how we're really looking here.. That's all. Oh, my goodness. Let's see what else am I missing. Oh, my gosh. That, in a nice classic. Oh, there we go. Well, Vaney, let me actually get a little bit of a breath-hole flex to really squeeze him out. Oh, my gosh. Oh, guys. Even though strength-wise, I don't miss this early feel a million percent. It looks wise. We're getting there. And that's kind of a given take, you know, and the card depleted slightly weaker performance in the gym, but, straight factor increases in ever increasing rate. So it's like, where do your values really lie? What do you do, way? I got to go camp out on the sea to bike for 30 minutes. Just playing my phone and scrolls to Xbox. And then I'll see you back in the car, back in the campsky. Oh, I am feeling it at this current moment. I believe that a rest day is an order quite soon. If not tomorrow, then the next day. Now, I'll still do cardio, but I'll just take the weight session off. I don't know, I guess I'll still do the two a day cardio, but I will take the weight session off. But I'll see. I'll see. I'm not sure if I want to save legs for two days from now or whatever. I'll just see how I feel tomorrow. But that's not like just a... I'll do that later. I do think that you need to kind of be on your toes when it comes to making decisions like that. Do you really need to rest day? Are you legitimately recovered or under recovered? Like, those things aren't just arbitrary. Those things aren't things that you can just purely predict. And it's like going to the grocery store when you're hungry. If you decide to take a rest day after you just did a hard workout, you might feel a little tired in the moment, then your decision-making is arguably being... Is the word I'm thinking about, arguably being influenced by your current state. So if you walk into the grocery store, full belly, I'd say you're probably not going to grab any snacks. At least no snacks that you didn't already plan on getting because you're not hungry. So if you plan on... If you say, I feel really good right now. I'll get a lot of energy. I'm going to go to the gym tomorrow. Nice. That's a pretty good feeling. But if you're a little more tired, it's not too hard to think, okay? Well, I'm kind of sleeping right now. I'll do it with the electricity. I'll just take a rest day and get my pee. And I'm not anti-rest day. And I want to get that perfectly clear. But I am anti-unnecessary rest day, which I think a reasonable percentage of rest days that you get taken are unnecessary. And purely driven by, I don't really feel like it today. And I'm not your dad, do whatever you want. But for the most part, there is some value to be able to go through a routine, even when you don't really feel completely ampt and excited about it. Because then you get to look back on it later and think, okay, well, I still did it. I still got after it, even if I didn't feel 100% of the time. And that's got a value that just can't really be measured. Because anybody can come into the gym and work out when you feel totally 100% motivated and hype and like you've got your buddies there. It's basically just an inviting circumstance on all fronts. But if you're not really feeling it, it's cold, you're tired, you stay up late, you're a little bit under-rested, you're in a bring-up water. That's where that little voice in the back of your head, that subconscious thought will emerge that says, oh, so you just come on, you don't need to work out right now. Just stay home, you're just staying home, man. You don't need to go, just chill. And that is a thought that you need to nip in the bud. I shut that shit down, ASAP. Because the more you listen to that, then it's like you're not even in control of your own goals and aspirations. You're just listening to the random thoughts that bubble up in your mind. And you've got conscious thoughts and unconscious thoughts. You know, conscious ones, those are things you can control. That's your actual voice in your mind. And the unconscious ones are just thoughts that pop up. I don't know where. You know? So, your long goes off. I don't want to wake up. Unconscious thought. Your real conscious thought is, alright, I gotta get up. Which one wins? At least if you actually want to wake up, you're conscious thought wins. So, with the training, with the dining, with the everything, as many unconscious thoughts that pop up with, like, I don't want to do it. I'm going to save it for later. And what's the point of this? You've got to shut that down, take control of it, and save yourself in a firm action-based approach I'm doing this. Regardless of feeling, regardless of circumstance, like, you know, try to get real stoic about it. Because the more that you can do that, and I'm not even talking, like, be it completely emotionless, whatever what I'm trying to say is, like, to do things that make you better comfortable, to do things that are a bit hard, that's the value. If it was easy, everybody would do it, and then it wouldn't be cool. So, that's all I'm getting out there. And I can really relate to that this morning. I woke up, got up, brushed my teeth, everything. It was getting ready to go to cardio, laid back down, slept another hour. That was quite cozy. And honestly, I didn't mind getting the extra sleep, because I probably needed a little bit more recovery. But, you know, it's made me like extra drowsy, because I had gone back to sleep. And I would not really feel like doing the hour cardio this morning. Like, my unconscious thoughts were really firing, dude. A full hour, that is nuts, man. Come on. It's Christmas. Go home. You have presents waiting for you. No. No, shut it down. Right? And those unconscious thoughts are not you. Right? Your actual, you know, identity and being is how you respond to. Right? And which one do you decide to empower, and which one do you decide to completely negate, and don't even give any values, dude. So, that's a pretty powerful thing, I feel. So, all that's just, I do what even if you don't feel like doing it. And you'll be better for it. But playing for tomorrow, I believe, oh, I do. I believe a leg day, but I guess we'll just have to see it. But today's arm day, I didn't really feel as though I had a skin splitting pump. Oh, dear spotted. I mean, I felt like pump's a little more normal, but the leaner you get, and especially the more carb depleted that I get, the less like, abrupt, the change of being pumped to unpumped up. Now, the vein factor was up. Like, even just sitting there doing those dumbbell curls on the mirror, like my forearms were starting to look extra freaky. So, I mean, within the next few weeks, that freak factor should increase to, literally, just new territory, which I'm really excited about. But, you know, the actual, like, subjective enjoyment of the lift, in terms of, like, just pure performance, not as crazy as fully pumped or fully bulked rather. But, that's the given take, right? The point of the dieting phase is not to stimulate and grow new tissue, it's to stimulate and maintain the tissue that have already built, and peel off the fat on the outside to reveal it. So, the more you can sort of put that purpose in your mind, the easier it'll get to accept like, okay, I'm not lifting as much as I was a few months ago when I was, you know, an extra 30, like almost 35 pounds of body weight. I was just looking at a couple pictures back, like, four months ago. A couple, not even, like, only a few months into that last bulking phase. Very different look. Now, of course, I'm, you know, carved a pleary right now, so. Ooh, a little bit on the flatter side, but still cool to see. So, all that's to say is, I am definitely feeling the fatteness of the diet, but nothing I can handle. Nothing I can't freaking handle. So, playing for tonight, your home, slams the mags, eat nothing else. Take my vitamins, drink it on a water, go straight to sleep, and then get ready for some early cardio tomorrow. So, I will, uh, I guess I'll just see you then. I'll probably post a, I'll make a little YouTube post about a Q&A to, uh, I'll give another one of those going. Probably, probably want to give it a specific theme, though. Sometimes they get a little bit too wide in terms of the ideas that you get discussed. And sometimes there's a bunch of just comments about, like, Genghis Khan or, like, the ris-lard. And as funny as those are, that really fitness related. So, I, uh, I'll go to see if it's my own first. Whatever that ends up being.

There we go. Alright, planned for this evening at 6.38 pm departure time is to in a most simplified form. Try to pump as much blood as physically possible into my quads and hamstrings. Maybe even just a touch of adductors afterward, but quads and hamstrings are definitely the stars of the show tonight. Hamstrings first followed like quads and quads is getting a bit more chill. You know, no more squan at this point. Just pierce quads, isolation, stimulation and what kind of set or movement do you think I'm going to do to do that? What is there a particular movement out there where the only muscle that really gets activated in any capacity is going to be a quads and essentially nothing else? Because I would say there it is and we all know that we are all reasonably acquainted with it the leg extension. So that's going to make up the majority of the leg or the the quad portion of this lift and I'm cool with that. I've got through pretty major time periods where legs was essentially all leg extensions, minimal squats which in a muscle gaining sort of approach actually trying to get bigger and build new tissue. Totally not the right way to do it. I definitely saw some extra quads simulation from increasing the amount of pressing that I was doing this last, uh, bulking phase, but now that I'm diding down, I've said this a few times before. I'm not trying to, you know, build any new tissue. All I'm trying to do is maintain all the muscle that I've already built underneath. So doing some leg extensions combined with probably some cc squat leg extension supersets as a finisher at the end, that will be extra perfect. And I put this like fancy pants glare filter on on the lens. I think it looks way too, it is way too much. It's kind of cool but it's, whatever, but that's the plan for tonight. Calorie intake so far about 1,300, I've only got about 600-ish left primarily from protein and 28 grams of that protein is going to come from a bag of no sugar added lean beef jerky that I've got sitting right here in my bag 28, uh, well it's about two servings so it's probably a little bit less. But 14 grams of protein zero grams of carbs because it's artificially sweet and do a something and then one and a half grams of fat just from the beef itself. And that one's honestly kind of a hack when I saw that at the store I had to sell it at a couple of bags of it. All right I've already gone through three today so I, uh, that might need to become a bit more of a staple. But in terms of actual meal prep, my fridge has some things that are ready to be cooked. I got about five pounds of top-round stakes that I'm going to cube up and sort of make it a bit of a, I forget the exact sort of style of food that ends up being, uh, well basically it's cubed up with seasoning left in the sous-visor. I've got a whole tub of uh, or a whole tub of where full of like cooked cubes steak that I can eat and then I've got about five pounds of ground turkey which my five pound ground beef bowl is just about empty so I will be a perfect replacement. A little bit leaner too. The ground beef catches itself at about 4% fat, you know 96% lean and even that might be a stretch but the, um, what does that mean? Oh yeah the turkey 99% lean. So I guess I'll just have to see because you can kind of taste it like you can tell if you're eating something rich or a little bit leaner. So usually if I really notice, don't ever meaning as a bit fatty, I'll have to back off on it. But I think the turkey we could and then one more note, it's happening. I, as soon as I open up my phone and start scrolling a few TikToks the first one, I think it's a screenshot about I guess I'll have to find it later. But it's like, it's a Naruto slideshow edit, it's not too late, bro. You can still lock in, make this shit happen, come on. You can get after it every year. I've been saying this forever. I've gone through two cycles of it now with the actual videos where every year the same guy say or this year I'm going to make this shit happen. Or we see the same post this year. You're not going to, you're not going to know me by the end of this year. I'm going to let it, I haven't seen any, um, like, fighting my demons posts yet. I guess they're still, uh, you know, that hasn't really come up, but I'm sure it will. Every year and it's a good thing that happens because there's, uh, there's a few seasons of urgency when it comes to fitness-based goals. Spring break, that's a pretty strong one. Everybody wants to get jacks so they can go to the beach and look good. Basic just summertime in general and New Year's. So if every time, you know, it's got like, uh, I don't know how many people basically try to get into it. There's a certain retention rate where every year there's new blood in the realm of uh, working out. Guys were accounting their macros and doing the now to hit the trifecta and add all three to your routine. That's rare. That does not happen a lot. I mean, most of the people who work out now don't track their macros. So it's, uh, it's not the easiest thing to world, but it's very simple to make yourself stick out compared to everybody else. Get that macro tracker, start clocking some hours of cardio. And before you know it, that difference in action or result in a difference in position. But takes a while for, you know, that result actually be seen. So I'm sure that six months from now, it'll feel like that compared to the second. So we'd rather go a little look back and think, or a kill this year. Or I'm starting to kill this year. Or think do some shit and start to do a lot of, and I'll screw it. I'll save for next year. I think one of those situations is a little bit cooler. But either way, no more jetting. Let's just go make this uh, make this like they happen. Typically hamstring starts with hamstring curls. So even though it was not my decision because the hamstring curls are taken, it's probably a good idea to change it up, start with some rdv else. Now even though this is the stack, since I'm fresh, this won't be the most difficult set, at least in terms of the first few reps. But that just means I'll be able to hold the squeeze and extra well. Oh my gosh. Two more though. That would be good. Oh yeah, okay. One more. And then let's jump onto a some kind of curl. Actually I like, let's do two more. Make it four sets of these rdv else. Yeah, one more. Yeah, another one. Sweet. I don't know why I haven't served Rdv else before. All right. Oh. If you set the light curl should be just about enough. Then move on to quads. After a few feeler reps, I cannot do the stack. I can do one more night later. And that's the plan. So if this set ends up being like crazy good, that'll be it. But I might do two. No. No way out of can. Let's finish up an alternating single, like set. So one more though. Then hands are done. Oh, my gosh. All right. Hands are cooked. Let's go camp on the leg extension for a little while. So not too heavy. Let's just start with a half warm-up half light squeezing set of just five reps alternating of extensions. And these, uh, the whole point of the set is to just get quite started. You know, I'm not going to get to the point of like complete pure muscle failure. If I do, good for me. But really my check marks that I want to cross off to be able to say, okay, that was a good opener. It's my quads. They're starting to feel fatigue. And they're starting to feel pumped. So as long as that's the case, or those are both the case, that I'm good. But get a get comfortable. We're going to be right around this area for quite a while. More pal. What am I ... you do for me ... I know ... OK I know wobble. Oh my gosh. Let's go up one more notch. But just repeat that in the same style. That exact same style. Oh my gosh. Oh Kim. Oh my god. No. No. No. No. No. Oh my god. Two more just like that. And then I'll introduce you some super set stuff. Oh, I guess. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh my gosh. One more. Same style. Last straight set. And then some CCC supersets. Wow. That's CCC super. You're an egg. Oh. Oh. No. No. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Let me set for our second for it. Exactly. I want X and X. X. Yes. So this will be some very controlled double leg set. Like a full second hole at the top and a slow eccentric. Not to failure, but just to fatigue. Then a flip around and do some slightly self assist with CCC squats hanging off the back of the leg extension. A few of these will be perfect. And the stretch in the CCC squats nuts hard to explain with just words. No. No. No. Oh. Oh. Oh my gosh. No. No. Oh. I think one or two more like that. Now we all would call it. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. No need for a leg extension pre exhaust on this. And honestly, this elliptical as the perfect height little knobs from your whole round to. So I want to do these reps as many as I can with no self assistance. And then the last few. Pull myself up, but let my quads take all the force on the way down. And in a good way, not like hurting your knee kind of way. No. No. No. No. No. Oh my gosh. Oh my crap. That's fine. So that was definitely a solid finisher with those scissy squads. And you know, those haven't really been in the routine for a little while. I think my niece have been like a little tender the last couple of months. But today, I mean, those felt perfect. So good for me. Now my leg is not to hurt him any further. But lightish leg extensions body weight. This is what's nothing out of the ordinary there in terms of tension through the knees. But, oh, let's see how quads are looking. Make sure it's focused here. There we go. Right about there. So I'm feeling gradually more and more separation and veins even unpopped. And like these, this separates me like mediocre. Lateral and tear drop, whatever. It's getting pretty noticeable, which is really cool for me to see. And then I'm getting much more of a sweep of my hamstring. Looking like it's hanging off the back of my leg instead of just kind of morphing into it. And half of that is also just to do with getting leaner is the less body that I have thickened up my skin on my knee joint. The smaller it's going to look. And then of course, as a get leaner, it doesn't really make my muscle belly any smaller. So they stay big. And my joints kind of start to shrink down. But let's, let's give a little breath, holy flex here. See if I can get the extra veins out. Oh my gosh. Oh, that's to make me lightheaded. And that's good. So the left quad is really the star of the show when it comes to this cross-stration lining. The right one's got some, but it's just not the same. So the right one actually has a bit more veins, like, especially in here. But the left one, well, actually veins are wise. Rather similar. But either way, quad's substantially cooked. Now all I gotta do is go home, slam some egg whites with a low calorie sauce. And then go to bed. And not be tempted by the treats I've gotten my pantry. Which I have a few. And if you catch a calories and eat them in moderation, you can have some treats. But if you really want to get lean and you actually want to stick to a legit calorie deficit, you do not have a room to cheat, not much. Just a touch, but not much. So let's go pack this stuff up, get the car. Okay. You know what I call that? I call that a status factory leg pump indeed. And I guess I can get into it in a little more detail now that I've kind of cooled off. Those Sissy squats have such an interesting feeling at the bottom. They're not joking. It's definitely different than even a really heavy squat or leg press. It's kind of like just its own thing. And I don't think that weighted Sissy squats are the answer. And that's just me. But doing hack squats where I have plates and then I'm doing the Sissy squats style, I think that's too much. That's just too much force through such an isolated movement. But body weight, very nice. And honestly, those would probably be pretty cool with a 40 pound weight vest on. But I don't really have access to one of those. And if I really want to get one specifically for me, so maybe that'll just be an idea to float around in my head. But yeah, that was good. And it's just like the leg extensions, especially are such an awesome contrast. Because on those sets of leg extensions, especially since I'm doing moderate weight, I wasn't really trying to launch the stack into the air or anything. I was feeling a lot of tear drop like that sort of big insertion right by your knee. Not so much like the outside of my quads. So it's a go back and forth between those two was really cool. Because I can feel the fibers on my like out of quiet really stretching. You know, it's like doing, I mean, it's almost like doing the tricep rope extensions, where you really go slow and get a full complete stretch at the bottom, rather than just bouncing around the top. So all that's to say is I think the leg extensions and those Sissy squats, are very nice complementary movements. Because the leg extension, very squeezing focused right on holding my legs up. That's the hard part. And then the Sissy squats complete stretch focus, where it's not hard to stand, but it is very hard to go down into a complete, oh yeah, it's not like a personal trainer, completely knee flexion based position. But yeah, those were nice. So that's going to, I mean, that's what quads are going to look like for a little while. No crazy force, no crazy leg press, that will basically be a good leg pump. It's a good quad activation, and then that's all. So if that's not your cup of tea, it's all right now. But that was good. So plan for tomorrow is chest. And I think I'm in for a treat with tomorrow's chest day. Morning weight update today, 233. And even just walking around, like I'm starting to feel pretty trim. And I've still got about six more pounds of body fat loss to go. That's kind of what I'm aiming for. You know, I still have, there's still like water and depletion and everything in peak week. The most part my goal is getting about 2 27 lean walking around fully hydrated. So that I'll be able to drop that extra 10 pounds of water in like sort of a depletion before getting all the oiled up. But at this rate, I'm just about on track, though it definitely feels slow. Slowed steady, but it started to feel pretty slow because I am really fighting the urge to just grow up. But that is the hard part. So it's every time I think about that, I try to tell myself, okay. It's supposed to be hard. That means it's good. Get real. Don't be a baby. Get grab a zero sugar gelocup and don't start just, you know, scarfing down peanut butter. That's kind of what I tell myself in my mind. So my kitchen is stocked right now. I've got basically everything I need in terms of my dieting tricks. Low carb tortillas, fat free or low fat powdered peanut butter, which when reconstituted with low sugar, I mean zero sugar, maple syrup. Absolutely awesome. Plus, when you combine that with the low carbs tortilla, the flour and the peanut proteins are kind of complimentary. So those actually sort of count as a complete protein. So I mean, I can have 40 grams of protein right there, sort of combined from two non-deticated protein sources. So, and then a bunch of organic, deli turkey. And I think you guys might actually be on something. When me and Mark went on our little Vegas trip, we stocked the hotel fridge with a bunch of regular deli turkey, like, you know, the Oscar Meyer, shitty brand, whatever. And eating a bunch of that from having only been eating like straight ground beef and eggs, I felt fun. I felt kind of weird. I felt freaking weird, more like, I don't think I've really been dropping too many F-bots. I mean, better than that. But I felt kind of off. So, yeah, I think, yeah, I don't like that. So, maybe I'm just extra sensitive to the scrappy food. Since all I've really been eating is pretty solid, healthy kind of whole foods. So, all the deli turkey I got was like the organic non-GMO, non-night trait, whatever. So I got a bunch of that. And then that would be perfect for some low-car tortilla, turkey sandwich wraps. And then just the standard egg whites was also that sort of thing. Actually, that's going to be the plan for tonight's meal, a bunch of egg whites and salsa that will do me pretty freaking well. So, really just ate more weeks of that. Yeah, but I'm cool with that. Actually, not ate more weeks when I'm saying it. Yeah, ate it. And then get back to bulking up. So, we've all set it. You know, it's, uh, I hear it all the time. It's like, dude, I'm going to start bulking up for real. I'm going to seriously lock in this bulking man or, I'm about to, I'm going to get shredded this summer. I'm going to get shredded this one. I'm going to, a lot of I'm going to. And now more than ever, especially end of the year, like I was saying in the car around the way here. A lot of those, like, you know, lock-in style TikToks, like the ideas are out there. They're floating around. The energy is apparent. But the amount of dudes who are actually going to take that energy, feed off of it, compress it to critical mass. Boom, I actually get the results that they want. Non-is-off. And I'm not, there's not one specific, um, like, trait or anything. That's keeping anybody specifically from locking themselves in, versus just doing the same shit day after day. But one thing that I think about that helps because I'm definitely big on, like, some of the, like, personal, like, psychology, like, thinking about why you think things. And, like, if something makes you really upset, try to understand, like, why you were upset and not just, you know, feel like, uh, basically uncontrollable to your own emotions. There's a, I think there's a lot of values in that. But, uh, I'm trying to force about to say. But, but one thing that I really do think about, at least every so often, like, I'm not thinking like this all the time. But, every so often, I think it does you get, is, like, are you ahead of, of today? Or, I guess, are you ahead of yesterday? Or, where you were a week ago, or two weeks ago? And it could be in any field, in any vector, in any, like, realm or specific point of progress, like, are you moving towards something? And, for me, since it's been locked into the bulk and up and cut and down for so long, no matter what my goal is at the time, I'm always headed toward something, which I think makes it really easy for me to kind of condense a lot of my, like, you know, energy into a physical outlet. Because in any given time during the year, I have a specific goal for that day, bulk up or cut and down, right, one of the other. But, if you don't have something like that, then I feel like you can be, well, that was good on there. Well, I feel like your days can get pretty aimless, you know, and what I mean by that is, like, the days are just going to pass. You know, they're going to blur into each other very quickly. And, you know, if you don't wake up and have something that you're excited to do, and that's like on your to do list, because you want to do it, then, you know, you're kind of just at the, the mercy of the universe, you know, like, it's kind of hard to explain. But, all that's to say is if you don't have something like that, where you can wake up in the morning excited about some portion of your day, and that you can go to bed and think to yourself, reflectively, like, okay, that was good. I feel good about what I did today. Then, I think you're missing out on a portion of your life that is, like, pretty powerful. And it doesn't have to be working out. Like, I think everybody should work out pretty consistently. Everybody should have a good grasp of, like, calories and what food actually does once it gets into your system. It just helps you, like, feel better in general to have a good grasp of that, like, in enough normal stuff, drinking of water, getting enough rest. Like, make sure you're circadian rhythm isn't, like, like, a, like, a dubstep, dubstep based drop-in terms of how wild it is. But, you know, everybody needs some kind of thing. And I think there's a barrier to entry because, you know, nobody wants to look weird. Like, nobody wants to, nobody wants to come off as, like, obsessive and really interested in something and passion. Because you can't really get to a point where, whatever you're doing is, like, a flex for quite a while. Like, if you knew somebody in high school who was, like, very artsy, always kind of sketchbooks, now things. Like, if they're still working on getting good at it, then, you know, all the effort isn't really being shown in the results that they're getting. Or, like, if you knew a high school man who was, like, just starting out. And they were, well, you could tell they were a beginner band. Sometimes that's kind of hard to, you know, feel good about if all of your sort of response towards what you're doing is kind of negative. So that's where you've got to have a little bit of an iron mind and not be so susceptible to any negative kind of external response to whatever you want to do. Because it's what you want to do. It's your life. It's your time that you could dispend doing, I mean, everybody's got a reasonable amount of free time per day. You can spend that doing whatever you want, you know, so I think that's the important part to think about. It's whatever you want. And the sooner you can get a good grasp on that, the better I feel. But, you know, I'm not your dad. I'm just a, just a lifter guy. So, playing for tonight, eat my ex-salsa meal. Go to bed early, wake up even earlier, and then get my hour of cardio at that. I, uh, sort of feel the hour of cardio for sure. These lifts are slightly more like not left, but maybe tiresome is a good word. And I'm not complaining, but I am making an observation that I can tell the energy levels are not the same as when I'm peak bolts. But that's just the major I get to lean. So, not stopping this train, and I will see you for tomorrow for what I hope to be. My freaky is just a yet. Exactly as predicted, 50 grams of protein worth of egg whites, a solid helping of a pre-chopped salad, which the point of that isn't the micro nutrients. I mean, you guys love telling me, say I'm more of the vegetables. There were no vegetables in this full day beating. Look, if you're eating a red meat and you take your multivitamin, I mean, I've simply got the proof. I don't have any deficiencies. But it does give the eggs much more body. So, you know, 50 grams of plain egg whites, not the most filling thing in the world. But 50 grams of protein worth of egg whites. But when you add some chopped salad, a little bit of fat free cheese on the top, plus some salsa in the middle, which I hope to be a very flippable omelet here. Then this should start, no kidding. Well, not exactly flippable. Either way, this is going to be pretty good, but I'm just going to have to scoop it onto the plate, damn. And even the rascal, well, he's on the opposite side of the spectrum. Now he's bulking up. He gets two tins of fancy feast. He was not a fan of the food canned food I was given them before, but he's scarfing this down. Do I leave this at the end of the video? Or just make this the start of tomorrow's? Now, we'll just leave it at the end. So, 50 grams of protein? Well, 50 grams of protein from the eggs, 25 grams of protein from the fat free cheese. That's five grams of carbs, one gram of fat from the fat free cheese. Because it says zero, but let's be real. There's probably still a little bit. So, that puts me at finishing macros, assuming this is all I eat. Which there's a strong potential I come back and sort of munch on some extra ground beef, so probably another 25 grams of protein. But my current intake so far, I'm going to be 13 grams of carbs, 41 grams of fats, 244 grams of protein. That is just about the limit. We're getting there. I'll actually do a little more protein. But meals like this are what most of my diet has been composed of. And that's bright zero is more than empty. It's been refilled with some electrolytes, sort of powders. But meals like this are kind of all up in grubmon on. You know, no treats. There's no crispy cream. There's no the emceitmentose crunch and whole milk and chocolate milk jugs in the fridge. And it's not because I'm suddenly thinking like, oh, he's fuzzing absolutely horrible for you. The problem is there's so packed with calories and so unfilling that it's just not conducive with what dieting even is. I get it's core component. I look at it in two ways. You got bulk in on this hand, dieting down on this hand. Now, bulking, I want to eat foods that have dense calories where I can eat like, you know, 800 calories per meal and be ready to eat that same meal again in two hours or, you know, two and a half hours, whatever. Like I want to eat a lot of food, but I don't want it to feel like I'm eating a lot of food, right? So I can keep ramping it up and push the envelope further over time. Diding down, complete, inverted opposite approach. I want to not eat a lot of food, but have it feel like I'm eating a lot of food. So that's the whole point of like the low-carter tears and, you know, adding in all the, like the lettuce makes in the egg whites and this also and everything else. It's essentially like filler, right? Like the calorie density of this meal is so much lower than a tub of bento jerrys. Like if I were to have a bento jerrys tub or like a bowl full of bento jerrys in here for the equivalent amount of calories, which let me just do the 300. I think this is like 450 calories right here. That wouldn't even be half of a tub of ice cream, even less. Only like a few spoonfuls or one big spoonful would be the same amount of calories as this whole meal. So not as flashy and certainly not hitting my taste buds in the same way. But this is gonna make me feel much more full for longer. And that's the name of the game. Because if I eat foods where I'm hungry 30 minutes after I just ate a meal, then in my eyes I just failed. That was a failure of a meal in a dieting context. Because as much as it is a mental thing of like, okay, I better, I gotta be serious, I gotta hold myself accountable, I gotta not overshoot my calorie intake. That doesn't mean I have to torture myself. And what I'm trying to say there is there are tricks to make it easier. You know, I didn't have my first meal till like two o'clock this evening because it's not too hard for me to wait until later in the day and you know, like just drink electrolytes and water and everything until I basically like break my fast, you know, breakfast at two and then my eating window begins. So there's just little tricks like that. And eating simpler meals like this, like conventional bodybuilders, time meals, that's the trick. So I'm gonna sit here and enjoy this, go to bed, and then I've got a damn hour cardio in the morning, which if you're planning your phone, you got some classroom-y-all games, you're going crazy. It doesn't feel that long, but I guess that's easier for me to say because I've been doing it for a little while. But either way, I will actually see it for just tomorrow.

Back again, more like chest again, if we're being honest, but I have consumed my limit. So I'm gonna end up going over my a lot of calories tonight. Now over in protein, you know, I still need something before I go to bed. So I'll just have an extra 200 or so calories of egg whites with salsa, which I would not consider that to be like Holy crap, I went over my Atlantic. I had an extra 50 grams of protein. That is not the same as like having an extra, you know, a few hundred grams of carbs and fats from like, you know, sweets and everything else. But, oh yeah, crap, didn't weigh myself this morning. I guess we'll have another morning weight update tomorrow. Still not below the 230 mark, but definitely on track. So feel pretty good there. Had a bit of a nap after the cardio session this morning. So I feel pretty well rested, pretty well hydrated, pretty well fed. So now I'm gonna use all of those factors to make sure I get myself pretty well pumped. Now I was thinking about going to a gym a little bit further than this one, but I think I'll just keep it. I think I'll just keep it close because, well, just cuts. And that's one thing I've been doing with the cardio in the morning too, is sometimes I would think to myself that I like driving to the gym. Actually going there. Something about the, like, it's different from home. It just felt nicer to, how to know. But, I've been just doing cardio at the apartment gym. That's right there. So there is no drive apart from, like, basically less than a block from where I'm parked to the little apartment gym. And that's way better. Because it's saving me, like, basically an hour and a half a time. Because the two-day sessions with the cardio and the lift, I'm not gonna say it's easy. It's definitely a hard self, because now you're adding an extra commute to back and forth. Unless you want to, like, splice that in with your drives or work or anything else. So that's where having the cardio bike at home or an extreme proximity to home. I think that is the freaking move. So, you know, rather than, you know, leave it like six and get back at nine. You know, if I get up extra at a reasonable hour, you know, leave the door at seven. You get there in five minutes, sit down, be back, only an hour and a half later. Now, no sauna, which I do like the sauna, something about the, like, just the 15 minutes sweat off is kind of cool. But, I don't think it's absolutely necessary for every morning cardio session. So, I think if, well, actually I'm not sure, I'm pretty sure they closed the cool section at this gym early. So, maybe I can't do the sauna post lift. But, if it's open, maybe I'll stop down there after the 30 minutes cardio once chest is over. Because 30 minutes cardio on its own in the morning, there's no longer cut. I got a beefed up to an hour in the morning, and then 30 minutes after the lift. Now, legs are an exception. I'm not going to do cardio after legs. I guess I could do the, like, the hand pedaling machine. So, I don't end up like fatiguing my legs and any further. Because I think that would be a little bit much, but, you know, after chest after arms after back, After anything simple like that, I really do think you've got some energy in the tank to just sit in the cardio bike, you know. Now, that's where I would recommend, just try it. Next lift, just sit in the cardio bike. Don't even pick a time, don't pick a goal, don't give yourself any expectation. Just set it to difficulty 9, pedal 80 reps, 80 reps a minute, and just see what happens. That's my little tip. But, in terms of what I'm going to go about, or how I'm going to go about, getting a chest pump today. I mean, what do you think of it? I can definitely foresee some pressing, some flies, and some cable pressing slash flies. And, honestly, I think that's as complicated as I needed to be, because I get a movement where my pecks are loaded in the stretch position the most, like a heavy Smith bench like that. I get movements where I get a good stretch, and basically even amount of tension the whole way around, like a peck fly, or a dumbbell, maybe not a dumbbell fly as much. But, you know, cable fly is pecked at things like that. And then, I've got a movement where it's extra squeeze focus, like this is the hard part, and then I can kind of rest down here in the stretch position. And that's what it's like in a lot of cable press, you know, like on a barbell bench, you're not going to rest at the bottom. You're not going to try to catch your breath at the bottom. You're going to get a rep up to the top, lock out and since that's the easiest portion of the lift, that's where you're going to hold it for a second. And then, get ready for another one. But, something like a cable press, especially a converging cable press, the tension gets built up as the rep press. So, it's like the further your hands are away from your body, the more you have to squeeze your chest. So, this is the hard part up here. And then, if I ever take a second to breathe, I'm holding the weight down here where it's a lighter. But, I think those are basically the three general approaches to the chest movements. And some movements are, or some muscles are a bit easier than others. Right? I mean, hamstrings still complicated. Hamstring curls and RDLs, hip-hanging. Quads, you got leg extension and leg pressing. Be it a squat or leg press. Biceps. You basically just have curls, you know? And even when I do like the bicep bias, hold down, that's still just a curl. It's just kind of in a weird way. You know, like I'm curling down toward myself instead of, like, up toward my shoulder. But still a curl. Shoulders, side-ladderals, weird-dults. I mean, all there is to it is this. You can do it in different ways with different machines, but that's all that those muscles are doing. So, that's where I think having a good grasp of, like, your own anatomy can help you on these sets. Because if I am visualizing, like, how my bicep looks and where it ties into my forearm, and how it's going to feel when I'm angling in different ways, then it just helps me get a good grasp of, like, what's going on. You know, like, if somebody's real into cars, and they know everything about the motor and whatever else, and they've got a lot of experience with it, then it's so easy for them to, like, diagnose any kind of problem. Even just turning on an engine and hearing it, like, they have an idea for, okay, and a, oh, serpentine belt. When was last time you're placed in Manel, it was wiki. You know, they've got a sense for it, because in their mind, they can visualize exactly what's going on. So, that's going to help with your mind muscle connection. You know, I think that gets thrown around is just lifted jargon a lot, but in a more kind of, explained manner, like, I don't want to feel like I'm pushing with my hands. Like, I'm not pushing the weight away from me. I'm pulling my elbow across my body with my chest. And that results in a pushing force, but I'm not thinking about what's going on here. I'm trying to think about, oh, yes, you know. And let's be feeling my chest warm. Go harder. Make sure I actually, like, bring my chest to the Jit failure. And then the smarter I've been about my, my most connection with my backs, the better my chest constant. And that was, that was a moment when that happened. You know, I get better out of the over time with experience, but I still remember I was in my basement gym at home. In Client Bench looking myself right in the mirror. And as I'm doing a set, it was like, maybe one, any five, or something, it just clicked. And instead of pushing with my hands, I was pulling with my chest. Absolutely nuts. And it might sound kind of, kind of trivial to, like, just, like, oh, I felt my chest, but when you get that sort of realization, it does feel like a bit of a milestone. Like, I put that up there with, like, your first ab vein, your first, or your first bicep vein, your first, to 25 bench, like anything else like that. But 726, I'm gonna be home reasonably early. So the cardio in the morning will not be impeded. But no more talking. Let's go make this lift happen. I was feeling pretty strong. So few reps of a plate, and this is after a cable warm-up. A few reps of two plates, two reps of three plates. All right, I feel pretty good. Let's do three and a 25. Yes. One was fucking hard. I probably shouldn't even try to just step it through. But three feels good. Let's get this lift started. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Yeah. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. Yeah. Oh my god. Oh. Wanted to more. Maybe one. I feel strong, but that was hard. Oh, goodness. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. Yeah. Oh my god. Oh. Oh. Oh. Let's move on. Two of those is probably as much as I can hang on to. Oh, gosh. Good start them. So that's the heavy pressing. The tension set of things. Basically checked off the list. Not too little fly. Lucky, lucky me. It's pretty packing here. I feel like I had two cables for some of the front of body flies. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Holy crap. Let's do two fly. Five, seven, the next one. That was good though. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, my god. Let's go. Same set up. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. well and then just keep this grind up and day in day out in macro counten calorie hours clocking for cardio hours clocking pump we're getting rests doing and then just repeat you know and day by day not seeing real and same changes but week by week month by month I mean go back four months not even four months go back two and a half months and look what I looked like at the end of this last Bolting phase before this dieting phase started you know day by day there's nothing crazy but you know and just a two months span that's a pretty massive change or I guess you know almost a three months span by now but either way I'm sure I'll have some more insightful things to talk about in the coming days until then I'm just gonna get home shower off go to bed early and then get ready to start tomorrow a whole new day to get after it so I'll see you then

I have yet to watch a single Christmas movie this year. No peanuts, no grinch, no elf, no nothing. Maybe that'll maybe I'll start something like that during the post-back day cardio tonight. Who's to say, right? I mean, do not be fooled. Just because you have to do cardio, you know, sit there and let me actually pedal or whatever else. That doesn't mean you can't do other things, too. Depending on what machine you pick, I'm personally partial to pedal based machines. I seated by seated, kind of like a look to go sort of thing. Your hands are free. You can tool around on your phone, bust out a best-atural, game-boy advanced to give yourself some nostalgia from playing Super Mario Bros. 3. Do whatever the hell you want. Read a book. Mark just got me a copy of the first Dune for Christmas. I'm actually going to go, I'm going to read that thing, too. Because I just watched the newer Timothy Shalom A1 Dune and Dune 2. And now I'm going to have Dam Dunyak. Frankly, I am seeing a lot of the similarities and the inspiration behind a lot of Star Wars tropes. Because don't be fooled. Dune came first. So it's getting a resurgence nowadays. That's kind of nice though. I've had an, and this is unrelated to the lifting, but I've had enough, like, what, what, or I can't even, I can't even list all of the new Marvel movie names. Just too much, right? At least at least go back to some old school stuff in a new way. That's, like, we don't need any more sequels. That's usually what I end up thinking whenever I scroll through, like Netflix or anything else. But most of my meal, watching, or meal eating in cardio, doing videos so far that have been helping me pass the time, tons of Linus and Tick-Tips videos. I have just been going through all of them. Which I do every so often. I, I never knew more about GPUs and motherboards than I do whenever I'm on a Linus Tick-Tips craze. Which is, yeah, it was really crazy. When me and Mark went to Vegas to go to that power slap thing, I ran into fireworks this name. Ah, I can't remember. It was another one of the, like, the Tech YouTube guys. But I stopped and I was like, you know, just watching one of your PC-built tutorials, holy crap. I just want to see it in there. But on a more pressing note with tonight's back day, all these gyms are closed. It's, uh, I don't, I don't want to disclose the time. It's very late. I sort of spent today sleeping here. And I did my first cardio session kind of later. I, uh, I could tell I was feeling a little extra sleepy. So, and it said, they give myself a couple hours of sees. But now I'm kind of paying for it because I let my routine get off axis a little bit. But that's not going to stop a solid lift. So, still got access to cables, seated rope, pull down some dumbbells, mainly cables, and sort of the pull-up bar are going to be the stars of the show for tonight's back day. But you know, they need too much more, you know? I mean, as long as you can leverage something to have like a pulling towards your body, rowing action, a pulled down type situation, be it just like a pull-up. And maybe a pull over if you're feeling froggy, then that's it. I mean, I've had back days, I've had tons of back days back, uh, especially kind of peak COVID era. When all I had access to was the basement gym, rack, pull-up bar, one cable, and then some dumbbells. Some of the freakyest freaking back pumps in my life. I have a meaning to go back to my parents asking clean out that space, so I can actually lift down there again whenever I don't want to go to a public gym. But it's, uh, I think there's a certain fallacy that every workout has to be very complicated and have like 10 different movements and 10 different sets of every different movement, whereas like, you know, just don't need that much. Pull down or a pull down style movement and a row. Frankly, if I, if every back day I could only choose two movements and do like a few sets of rows to start and then finish with pull down, I would be perfectly fine with that because what is your back doing, man, you know, and apart from like scapular retraction or whatever else, it's pulling stuff. It's taking your arm from out here. You grab onto something and then you, bring your elbow towards your body until you can't any further. So be that from the top down and like a pull down from the bottom up and more of a shrugged row. It's really just pulling your elbow towards your torso from a variety of different angles. So I like boiling it down to a very simple thing like that. Like, what's a bicep curl? Bring your hand towards your shoulder. Like so. What's a chest press or a chest fly? It's not pushing anything through hands. It's pulling your elbow across your body. It's rotating your arm about your shoulder in this way where your chest is a thing pulling your forward. And I think there's a solid value to be able to visualize like the system of basically tension and whatever else that's going on in, you know, like your quads. What are you doing to leg extension? You don't just push the thing, your flexing your quads and pulling your knee upward. Like thinking about that, I feel almost, let's me put myself into whatever muscle I'm and just helps me feel it a little bit more. You know, because instead of just like doing a movement and then gradually feeling more fatigued over time, every rep, if I'm really visualizing like my lats pulling my elbows down toward my hips, then at the bottom of every rep of just a simple strip, our pull down, I can have a good momentary like burning squeeze at the bottom. And then it just adds to every rep, you know. And if every rep is just a little bit more intense, then overall, every set is going to be a little bit more intense. And then every workout is going to be a little bit more intense. And then every workout is going to be a bit more stimulating. And the chain of command just keeps following down the line. So all that's to say is whenever you do an arrow or a pull down or leg extension or whatever, really try to make sure that at the top of most of your reps. Now if I do a nasty set, it's a little bit different. But I mean for most normal working sets, like I really want to feel a good at the bottom of every one. And then, you know, as I get closer to failure, now you can only do a couple of partial reps. It's not so important. But by then, I'm not thinking about like the squeeze, I'm thinking okay. I'm just not even like thinking normal thoughts. But either way, I think within the hour, I will have a reasonably freaky back pump. Hopefully some new back veins, the likes of which we'll get to see during the post down. And then finish some more cardio. cardio is cardio is the theme of these last couple of days. Now that especially now that I'm past the hour mark, right now, I'm about the hour and a half mark. Because hour the morning and then 30 after the lifts, except for leg days. And it doesn't feel unbearable. Like it's actually still pretty feasible. So I'm sure within a couple of weeks that cardio is actually going to be increased even further, which it's starting to feel kind of crazy. But you had to do it you had to do. So I think no more talking about we just get in the gym and then I get this lift started. Let's start with some close grip pull bands. I usually don't do these, so in a spirit of changing things up, I want to start with something that I don't normally start with. Bye. No, my hands. Feel more ders any. far about? Oh my gosh. Oh, I'm gonna make this next one a drop set for sure. And I just remember the guy who's Jay's two cents. Dude, it's freaking tall. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh my gosh. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. Let's roast something now. That's a good three opening poll that sets. Common theme for this gym. But I really do like seated roast here instead of over there. And since I'm not really even going that heavy right now, this is cool. So I really want to feel like my shoulder blades are touching each other at the back. So it's almost like I want the back of my triceps, or I guess, what I'm right here, to feel like if they're being pulled all the way around as far as they can. I'm not just pulling it. That's sort of my mental cue to make sure I release squeeze at the top. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh my god. Two more goodness. These reps are going to be quick from the start. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. One more. Then the last set will be some kind of superset between a row and a pull over or a row and a pull down. And then I think that'll be it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, my goodness. I'm ready for a superset. I'm pretty sure. Let me just decide what I want it to be. Not totally sure yet. But I know it's going to involve some wide grip pullbacks. That's for sure. This one set might actually be it. Basically, it's wide as I can reach and weight that's light enough. At the bottom, I can really get a momentary squeeze. Like I was talking about the car. And if I decided to do one more set, I like to pull over. That's cool too. But I'm going to go about this set as if it's my last one. Trying to leave anything at the take. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think we're ready for the other step. There we go. All right. Backfully pumped. Let's see how the shirt, last spread looks. Which it should be reasonably freaky. But that's just a hypothesis. Let's get the raw data. Yeah, I think we get some Doritos action going on there. But through the shirt means nothing. I don't know why we're tank. They're both coming off again anyway. Yeah, we got right in the middle. Oh, I guess. Oh, my goodness. And don't worry, I am in fact practicing posing. Oh, just a bit trickier. Immediately right after a lift. But for you, I was seeing the car. I'm going to get quite acquainted with that seated bike right over Yonder. So let's fast forward 30 minutes. All right. Just out of the go a little extra crazy. 45 minutes difficulty 10. The machine says 400 calories. That's about freaking right. Now let's get in the car. Oh, my God. All right. So I just made a YouTube post. Q and A questions right now quick with a little picture of a real. I've got a we got a vest on. I'm like, but let's let's go for the top. So if you were up late enough to see it, then you get some luck on your side there. In Zark, Inzer, carry big off, Inzer, carry big off, 9 9 2 1. Why can't you eat only junk food if it fits your macros? I don't understand why healthy food is healthy. And that is a really good question. You actually got a, that was the first one. That's a freaking banger. So what it comes down to as far as I'm concerned is just lunged. You know, like for me, I don't have a lot of food. Right now. Like I'm trimming down and the calorie intake is noticeably low. So that means that I've only got 2,000 ish calories to eat for the entire day. Now that adds up to I think like 100 grams of carbs, 40, 50 of fats, and 250 grams of protein. So right now, all that protein is coming from ground beef. I've got like five pounds of cubed steaks season in the suvi that it, like it's a go home to take out, put a new big Tupperware eggs, ground turkey, like just straight protein sources, and then you know, it's kind of fancy about them. Like nothing fried, no fatty steaks or anything. So all the protein that's just coming from there, which is kind of where you should get your protein anyway. Like I don't, I don't really want to eat junk food protein. Like the protein should come from dedicated high quality protein sources. But when it comes to those 100 grams of carbs and 40 grams of fats, if I only ate 100 grams of carbs and 40 grams of fats for the entire day, worth of benageries, like I had a little half tub or a quarter tub of benageries, and I could eat that for my carbs and fats, and I only ate that much. Then the dieting phase would still work. I would still be in a calorie deficit and I'd still trim down. Now when it comes to getting like really lean like peeled, you might run into some trouble just because it's going to kind of throw off your blood sugar and whatever else in your insulin sensitivity. But for the most part, yeah, I would be able to do that. I would keep getting leaner. But the problem is it just wouldn't really work that way. Because 100 grams of carbs and 40 grams of fats from ice cream is not going to be very filling at all. Really, it will not be filling. So I'm just going to be hungrier, eating the junk food or like the treats like that. Then I would be if those 100 grams of carbs and 40 of fats came from like low carb tortillas, low fat free cheese, like low carb breads and just salads and like makes vegetables with all the food and everything else. Because that's just more filling, you know, in a bulking context, you know, I'm going to have some treats because those calories are what I'm aiming for. I need to eat in a calorie surplus. But if you've only got this many calories to work with, then I need to make this many calories count. So I need to eat foods that are more filling and are going to make me feel full so that I don't come back to the kitchen every 30 minutes, halfing to, you know, scathing around for some kind of snack or something just to try to curb my hunger. You know, so it's more so a problem of just what's more feasible and just doable on a day by day basis. So, you know, the treats, if I want them, I can fit them in, but I got to pay the price of now I'm going to be hungrier. In 30 minutes, then I would be if I had a bowl of, you know, eggs mixed with broccoli and cauliflower that I steamed in the microwave versus like, you know, a pack of ramen or something like that. But it's very good question. Let's see. Z3RA1R says, do you watch football and if so, who is your favorite team? I tune in, you know, I'll tune in. I'm not like a die-hart fan of anything particular, but obviously I'm going to root OSU if they're playing. Other than that, I don't really have too many affiliations, whichever team seems like they're in underdog sometimes they kind of lean towards them just because I love seeing an upset, but I haven't got that question yet, so that's a good one. How fast can you clear a whole rotisserie chicken asks Phil fan of 1-320? Well, you know, let's, are you talking straight on the bone off of the, like, the oven rack because that's going to be way too hot to eat? Let's assume it's cooled down to eatable temperature and how clean do I have to get it, you know, can I leave some scraps? Do you have to be, I mean, it wouldn't have to be surgically like bones on the end of it. I'd say, what's a full, what's the rotisserie chicken way? Is that about probably three pounds of, three pounds? Give me an hour and a half, I could guarantee I could get it down in an hour and a half. Hour would probably be pushing it, it might depend on how hungry I am, but I think I could totally do it, but the exact time frame, I'm not totally sure, I've just never eaten that much chicken at once. But I think I could, you could put me down for one at least, I could definitely put down a whole versusery. Moon one two two two two two two one, how many of the things of the other did you make tomorrow with the, like, thinking emoji? I, I think he might have missed tight. That's not really a, that's not really a real question. Oh, there we go. Now we got a ton of comments, I got some discounts through here. Let's, let's see what else to be done here. Are you a big fan of Rungicata, or no, Rungicata numerical methods? Are you more of an improved, youeler kind of guy? Asked Harry Truman M4R, dash M4R, rather. Uh, I feel like Rungicata, I don't remember that was kind of a while ago. I, I feel like I didn't love Uller's method, so I'm going to go with Rungicata, but I don't really, I don't really recall. Favorite anime right now? I don't know, man. I've, I've seen a ton, like I've got a list, you know, anybody that watches a ton of anime, they've all got a Google Doc, where they write down every show they've seen. I've, I've watched a lot of them, and nothing is really getting me going, you know, like I tune into one piece every so often just to see what's going on. But usually, I like the spoilers are enough to tell me how the story's going. You did catch me right after I had a bit of a thought, though. I was thinking of myself after I watched some kind of TikTok, whereas like if you could go back in time and erase your memory of a show that you watched, which one would it be? So that you could watch it again. And the first one that came to mind is Jojo. Right? One through six, haven't read part seven, haven't read part eight or nine. I might have to, just because I know how cool it is. And I'm part six was kind of unfortunate, you know, the show itself, the animation was not exactly there. Part five was nuts. Part six though. But I would have to say Jojo is probably up there as my favorite. Close tie with berserk, close tie with Naruto, close one pieces around there too. But it's apples and oranges, you know, each one has its own, I mean each one's its own story. I mean you can't judge something like that. You can say they're both good, but picking one over the other, you know, it's such a subjective thing. But I'd say those are kind of my favorites now. Favorite movie and why? A lot of media questions. The next one is one is a, oh, let's, one is the first show. That's a different kind of show. But Ryan 15 core 32, favorite movie and why? What is my favorite movie? Hmm. Favorite movie? I don't know. I just watched a bunch of the gangster movies. I think I finished Godfather. I don't know if I watched Godfather too. I loved, uh, what's the one where it's about the casino guy? I don't know. I just watched the big short, that was pretty good. I can pick a favorite. There's so many. Too many to remember. When is the first show? That's planned for February. That is the current plan that we're rolling with. But nothing's like specifically set yet. Once that's like locked in, that's when this series is going to change from like winter shredathon to like, you know, three weeks out, two weeks out, one day out. Like that sort of thing. But that's for, that's for a little while. The Brian channel, could you go back to the intro music you were using last year around this time? Nothing wrong with the new intro music. It just brings back memories. No, the, uh, every time I pick an intro song, it gets copyrighted. I need to, uh, I feel kind of weird having somebody commission it. I don't want to just like play around a garage, maybe come up with something. I feel like that'd be a little cooler. But that's, uh, that's soon. There's going to be another intro again. We're just going to know intro for a little bit. What's your favorite color? Ask Angel Policios 2271. I'm not totally sure, man. You know, I think, uh, I think what's your favorite colors kind of, uh, it's kind of a simple question. I think what's your favorite color combo is a little bit cooler. And I'd say I'm pretty partial to either a black and gray with a red or a blue kind of highlight. Like my, uh, like my computer, black background, but like sort of a blue highlight, that sort of thing. I like that kind of combo. Honestly, that's like, uh, it's basically just how I dress all the time. And if I got the gray pants or black gray, uh, like black pants black shoes, black hat, plain t-shirt, absolutely perfect. But probably some reds and blues are in there. Those are kind of the most prevalent for me. Bob, a duck bro. What are your thoughts on trying to maintain motivation and discipline to cut and stay lean, even when in college slash on vacation or drinking culture is so prevalent to have it fun. And that's a deep question. That's a deep one. And it's, it's kind of tricky, you know, because if you're the one guy who says he doesn't want to go out, then you kind of put yourself out there is the buzzkill, you know. So it's, you know, it might be tempting. I'm not saying just stay home all the time, but, you know, whatever you go out, just don't buy yourself a bunch of drinks and like get black out drunk. Apart from just like, it's own problems that that comes with lifting specifically. It's, it's not good for games. It's simply, uh, it's a performance de-hancer for games. Your mind, what's the phrase? Your, your muscular high-perchriffy is reduced by, I don't know, what percentage? A hundred if you're constantly getting seriously, like, splurge out of your mind on the regular. And then also, it's like, you know, it's, it's never been my thing. So it's easy for me to say that. But if it's hard for you to get away from that space, like if your friends are always going out, then, if they're the type where they're trying to force you into it and like make sure that you come along and do everything that they're doing. And you're expressed that you don't really want to. Then that might be a question of like, who are you hanging around? Right? And I'm not, like, I'm not your dad. But if you got five dudes who aren't locked in drinking other regular, what are the odds that if you're in that group, you're going to be the outlier? You know, so that's, that's not really for me to say, that's for you to say to you in kind of an internal sort of situation. But, you know, it's not like going out a couple of times every month is going to absolutely derail your fitness goals. But in the moment, it definitely will have an impact. So, you know, fast forward six months or look back six months. However, many times you went out, just add it up in your mind and think, okay, was that really even worth it? Like if I look back in every time I went out, like this is, this is me as, as you, if you're that guy, like, okay, today. Okay, if I could go back, I totally wouldn't have done that. And that's basically the gist of what getting smarter and like getting more wise is looking back and trying to stay something. And okay, yeah, I probably shouldn't do that next time. All right, perfect. It's nothing wrong with screwing up, but it's being able to look at it and think, okay, let's change something up for next time, you know. But that's, it's easy for me to say that because I've never really had to be in that position. Like I've been locked into the, like, everything working out bodybuilding wise since like mid high school. So the idea of me even like actually drinking is like it's always been comical, you know, so that's, that's it for you and that's it for you to think about yourself. But I'm not saying it's easy, but it is simple. Let's keep screwing up here. Lame soul. If I had to go back and do it all again, what would I tell my younger self? Well, I'd probably tell my, how young are we talking here? And we talking like 16 or we talking like 10. Because if it's 10, then I would have somehow convinced my dad to buy a bunch of Bitcoin way back when that would be a pretty big move. But if we're talking fitness related back 16 when I started, I, you know, I'm not, I'm not telling you. I've probably told myself, I don't need to do 25 sets of biceps in one workout and that eight good ones with suffice. But apart from that, I don't think there's really anything you'd want to say, you know, because any mistakes that I've made over the course of time, I've kind of learned from it. That's what's put me exactly where I'm at right now. And as much as you could look back at yourself and think, man, what the hell was I thinking? Or like, man, oh, it's, why would I even want to do that? Or just whatever. The only reason that you have that perspective now is because you got to look back and think, well, I was totally screwing up back then, but now I get it right. So as long as you get in smarter every time, then, you know, every time you mess up, every time you go through something, you just kind of come out of it a little bit stronger or smarter. So it's like, kind of a paradox because if you go back in time and change something, then who you are now is not totally different. Or you just like, not exist or like worst case scenario, you like turn into your own grandpa, it's, you know, But I would definitely tell myself, I don't need to do so much volume. I could have toned it down and focused more on set by set intensity. 7 9 3 5 asks, have you watched arcane season 1 or 2? Not a legal legend's fan, but arcane was awesome. I didn't watch season 1, I liked it. Season 2, I just haven't started it yet. I know I will. I see all of the, um, Oh crap, what's this name? Like the main dude, the Hex tech guy. Well, I see all those like TikTok edits, they look pretty cool. I'll probably watch that pretty soon. I like the first one. I think they did a really good job. ASPN asks, what other hobbies do you have outside of the gym? Not a ton. I don't know, see, that's kind of the biggest one. But I dabble. I dabble every so often. I'll grab, uh, get a Rubik's Cube set of my desk, sometimes I'll fidget around with that. I can, um, I think if, if I really got warmed up into it and I had like a good, uh, scramble, I can solve it about 30 seconds or so. You can put me down for under a minute for sure, but like, for under 45 seconds, I'd have to really be in the zone. Um, I, I got a, I got like a $100 square, stratic astric guitar in high school, and like I tried to start playing it a little bit, and then it just hung up on the wall. I brought that from my parents' house to my apartment, sometimes I mess around with it. I, uh, I tried it, and trying to see if I can learn that over time too. Not like crazy seriously, but just, you know, but other than that, the fitness is a lot of it, and I'm so, like, cool with that. Let's see what else we got here. What's your thoughts on the new Kendrick album, GNX, haven't heard it? It's probably good. Another hobby is except for the gym question by Adam the man. We kind of already got that one. Sidney Lauren Courtney asks, what's your new year's resolution? I don't really have a new year's resolution particularly. Definitely not one in mind, and I don't think I've ever really had one specifically. Stay locked in. I guess that's probably, uh, that's probably a good one. Swell Rickett's fan page one asks, how do I figure out my purpose? That's a reasonable question. That's a reasonable question. If I had to boil it down to what my purpose is, you know, in a very overarching context, I'd say I want to be able to look back at all the things that I've done later on down the line and think, I went for it. I made some shit happen nice, and then, you know, no I at least tried to do some crazy shit. But unlike a day by day process or context, I wake up and I'm excited to go do my cardio. I got a lift later in the evening, and then I go to bed thinking about the fact that I did that, and then I'm going to do it again tomorrow. So that's kind of my main thing. So I'd say just dabble around. You know, there's a good mix of circumstances when you find something you have a little bit of aptitude for that you like doing at least a little. And that you can do frequently, you know, so if you can find something, it's all these three criteria and just practice a lot. I, you know, hypothetically, that could just become a new thing, you know, but it's, it's really just like, what do you think it would be cool to do? And then if you, if something immediately comes to mind, I say, just go for it. Best case scenario, you find a new thing that you become freaking sweet at. Maybe become the next, you know, the next big woodworking, table manufacturer, the Midwest for like custom, whatever, or, you know, worst case scenario you think, man. That was stupid. I'm going to try something else. Either way, you're ahead of where you were before. So really just, you know, start going down to YouTube rabbit holes and find something to get into. Let's see who was right here. And just like I'm going to drive here, favorite Marvel character asks, mayste tasty 7611. Favorite Marvel character. Ironman's the first one that's really coming to mind. So I guess I probably have to pick Ironman. And that was, that's probably just because I watched a lot of those movies when I was younger too. But he's pretty cool. So I guess Ironman, have I watched a texture season one through four? I have. And I'm going to kind of extend your question. Have I watched the news seasons where like textures older and it's in the future? And like the texture origin? No. I have not dabbled. Because it's, that's funny. Some of these questions are exactly like what I was talking about in the car on the way here. It's like, you know, the show kind of served. It played it's course alright. You're beating the, you're not beating the dead horse, but you're kind of playing up the same thing. Sometimes I feel like shows can be overdone like that. You know, like if you've ever watched a texture, you would know. If you just watched, I think season one through four. And you skipped the finale. And that last episode, you could probably just end it there and be totally content. Sometimes dragon things out doesn't make it any better. But let's, let's keep scrolling around here. No, it's all 6667. Do you plan on doing any more vlogs and different types of content? Also, been here since day one. You can see my comment on your first video. It's a, you know, going to go ahead and screenshot that one. See if this guy's lying. But yeah, we're going to dabble. Going in next year, we're going to be dabbling into some new stuff. So just keep it. I have a little, a little different than the standard tripod lifts on the daily. But I'll keep those up. I've kind of been thinking like, okay, do I want to keep, should I keep making the daily workout videos? Should I make just like one week, should I back it off? And I wouldn't, like it wouldn't bother me. But a lot of you guys do like tuning in for the daily workouts. And it's not really too hard for me to bring you along with me. So I'm fine with it. And I'm sure I've probably developed a bit of a weird, like, parasocial me in the camera relationship where I get to really talk about my training a lot. I think it's kind of helped me because I get a lot of, like, putting thoughts into real words and like expressing like what I think about certain parts of my training. I really do think it's given me a lot of insight into how I can adjust my stuff. I mean, if you look at how I was working out even just a year ago, and then go back even further to like the first few months of videos, very different. So it's, I don't mind recording all the stuff. But yeah, well, we're going to dabble around a little bit. Let's see here. Why did you stop taking the Dextro Shakes X Juice 1070? I think those were a little crazy. Fifty hundred grams of sugar and 50 grams of protein straight to the dome. I think that might have been a little nuts. Now, bringing them back to like 25 grams, postwork out, just for, like, an instant sort of blood sugar, insulin spike. That's a little more legit. I was taking those a little bit too, a little bit too far. I was definitely stressing out my system. But that'll return just not as extreme. Rico slicer 126. Do you love me question mark? I'd say something, Rico. Well, you just met. You get a little early, get a little early for all that. Let's see here. We need a feats of strength video, or you just do NFL combat events, ask Salen and dial 837. Maybe we'll get that one day. We'll get to do some Sam stats. Not very soon, though. I would really feel like a champ if I hurt my knee or something doing something stupid right now, especially going into a dieting phase. We'll see if any athletic endeavors for a little bit later on down the line. I got so HL, what got you into lifting? So in high school, high school, middle school, high school, I was doing gymnastics. That was like a three hour day thing swinging around the bar, doing double backflips on the spring floor, that sort of stuff. And I was good, but I wasn't like college level good. I wasn't on that track. So I ended up quitting that in about the middle high school after my sophomore year. So we would work out a little. And sometimes we'd go to the weight room of the gym and like we do like regular strength training, like bench, dead lifts, like rows, things like that. So that kind of got me a little bit into it, but I'm not sure exactly. But what happened was once I quit doing that, I had now like a basically including the drive a four hour chunk of time after school, which is now empty. That wasn't doing that anymore. And that was four hours after school. And like five hours every Saturday in the morning, because it was like nine to noon or like nine to one with a 30 minute drive there, and a 30 minute drive back. So I had a big pocket of time, which I was being very physical, basically every day with, which is now gone. So the outlet of just Indiana Jones swapping that for the working out. Kind of just that out of being perfect. Apart from that, I can tell you exactly what got me so locked into it. I must have just liked it. That maybe do some more self-analysation to get any deeper than that. Sell C6191, how to gain more weight. And I tell you something, now you got a trick for that. Eat more food. Now it's a little more complicated. Do your weight training, add some cardio on the mix as well. But to eat more calories than your body burns every day. That gap of extra calorie intake, that will be stored as some kind of mass on your body. Now without weight training and like a stimulus and creating a need for your body to want to build more muscle with that extra energy. It's all right, it's going to get just put on a spare body fat. But when you eat enough food to over recover from weight-based training, you will begin to gain reasonably substantial amounts of muscle. So I'd say just starting looking up, you know, had a bulk for beginners. Some basic workout style, like splits. And then just go from there. The information is pretty digestible. Right now we're probably at the most, what's the word of thinking? That's engageable? Are the easiest, well, the most connected time that we've really ever been in. So you don't have to go to a library and bust out the Arnold and Cyclopidea body building. It probably wouldn't be a bad start though. Just start watching some freaking YouTube videos, man. Everybody here has definitely gone through the experience of watching a million athlete-x Tricep pushed down tutorials and everything else to learn like the basic justs of things. And before you know it, you'll be off on your own, do your own workouts, come up with your own stuff, make in your own gains and... ...for getting... ...skeys the limit. But it's definitely going to start with an increased calorie intake in terms of gaining weight. Highman shoe, underscore 72. Sam, can you please say hi to me? Hey there. Let's get a couple more here. He's questioning if I hit the gym and did my cardio. And yes, yes I did, Mr. Wiskers asks, I guess, says stallion for Nando. And that's interesting. I don't know about this Mr. Wiskers business. Let's get you. Mundy 3PSX, what's your end-game goal with bodybuilding? Well, hypothetically, I want to continue to get bigger and more muscular for a while. And then once I've reached a point where I'm like, alright, this is big enough. I probably just want to stay there pretty lean for a while. And then eventually taper down, get a little bit more light athletic kind of build. And then just keep working out. That's kind of the plan there. Kind of not the most extravagant, but that's sort of the path I want to go down. Like, there's no infinite rate of gains. I'm never going to be 400 pounds lean. There is kind of an end goal. And I think I'm definitely closer to the end than I was to the beginning, so in terms of my overarching bodybuilding style goals, I'm definitely on track towards what I want to see. But it's just a time thing. I'll keep you updated for sure. Let's see. What do you do? Have ever been fitness member of the month asked, silice.1860? No. No, never. That'd be funny though. Fitness member. What do you have to do to be fitness member the month? What do you think is that kind of criteria? That's making me curious. Let's get a couple more down here. Average guy 6242 asks, what's your back damage prevention plan? Well, I don't really do any insanely heavy deadlifts. And even when I do RDLs and I round my back, I'm not lifting and insane amount of weight. Like, I don't feel like I'm putting my back in any kind of potentially damaging position. Even though it might not look like awesome, it's a little bit around this from a movement like that. It really doesn't shoot off any worrying signs in my mind. But also with any heavy squat and any loading based shoulder press, and by shoulder press, I mean weight loaded onto my back and my shoulders. Make sure I get a big breath, keep my back straight. And apart from that, not much. I never really, the best, I mean, obviously the best trick is just don't do anything that would get you hurt. But apart from that, if you're dealing with any kind of like PT style stuff, I would definitely look into a reverse hyper. That's all I, a reverse hyper and inversion table. That is basically all I ever hear with only solid results, at least when used consistently for any kind of back problems. Let's keep going. Let's give it a few more. Okay, this is the last one. Him and shoes, this guy already asked one. Well, I already said it. How's your gang is con fight prep going? I'm not sure if you're going to do that. I'm not sure if you're going to do that. I'm not sure if you're going to do that. Well, I already said it. How's your gang is con fight prep going? Who leaked that? When did that get leaked? Because I swear I've not said anything about that gang is con fight. I guess the bag is out. It's going quite well. I'm feeling pretty spray about it. All right. Now let's find the, let's find the one last one here. Cat name asks Jesse 3621. Well, there's a couple now. So, on my parent's house, I've got, why did I just forget anything? Oliver, who I got him as a kitten from some of them. My mom worked with. And he's kind of half inside half outside. You know, sometimes we don't see him for a couple of days because he runs off on his own. But he always shows back up. He's tough. He's definitely tough on he can handle himself. Even just picking him up, he can tell. He's not just a lap cat. Like this is a predator. Like he'll come back with spoils from his hunts. They get left at our back porch. Not so much now. I've very, all those little critters are kind of in hibernation. But I can guarantee this spring is going to be a blood bath on my parent's back porch. And then I've got three of my apartment. Rocky, the black one, who is like, he looks like a damn thoroughbred show cat. When I adopted him, he was real kind of skinny, like very kind of thin. His coat wasn't as full. Because he was a band in stress. So he was a little on the scrappy side. But I could see the beauty within. So once he started again, three tins of wet food a day. He X. I'm going to try to remember to add like a before and after picture of him. Because unrecognizable once he got an extra four pounds of beef on him. Plus a full fluffy coat. Yeah, he is awesome looking. And his tail is like as long as his body too. He's the best kind of a luth though. He just walks around. This is something. And then his real, the white one. He's got like two brown spots on him. He's a little more cutley. He's a little bit more of a shatter. But he's great nice. And then the most recent one is Rascal. He's another. He's not a stray. Now he was a. He was a. What do you call it? What do you call it when someone gives up their cat to a shelter? But either way, he's still adjusting. He's he's buddies with the other two like they'll sleep together and everything. But he still though he doesn't want to be picked up and held yet. He doesn't mind getting pet but he's not. He's not ready to get picked up and held. That'll that might take a little while. But I think that pretty much clears it up. So I'll get some more of these kind of Q and A's going. But if you were, so I'll just delete this post now. I don't want to leave it up if nobody else is, if nobody else's comments are going to get answered. But either way, I think that kind of. Kind of clears up some of those questions if any of those were ones that you were waiting to hear from. So I'm going to go home. Get some sleep. Actually, no, I'm not going to get some sleep yet. I get to put that beef away. Go home, put that beef away. Have a bowl. Then get some sleep. So I guess I'll just see you for what I hope to be a freaky arm pump tomorrow.

There we go. Alright, a little bit of a later one. It's 10 13 PM on this December 29th Sunday night. And that a lot of gyms are open. But I will tell you this, there is one gym which fails to disappoint. Oh, and it fails to disappoint for being open any time. Now, some of them are much scrappy or than others because it's kind of a... It's like a guy-by-guy franchise sort of thing. So it's not like every gym has to have a corporate set of everything. Like every planet fitness has the same stuff and every LA fitness I would assume is like stocked with a lot of the same things I've never been to one of those gyms. But at any time, it can kind of vary. I've been to some really crazy badass anytime. There's this one kind of in the outskirts. It's like two hours away from me. It's like a camping style trip. So I went to like this random anytime and it was sick. They had this awesome back room. I think it was one of the... one of the later bulking videos. It was a chest-aid over there. There's a few days, but the chest-aid in particular was the craziest because the gym had this back heavy room. Dumbbells to 150 power racks, everything else you could want. It was just really freaking cool. So luck in the draw. But for the most part, the enemy teams are kind of holding the wall gyms. Like a little smaller. They get some hammer strength stuff. They get some racks. They get some with machines. They've got cables. They got dumbbells. And they really are fully stocked. So I don't want to... I'm not trying to dog it any other gyms specifically. But for a long time, I kind of feel like in my mind, plan of fitness was what came to mind as like, okay, which gym membership should I get if I want to have a gym open when I travel? Because if you pay the extra 20 bucks a month or something, or I think the extra like 10, or there's like a fee, whatever. You get to go to any planet anywhere. You just scan your thing and you're good. But the problem is, they're not always open, you know? The anytime is way better because they are a little keycard. You can put an apple thing in your wallet and you just scan it to get it like that. That's the plan for tonight. And anytime that any other gym is shut down, that's usually where I go. Or I would get a home gym cleaned up with my parents house and just lift down there as that's kind of a... That's how I might to do list as well as like 12 or 12. Like eight different imma's on returns. I got a bunch of camera lenses that I did not end up using your liking. So I got to send all those back. But plan for tonight's arm day, triceps in biceps obliteration with just a touch of side delts for kicks to see him, to see him a little bit pumped up during the post-down. And that's kind of the gist of it. So I'm not sure if I want to do a superseted style of like triceps set immediately into a biceps set. Part of me feels like I might want to because when I'm dited down, you know, I've only had 100 grams of carbs so far today. The pump is a bit fleeting. So, you know, let's say I completely thrash triceps in the time that it takes to finish biceps. And triceps pump could be like halfway gone by the time the post-down starts, which not cool for me. So, you know, we'll just have to see. But either way, whether I end up doing all triceps first or all biceps, that won't really change what the lift is composed of. It would just change like the actual machines that he used in wet water. So, I've got to do some rupic extensions, some overhead tricep cable work. And then maybe some single arm underhanded stuff, we'll just have to see if you're tries. But, either way, I want to hit a regular style push down, some kind of stretch based overhead, something or other. And then, I guess that's really it. And then one more little something in the middle. And with curls, I got an even easier set of checklists because I just want to make sure that whatever set of curls I do feels good. You know, I don't think there's anything magic about doing a set of like preachers versus a set of, you know, like some kind of just regular standing alternate curl. But, depending on just how I feel, one or the other might feel way better. Like, I'm kind of imagining myself doing some dumbbell preacher curls today. So, that's for whatever reason, that's just in my mind. So, if I think that would feel good, and then I'd start it, and I like the way it feels, I almost had a couple sets of those. And I'm even just thinking about it now, I think I like the idea of doing some creature dumbbells because I'll be able to give myself some self assistance on a couple reps for the end. And I think I'm starting to get on to something. And then I'll just throw in some side laterals, maybe some front raises, or some face pulls, I mean, for some side-in-rear delta activation. But not the most complicated lifts in the world. And I was feeling pretty sleepy. What the fuck was that? Well, whatever. I was feeling pretty sleepy earlier because this morning I went extra crazy into an hour and a half of cardio. Or it was more like a new. So, it was 45 minutes on this seated, sort of half-seated bike half-a-lipical kind of thing. That actually ended up feeling pretty cool up in that. So, it was 45 minutes there. 15, or no, I did 30 minutes on the treadmill. And then I finished with them at a 15 of the seated bike. So, that's definitely a little tip that I didn't think of before. If doing 30 minutes of cardio feels kind of monotonous and boring and like a chore, then just change it up, man. I mean, do 10 minutes on the bike, 10 minutes on the treadmill, and then maybe like 10 minutes on the elliptical. 10 minutes on a cardio, on a piece of cardio equipment. It goes by pretty quick. It's once you get into that like 15, 20, 25. That's when it starts to feel long. So, if you change it up, it's been working well enough for me. But what I consider a lot of cardio might be a little bit different than what someone who's not so acquainted with the cardio equipment might feel. So, if switching it up every 10 minutes helps you, I say go for it. But nothing else to discuss about what we just get in there and get this arm-daised started. Hopefully I'll be home before midnight. Let's keep the classic here and start with some five reps alternating single arm push dance. Once I had another side, once I had other side, until they're pretty much fully cut. And I think I know exactly how I want to go about it. I'm thinking the resets are tries. The resets are buys. Two sets of tries, two sets of buys. One set of tries, one set of buys, and then a superset at the end. Because that adds up total to about, not about exactly seven working sets per muscle group, which for me has kind of been my sweet spot. So, if historically I know seven is about right, then it's just kind of a fun way to do it. Because it's like, I get to build up the pump of both arms, both muscle groups at once. Kind of like an increasing rate. But sometimes I don't like supersetting them because I like the idea of completely wrecking one muscle before moving on to the next. So I think that this sort of three and three, two and two, one and one sort of approach is a nice medium. But it's not that magically special about it. I'm still doing the same amount of working sets for the lift as I would've had it all tries and then all buys. It's just a little bit of a different way to go about it. And sometimes I think that's all you need to do to spice up your training, make it more interesting. Because if you feel like your lifts are boring, like when guys say, I'll do it. I'm getting real bored of my workout split right now. It's like, I don't think it's the splits fault, and if you're doing the exact same lifts every day, or every muscle day, then yeah, I get that when we see it getting a little bit repetitive. So, don't be afraid to change it up. If you're doing back and by's, you do like a back movement, and then immediately superset it with a bicep movement, one lift. And then go back to your normal, like all back all buys, like, you know, just keep an interesting. As long as you do your working sets at a reasonable rate, you're still did the workout. You know, don't be afraid to try and your shit like that. But right side first. Now, now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Now. Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah No Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Oh, yeah Yeah, let's do one more just like that with a self assistance and then I'm not sure what kind of curl I want to start with Let me think about it for a little more Yeah Yeah Yeah Wow Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah Yeah I'm gonna be so late. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Oh, my goodness. Yeah. You know, actually, that's probably camp out right here. I think some cable curls are just about exactly what I'm looking for. So in a mind of these are a little bit on the next year side of things. But for this set, I basically just want to do heavy. Not exactly V bar. What would you call this? Just bent bar curls. And then go from there. A couple of long days ago. This was the only boobin I did. And it's just, it's got everything. A really hard squeeze. A good stretch. And it's basically feels like my biceps are getting loaded evenly throughout the whole movement. Which might seem kind of like, oh, obviously you're holding weight. They're going to be loaded the whole time. I mean, that exactly, you know, like when you do a easy bar or a dumbbell preacher curl, it's heaviest at the bottom. Right? When your arm has the weight furthest away from your elbow, that point of rotation. And then when you get to the top, most of that weight is just being supported by your bones. So it's easier to hold it at the top, right? Nobody rests in a weighted creature down here. Now you take a rest up here when you can breathe. But with this set, it's basically just kind of equally hard throughout the whole thing. So it's a very consistent build up of a fatigue. If you catch them, kind of, going down there. And some bring me the horizon won't hurt either. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, my God. One more that same weight, but the one after that, I'm going to have to drop it a little bit, I think. Yeah. Yeah. That's your update by 20 for the next one. Here's a nice though. It's hard to beat something just straight up heavy. One more. Yeah. One more. Oh, yeah. That was good. Next move, but. Don't even have switch handles. I think some overhead extensions with this one will be freaking perfect. So let's just get this bunch out of the way and make it happen. So with these reps, especially given that I already have a bit of a tricep pump, what I really want to make sure I do is, like imagine I'm facing the right way. I get to this stretch position. I want to basically completely relax my arms to the point where they just bend as much as they're going to bend. Like the tension's completely off my triceps. I just let them completely stretch out and then pump out another rep and try to ride the negative slowly and sort of feel it. And that's it's easier said than done. You know, it's always like you had to control the negative. No swing in the way around, but it's kind of like a like once you get it, you get it kind of situation because you're going to watch me do some nasty sets of like straight apart pushdowns or I'm pumping out reps and I'm definitely feeling it. But with slower controlled sets like one of these are like with a rope extension. There's this certain like a cruel of fatigue that you just start to feel as you slowly. Enter that stretch position and much easier said than done, but if it clicks for you, then that's where you'll start to see the value of these slow controlled sets which this one will be. No, right. Yeah, right. Yeah. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Oh, can I say it? One. No. No. No. No. No. Oh my gosh. Let's grow some setter. I'm not sure I want to do dumbbell preachers though like I thought. You need to take it to the side. Let's just do some single-up curls here. Right side first to the left side, which some self-assist is. It's exactly what I'm looking for. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. One more just like that. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Oh, you're up. Okay. Let's pick a move into the superset on, I think. Yeah, that'll be good. Curls. So, you know, 10 inch reps here, 10 reps here, maybe drop it to eight, drop it to eight, six, six, five, and some arms are completely inflated with blood. That is a plan. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. Oh my god. All right. Let's pose now. Arms complete, no, so on. There we go. All right. That was a really good freaking arm workout. I just sin here right now. I can feel that my arms are extra full of blood. Definitely compared to normal, which dieting to this degree is starting to feel a bit less frequent, but luckily enough today was a rather inflated pump, which I've seen. I've seen some kind of surprise, but I've been in extra cardio, didn't eat any extra food. And yet I feel extra pumped. So lucky lucky me, but let's just run through some classics here. But even just stand up and start to feel like a total of meatball. Oh my goodness. So obviously no Kevin Laveroni level yet, but that's certainly some chunks of meat. Oh my god. Oh my god. So we got all that in the classic. Yeah. We are getting somewhere. But for you who needs to get back to the car, I have a little bit of a post-lift discussion. For me, not getting off so easily. No, because that's to got 30 minutes of cardio. So I'm going to go get that going. And then you'd just enjoy nice little time skip to the campsky. There we go. That was a good one. So it's been approximately 30 minutes on the seated bike. I am now ready to go to bed. So final meal of the night is just going to be about six ounces of cubed top-round steak that I've got sitting in like a five pound... ...where'd it be? Maybe pile. That's in my fridge from a whole bunch that I can't cut up and slow cooked down. So I'm going to slow cooked in the sous-v. Four hours at 128.5 with a variety of garlic, onion, salt, pepper, a little bit of barbecue, sort of seasoning and whatnot. And that's the way to do it. And it really is. Like I'm not one to meal prep per se. I don't have meals stacked up in my fridge or anything like that. But it does make it much easier to have at least the basics in bulk. So what am I eating the most over right now? Protein. That's basically... I mean, that's half of my calorie intake is all just straight protein. So if every time I want to eat something, I need to cook either like a half pound of ground beef or turkey or whatever, then it kind of becomes a bit of a chore, you know? If I've already got five pounds of ground beef sitting in the bowl waiting for me, all I gotta do is scoop out as much as I need, right? Wait out in the scale. Boom. Eight ounces. Perfect. So that's where my the biggest extent of my meal prep's. Has your as you feel the pressure? Oh. It has really been just making sure I've got enough protein on hand. So I've probably going to be through all of my cube stick within the next day or two. And I've got five pounds of that green, I don't say green. Ground lean turkey waiting to be cooked as well. So that's just going to be as simple as empty at all five pounds into a pot. Low. Give it a couple of stirs every so often and then once it's fully cooked, strain off the fat. And one thing I've every time I talk about doing like the lid method where you flip the whole thing up, set it out and give it a shake. I am aware it is easier using the strainer. But the strainer's that I have, they're a little coarse, they're not so fine. So sometimes they've up losing the chunks of the like the ground beef or I would presume the ground turkey as well. So it just doesn't work. At least it's nicely as I want and you need to get a different strainer. But one thing that I have been doing which I see you guys talked about a lot is once I finish straining off most of it. I fold over like three or four layers with the paper towels onto the bottom of the big, kind of salad bowl that I end up using. And then I cover that with, well I pour the rest of the ground beef or turkey into it. And then with another two or three layers of paper towels, give it a hard squish just to kind of suck off any little bits of bits of fats. And every time I talk about that, I get a reasonable amount of comments. Sam, why would you strain off the fat? The tallos were all the nutrients are in the ground beef man. Look man, I've only got so many grams of fat that I can eat so far right now. Or every day, I'm at 40. I try not to go over sometimes I do and I eat it up. It's not the end of the world but I've eaten it before. And if I had like a really fatty cut of steak, like if I had a big rib eye, that was a bit on the soft side of things, that could be my, all my fat intake right then in one meal. So it's not a question of like the quality of the fat or like the, you know, micronutrient density of the different oils or whatever else. Like that's not exactly the problem here. The problem is simply it's too many calories, you know. It just doesn't fit in the schedule. It doesn't fit in my sort of daily allotment. So all my protein now is lean, lean beef, ground turkey. I got a bunch of really like natural, deli turkey. And I can tell it like you even the scrappy turkey, like the Oscar Meyer, whatever, makes my stomach even a few ups and I like it. So now every time I get the deli turkey, I try to get like the most organic one I can, like get my hands off. The best bed is just going to Costco and getting like a big five pound, like 10. I'm not 10 but like five pound, like vacuum seal, the turkey breasts straight off the bird. I don't know post processing apart from cooking. And that's really good because it's just, it's just straight meat, low fat and or nothing. But all the protein sources are coming from lean, lean spots, man. I mean, I've got no, I don't have cartons of eggs right now. All I have is egg white. Well, I guess carton, not the, what's the, what's the word? Carton of eggs. But you also say carton of milk, wouldn't you? Well, I've just got the egg white cartons. So, you know, there's no yolk going on right now. Because it's little things like that. Those even just five calories or five grams of fat per meal, extra. That's going to add up. All right, let's say I'm eating five times a day. I'm really eating more like four but let's include like random snacks. So let's say I eat five times a day and extra five grams of fat in every meal. Which you wouldn't even notice. That's just putting like a little bit of extra butter on a piece of toast or like a sandwich or something. Like you wouldn't even notice the difference. You barely build a taste. But five grams of fat, five times a day. 25 grams of fat. How many calories is that? That's 225 calories. That just got added on to my daily alignment. Or my daily intake like nothing. Like I didn't even notice. So I really can't stress enough with the calories. You've got to be seriously like nitpicky every single gram of everything. At least if you're dieting down in a fat loss context because as soon as you go over your calorie deficit, then it's just a matter of fact you are no longer burning body fat. Because your body needs to run on a certain amount of energy every day. Right? Let's say your car. You're driving a certain amount every day. Just being alive. And every day you've got to burn through five gallons of fuel. So if every day you eat five gallons of fuel, then you're good. You're going to go back and forth all the energy that you consumed. Got burned. You didn't have any extra. You didn't have like a you know a deficit or anything. All the food that you ate got burned off. Now if every day your gas tank burns five gallons, but you fill it up with five and a half gallons, then every day your gas tank is now increasing by half gallon. Right? Slowly but surely. The same thing is going to happen in reverse. So if you need to run on two thousand calories every day to stay the same weight. Like you look it up online maintenance macro or online maintenance calorie calculator. Plug in your info and it says for you to maintain your maintenance calorie level is 2100 calories. And it should spit out some basic like macro ratios or whatever. So if every day you ate two thousand calories, then your body has to make up for that hundred calorie deficit by way of fuel that's already in your build. And the thing that's going to get used first is going to be your intramuscular carbs. Right? Your glycogen stores. So whenever marathon runners talk about like carbing up before they go or like the day before like a big race or something. That's what they mean. They're eating a lot of carbohydrates so that all their glycogen stores, their little carb gas tanks throughout their entire body get filled up. Because carbs are your easiest source of energy. And once those are gone and you're depleted and flat, right low on carbs, then your body is going to have to run on the second most readily available energy source. Body fat, right? Adapose tissue. So you have to go through a process of burning through most of your excess internal carbs, your glycogen. And then stay in the calorie deficit long enough that you start to burn into some of your body fat. So if you're not consistent with it, then you're just going to end up like burning through some of your glycogen, refilling it with like a cheat day and then you never actually end up losing any body fat. Like when I talk about dieting, there's an unfortunate stage in the beginning where you're basically fat and flat. And what I mean by that is like in my first two weeks of dieting, dieting down from this last bulking phase, I did not start to look better and leaner. I just started to look smaller and flatter instantly because that's the time period where I'm not burning through any fat. All I'm doing is burning through all my intramuscular glycogen, like all my sugar stores. So that doesn't make me look any leaner, it physically just makes my muscles smaller, because that's what a lot of your sort of myal fibreller, fibreller, whatever kind of volume is full of just sugar water. And once that gets depleted to a low enough level, then that's when you really get into the body fat, pretty stage of things. But what I'm trying to get at is you have to be consistent in a deficit for a few weeks, straight, no cheating before you can even get to that stage. Like when guys talk about, if you ever hear somebody say, oh well you don't start burning body fat in the first 15 minutes of cardio, you have to get past that first 15 minute mark. That's stupid, that is silly, I don't know where that even came from, that's a random jargon. But in a more longer form context, you really don't start burning body fat in a calorie deficit for at least as long as it takes for you to basically flatten out and to plead your glycogen stores. You know, because let's say tonight, I just let the floodgates open. I ate 500 grams of carbs of like I say, I'm going to have five packs of ramen. I'm going to stop at the gas station, get three packs of fruits and eggs, I'm going to need a bunch of cereal, whatever. Let's say, you know, alternate universe, that's what happened tonight. Then tomorrow, I'm going to wake up, probably feeling kind of weird because I just gained probably like six pounds of carbs in water. But tomorrow, I'm going to now basically be pretty full of carbs. Like all my little sugar stores throughout my entire body will now be full because I just ate a crazy amount of food, crazy amount of carbs specifically. So if tomorrow, I said, okay, I got a lock back in, I'm getting back on my deficit. And I only 2000 calories. I really don't think I would have burned any body fat that day. All I would be doing is burning through all those excess carbs that I just stored up across my build because I just ate a ton of a yesterday and basically filled up that first sort of, you know, storage cell. So it's almost like you got your main line power to your house, which is all the food that you eat. And then you've got two backup generators that first backup generator is really easy to turn on. He just flip a switch, let's say it's like a batter. So as soon as your house stops getting enough power, which is you eating less food than you burned today, then you're going to flip onto that little battery bank in the basement. That's your carbs. And once that runs out, that's when you really start using that second generator that body fat storage and start burning through there. So that's usually kind of my thought process with it. And it might be a little hard to explain or hard to get just by me, like, saying like that, I really need like some fancy info graphics like right in here. But that's usually how I think about it. So if you're thinking about, okay, I want to start dining down. Then you have to have a good grasp of like, okay, I'm not going to see the results that I'm working for for like, minimum four weeks because at first I'm just going to feel smaller. I'm going to feel weaker. I might not feel a strong in the gym. Oh man, I died in sucks. I have screw it. I don't even look at any leaner. It's like, yeah, you don't look at any leaner because you're not leaner yet because that's the hard part. That's the that's the barrier to entry of anybody who wants to get into the dieting because the beginning really is the hardest part. I'm going to get into the dieting because it's all work and no reward. But once you get past that stage into what I would call phase two, now your flat is going to be your carbs are gone. But you're finally starting to eat into some of your real body fat. So in that first stage you're just burning through your carbs. That's where you're going to drop like six pounds in a week. If you jump straight to a real calorie deficit, like in my first week of this diet, like I dropped like 10 pounds. Because that was all just carbs and water. I've got to store it up. And then that instant drop slowed to a steady progression. And that's when I'm really starting to burn body fat. So you got to make it through this tricky part in the beginning and then get on this slow and steady phase for long enough that you start to really see the results you're looking for. So all that's to say is if you're thinking about dieting down, you know, you've looked up how to track your macros. You've got a basic plan, okay, I'm going to eat 200 grams of protein, 50 grams of fat, 200 grams of carbs. That's my limit for the day. I'm not going over it. And you've got a basic plan, then all you really have to do is just stick with it. And much easier said than done, of course. But if you can do it for long enough, then once you actually start to see yourself getting leaner, that's the motivation right there. Every time I see myself noticeably leaner by a certain degree compared to where I was a few weeks ago or months ago, that's very motivating to make me say, okay, this cardio's getting long. I wouldn't mind eating a bunch of treats right now. But I do want to see myself getting leaner. I've seen myself change from the last three months to now. I want to see just how much further I can push it. And also, I know that within three months I'm going to be bulking up again. So it's not like I never get to eat treats ever. It's just kind of saving it for later. But I hope that I hope some of that came across as the process of jumping into a real dieting phase. But if you didn't, well, what do you do? Do your cardio. That's... That'll be my last little finishing statement for you. So I think that's all I got. I've got a leg day playing for tomorrow. Nothing crazy. Hamstring curls, leg extension, cissy squats. Just get a pump. And hopefully I start to see some new veins and striations. So I'm going to try to make tomorrow's lift a little bit earlier than tonight's. I'm getting on a bit of a gradually later and later schedule, which is probably not good. So I'm getting the last couple days of kind of just been waking up when I wake up. Making sure I sleep enough. But I think I got to start to sit in my alarm again and really jump it up. I was waking up like six for a while, but I went out to win the... So either way, I will see you for a freakiest leg pump tomorrow.

Alright, so it's early. It is much earlier than my last couple of lifts have been, which is a rather good thing for me, because I'm going to get back onto a more normal schedule. So, what I've got tonight, legs, hamstrings, quads, touch of adductors, maybe even a hint of calves, if I'm feeling a little extra crazy, and then they'll really be it. And the stakes are kind of low. I don't have any crazy, heavy sets of leg press or anything planned, which are making me anxious or kind of nervous for, because that's just not the kind of training I need to do right now. Frankly, the leg extension is probably going to be responsible for 75% of the quad stimulation, and then that'll be coupled with some sissy squats as well. Either on their own, or, as like a supersetter to kind of pre-exhaust kind of situation. And then hamstrings will just be hamstrings. Some are the else, cables specifically, because they just feel the best. Some cittacurls probably more likely some laying curls, actually, I sort of prefer the laying curl at this gym. It's like there's nothing wrong with the cittad one. Just doesn't feel as good, like this one for whatever reason, just doesn't click with me personally. And that's not a subjective thing. It's just something about the way that the seat is angled. Like, I'm sure you, machines like pull our machines, like leg extensions and hamstring curls or pre-chic curls, they're pretty well made to the point where most people can basically jump on any of them, at least if you're in like a reasonable height range. And it should feel pretty good. But for some reason, this one just doesn't, something's off. Pullovers are especially tricky. I mean, once you get guys a little bit taller too, I mean, making a pullover machine that really works with everybody. That's definitely, that's definitely a trick that trades for sure. But that's why it's not so, or it's probably not such an awesome idea to just copy. Some guys work out specifically, lift for lift, everything for everything, because odds are half the reason that that guy is picking certain machines and certain orders isn't because that machine is like magic. It just works pretty well for him. So if you want to do a pre-church type movement for buys and the machine weighted like plate loaded or stack loaded handle just doesn't really work for you. Just swap it out for dumbbell instead. You know, or that sort of thing. It'd be foolish just to do a movement specifically because it's that movement. And not try to think about what that movement is actually doing for you. So all that's to say is, if I've got a choice between a laying curl that feels really good and a seated curl that feels a little scrappy for me, I think you already know which one of those are going to pick. But this will be a pretty quick one. It shouldn't take more than an hour total. And then hopefully at the end there's some new quad veins I haven't seen before during the foes down, but no point speculating that. Her speculating about that now. I'm able to just get ready to go in there and make an happen. After all that smack talk, let's just do the seat of curl. And this is a light squeezing set. Like the hard part is going to be like imagine this is my leg. This hold at the bottom. And then we'll go from there. Lets do this as low to one.feeding kick once and start doing the same in the ass like that. And come up here. I've helped you. Here she goes. Yep YouTube Maybe Yep Oh yeah okay one more alright let's move on let's just repeat the exact same thing except now with a length roll moderate weight nothing too crazy nice sorry set to my preferred settings alright come on one more like that and the next one is going to be a much lighter squeeze except and then I think that'll be it just a two movement hamstring let's move on to quads this will be the last year oh my goodness alright never chuck the length by 50 40 and you're squeezing set this will have a full second hold of the top and then there's many spots if you want, see before? That's enough hamstrings. Big coat. Let's get some blood, sorry. I actually did three or four or five sets of adductors and a little bit of calf raises between that last set of hamstrings because of leg extensions taken. Let's get some leg extensions started. Light-ish five reps, five reps, five reps alternates just as kind of a quad starter. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood. Let's get some blood.

It happened, it finally happened a whole another year has passed. And if you've been watching these videos for long enough, then you would know that basically, well, reason we sporadically across this entire last year, like I'm talking March, I'm talking July, I'm talking September all the way, even just in my earlier February, I'm sure you can find a ton of little quotes and phrases where I'm basically saying shit man, we're too much deep. We're four months deep, we're at the halfway point, year 50% over. You know, we're at the 80% market, it's October man, it's November. And then now, well, for you, for me today's new year's Eve, but by the time this gets uploaded, man, all another year, 2025, we're gonna have a massive spike of Xing out of the four than writing a five on dates, as well as a whole new, oh, it's like a reset, you know, the white board is now being erased. 2024 is over, new year, new main new goals, new routine, new everything. Locked in 2025, winter, our grind set is now beginning for many. And that's not the unfortunate part. The fact that it is going to end for not just as many, because every year of course, there's a whole new crew of basically freshman to get locked into, I'll just anything, right? But the majority are gonna end it, you know what I mean? It's, I keep seeing the, like, random posts talking about how whatever percentage of people give up on their new years, whatever, by like one week or like the first Friday of the year, they had like some kind of name for it, fake or Friday, you know, something like that. But I think that's where it's gonna help to have a little bit of a chip on your shoulder and really just try to stick out because think about this, you know, who is really killing it? Who is really getting somewhere in terms of any sort of goal or like skill or anything? It's not just guys who have like in same talent, like sure that's definitely gonna play a part. There's dudes and, I mean, there's a million, like guys in Brazil who are like two years younger than me, way more jacked, you know. But what I'm trying to get at is as much as there are dudes who just have a natural gift for shit. That's not the majority. A larger percentage or at least a larger, you know, demographic of dudes who actually make shit happen, are the ones who just show up and really showing up is like 70% of them, you know. I would not be surprised if you took two dudes or let's say you did it in like a, you know, a study style where you actually had like a control group and a different group all of a very similar demographic. Largen of the, you could actually like take some data from it. You took one group and you had them do their regular routine all year, just like normal, work home, chill, and then that's the gist of it. And then the other group don't even give them a workout routine. Don't even tell them any specific goals to hit. But make sure that for 30 minutes a day, minimum, they go to the gym. Now there's no requirement that they have to even do anything. There's no like log book, like okay, I did this, just having them be in that space for 30 minutes a day or let's see even just say 30 minutes, five times a week, make it a little bit more realistic. I can almost guarantee that you will see a noticeable bump in a couple of different fitness metrics of those guys because if they're in the gym, odds are they're probably gonna work out, you know. And not even the most crazy Eric Boogan-Hagen like zurture deadlift 405 or like just being in the gym and doing a couple sets of everything. You just bounce around, like you don't have to know what the hell you're doing. Like do a couple sets of curls, do a couple sets of pull-downs, do some like extension stuff, like going from zero to even just come into the gym and bounce around on a couple of machines consistently. That is a massive difference. So I think it really sucks how much of a like elitist view that real gym rats kind of have about the gym and maybe they don't, but I'm just seeing like there's kind of a like an air to the gym ones like okay, I wanna know what I'm doing before I come in here like, I don't want people to think I don't know what I'm doing. Where I mean it's just not the case, you know. I mean, yeah, if you see the clips of like planet fitness fails where like some guy is holding on to both cables with the full stack jumping around like spider-man. Yeah, I mean he deserves to get clowned on. But for anybody who's just doing regular stuff like as long as you don't do anything they're greasively weird, nobody is even gonna think that. You know, we all know what I said if dumbbell curls should basically look like or what I said it push down should basically look like. I mean, just pull up a damn athlete and then you can actually work out the tutorial video, watch him do it and then do the same stuff. Like that's really all it takes. So I'm not really, I might not be hitting my intended demographic here because if you're watching this you probably already lift. But what I'm trying to get at is like, if you know anybody who's a little on the fence just because they don't feel like they know exactly what they're doing or like, oh, I don't think too. Just bring them a lot, you know. Any gym rat worth his salt is been lifted for a while has indoctrinated a couple dudes into the gym over the course of time. I mean, I've had a group in high school where it's like six of us. And I always the main gym rat guy. We bring them all in, I wrote out like a full workout routine, like just basic stuff, like two sets of pull down, two sets of rows, two sets of pullovers, like we walk through everything, you know, like it's not, it's not the craziest thing in the world. But it's a pretty awesome example of you're going to suffer more in your mind than your well in reality. Where it's like if you make the gym out to be this intimidating space and look all of me, I don't know if I want to be this. Then you're already putting yourself in this state of like anxiety that you're not even going to want to go. And I can't stress it enough. Like this is my last point of saying this. But just showing up consistently, 70% even might be a little bit too low of percentage. Like compared to the populist that's out there, the amount of people that even go to the gym consistently, like let's say five times a week. What do you think? 5%. Maybe even like 3% of people are going to go to the gym five times a week consistently. So if that's the bar, then for you to even show up and come to the gym on the regular, you just whoops 97% of people. You're now in the 97% time and then take it as step further. Get some freaking metallic up plan, get some through the fires and the flame going in your head phones, get extra amps up and then when you go to the gym consistently, you also kill it consistently and you try to not redline your effort but at least you know know that you're pushing yourself. Dude, I'd say you're easily in the 99%ile there. And then there's nothing that there's nowhere else to go. It just becomes a waiting game. And that's my favorite part about the gym is the fact that once you get a routine in place, like once you're working out in the regular, you're tracking your mac rows, let's say you even go extra crazy, you start doing your cardio consistently as well. Even just 30 minutes post workout every couple of days. Like that same thing with the lifting, even just adding that is going to be a huge jump from zero. But if you can start doing that, then it's no longer a question of, okay, am I going to be able to achieve my goals? Like, is this even possible? Like, it's not an if. It's simply a win because it doesn't take that much to make fitness goals. All right, train, eat a reasonable diet, sleep. And then the fourth step is kind of not even really a step. It's just repeat that loop. indefinitely. So, not the most complicated shit. Now, it's not the easiest. I would never say that. But it's not the most complicated. So all that's to say is I hope that the gyms don't start to dwindle in terms of their new spike in populists. Because honestly, if everybody that got a gym membership this year stayed in the gym the whole year, I mean, that would really just be a just a massive boost, fitness wise, because then more gyms are going to need to get more equipment and then they're going to need to expand. And then there's going to be a newer space and machines and stuff. It's like the more people in the gym that better because that would that would hypothetically sort of induce this upward spiral of gyms getting, well, just getting more membership fees and then getting more stuff. It's just kind of just sort of a loop like that. But that's where it's out of my hands. And it never wasn't my hands to begin, but it's not my fitness journey. It's yours. So, do you want to be able to look back over the next six months and think, oh yeah, 2025 was my year and not even in like a cringe. Like, I'm going to lock in this year kind of TikTok kind of way. Like, you actually made this shit happen. And that is much better than the alternative in my mind. So, get to the point where you lock in in isn't even a question. It's simply your natural state of being. But for my first step of this new year's Eve Day, I've gotten an hour of cardio. So, I think I'll probably do 30 minutes on a seated elliptical and then maybe 30 minutes on the seated bike. After we're just to change it up and then I've got 15 minutes in the sauna. Depending on how hot it is. Sometimes they, like, you can, so the sauna is just sort of this, it's got a temperature pro in the wall. So, some guys when they're really serious, they go up and they splash the temperature pro with water to cool it down so that the sauna starts pumping out more heat. So, if it's really hot, like an oven, I'll just do 10 minutes. But if it's normal temperature, like it is, I think like once 60 or once 70 or something, then I can handle a full 15 minutes. But after that, as long as the yoga room is open, we can cut two little postcardia posts on a post down, see how I'm looking a little extra. We're not really pumped, but I'm really flat either. Well, I guess just in my postcardia state. But either way, I'm going to start watching the Squid Game 2 or