Do you think you've mastered neurology? Let's put your knowledge to the test. >> A 45-year-old man with a history of hypertension, hyper lipidmia, and diabetes melllois presents for right-sided weakness and speech dysfunction. The patient went to bed last night in normal health. When the patient awoke this A.M., his wife says that he did not have symptoms and was able to speak normally. Around 10:30 a.m., he went to his shed to work in his shop. At around 11:30 a.m., she found him in the shed on the ground without the ability to move his right side and mumbling. EMS was called and he was brought into the emergency department where he remains weak and mumbling. On examination, he has right hemoplegia involving the arm and leg as well as right facial droop. He is unable to speak, mumbles incoherently, and is able to follow a simple command to open and close eyes. What is the next step in management? Well, EKG is never a bad thing to do, but it's not the next step in management for this patient. Paroxismal AIB is a potential cause of a large vessel occlusion. And this patient's symptoms, the territory of brain that's involved is quite large. He has hemibody symptoms and a dense aphasia. So we're worried about a large vessel stroke. And the ideology may be paroxismal aphib, but that's not the first thing we'll do for this patient. We could think about aspirin. And aspirin is a good idea for patients who are suffering a cerebrovascular event. But again, it's not the next step or the best next step for managing this patient who presents within a window of time where we can intervene. MRI of the brain will be done for this patient. We want to evaluate whether he's had a stroke and really define the extent extent of that stroke. But again, this patient has presented within a window of opportunity for an acute intervention. And so MRI of the brain is not needed to diagnose the stroke. Clinically, this patient meets criteria for an eskeemic stroke. And so the best intervention and the best next step in management is to evaluate the patient for TPA. The patient presents with a last known normal within 1 hour of symptom onset. His symptoms are consistent with a left MCA syndrome. We need a CT of the head to evaluate for hemorrhagic stroke and rule out a hemorrhagic stroke. And then we would consider and proceed with intervention with tpa administration.