Do you think you've mastered physical examination skills? Let's put your knowledge to the test. In this trivia challenge, we'll cover four key areas of the physical exam. Cardiovascular examination, respiratory examination, abdominal examination, and neurological examination. Each area includes three questions, one easy, one medium, and one hard. Worth one, two, or three stars. You'll have a moment to think before we reveal the correct answer along with a brief explanation from Lecturio's expert medical content. Keep score as you go and find out how strong your physical examination skills really are. Let's get started. A 62-year-old man is evaluated for exertional dysnia. On oscultation, you hear a low pitched extra sound immediately preceding S1. It is best heard at the apex with the bell of the stethoscope in the left lateral decubitous position. Which of the following is the most likely underlying pathophysiology? It's part of the atrial kick. What's happening when you hear an S4 is that the left ventricle has fully uh fully filled during diastilly. You had diastolic filling and at the end of diastily the left atrium is contracting and spitting out that last volume of blood from the atrium but it's hitting against a stiff left ventricular wall. >> A 20-year-old male collapses during basketball practice. On physical examination, a systolic murmur is heard best at the left lower sternal border. The murmur increases in intensity with valva maneuver. Which of the following mechanisms explains this finding? So the valva maneuver is when you ask your patient to basically bear down almost as if they're having a bowel movement and by exerting that abdominal pressure uh you're basically having the patient squeeze their upper chest against a closed glauus. So they're contracting all those muscles of respiration as if they're trying to forcefully uh exude air. But since they have a closed glattus, all they're doing is dramatically increasing intrathoracic pressure. I said before that when you take a breath, you're decreasing intrathoracic pressure because you're creating a vacuum. This is the opposite. You're dramatically increasing intrathoracic pressure. And by doing so, you are preventing blood return to the heart. You're telling the IVC and the SVC to not deliver blood to the right side of the heart when you perform this maneuver. As such, you're decreasing blood to the right side of the heart. Eventually, that means less blood to the pulmonary vascular bed and then to the left side of the heart. So, you're decreasing preload, decreasing Venus return. So, as I suggested before, for most murmurss, if you decrease the amount of blood running through the heart, that should decrease most murmurss, right? Less blood means less turbulent flow. But with Hokum, what's happening in Hokum is that the stenosis, the source of the murmur is underneath the aortic valve down here. There's extra tissue in the either inventricular septum or elsewhere in the left ventricle that as the walls of the left ventricle get smaller with decreased preload. That stenotic area has now been brought closer together which tightens the area through which blood needs to get out. So when you have a large heart, a dilated heart by with lots of blood going in there, those walls which were closing in are now separated. The murmur will be less. But as you do valva, you're slowly decreasing the walls of that heart with each contraction. And now that turbulent flow around that bend in the interventricular septum, if you will, is now creating a louder murmur. During a cardiovascular exam, you notice splitting of S2 that becomes narrower during inspiration rather than wider. This finding is most consistent with which condition? So what happens is if this is S1 here, mitral and tricuspid. And this is your S2, aortic and pulmonic. When the person takes a deep breath, the aortic and the pulmonic will actually separate like so. And that's normal physiology. And that's driven by the fact that when you take a deep breath, you're creating a negative space in his chest that's actually drawing more blood to the right side of the heart. If there's more blood in the right side of the heart, it's going to take longer for that pulmonic valve to close. And so the pulmonic valve moves farther away in time while the aortic valve stays largely in the same place. That's called physiologic splitting. We expect to hear that when you're listening to the chest in this area, you should listen to make sure that when he's inspiring, when he's inhaling those uh that second heart sound does split like that. In contrast, there are some instances where, for example, the aortic valve may actually uh be displaced in time, particularly with a left bundle branch block. Now, if you have a left bundle branch block, the left ventricle is going to uh contract later than it's supposed to. So rather than having your S1 here and your S2 here with aortic and pulmonic valve, these two are actually flipped like so. The aortic valve is now over here and the pulmonic valve is here. So when this person takes a deep breath, the pulmonic valve moves over. So what you're hearing is paradoxic. You're hearing during inspiration the two heart sounds moving closer together. And that's because the pulmonic valve is moving the way it's supposed to, but the aortic valve is so delayed by the bundle branch block that you hear the pulmonic valve catching up with it during inhalation. >> When percussing the thorax of a healthy patient, which sound is most commonly expected over the lung fields? The next sound we were listening for is resonance. Resonance is the sound of a chorus of low pitch sounds throughout a tissue that is relatively hollow. It's not a hollow viscous. It's not a drum, but it is nonetheless airy and light. And that perfectly describes the chest, right? So, let's take a listen to see what the sound of resonance sounds like. You'll note that my finger is typically for most physicians or clinicians, you're hitting the distal uh segment of your middle digit. I'm keeping my other hands off the chest to avoid dampening down the sound. And that's the sound that I'm reproducing which is a sound of resonance. In contrast, timony is since that's also describes a particular drum in somebody's drum set is a specific pitch. And you're typically looking for tony when you percuss over a hollow viscus. The stomach would be the most obvious example. When you percuss over the stomach, you'll actually hear one pitch. It's a hollow sounding sound and it tends to have a longer duration and it's lower in pitch depending upon the size of the viscus that you are percussing. In a patient with suspected unilateral plural eusion, you percuss dullness at the lung base. Which finding on tactile femus would support eusion rather than consolidation? I can clearly feel vibrations in my hands as I march up his the back of his chest. In a patient who has again a significant lung consolidation, those sounds of from that are coming from his voice box from his larynx are now going to be accentuated as they pass through solid tissue. So you'll have increased tactile femus that'll be transmitted to my hands. In contrast, if you had an eusion in there, and remember dullness to percussion is going to be the same whether it's an eusion, you know, fluid or if it's a solid. So dullness to percussion can't tease those two things apart. But if there's a consolidation you'll have increased tactyl feminis whereas if there's fluid those vibrations from his larynx are not going to be transmitted through fluid. So you would have decreased tactile feminis. >> You oscultate a patient's lung fields and can clearly distinguish words spoken softly by the patient during whisper counting. What is this finding called and what does it most strongly suggest? Now, normally when you have a patient speak and you're trying to listen in the peripheral lung fields, you can't hear anything. It's just muffled kind of sounds. Certainly, I'm hearing him vocalizing something, but I have no idea what is being said. I can't hear consonants or syllables or anything like that. when you can actually hear things more crisply, more uh more robustly, we call that broncophony. Bronophony, which is basically that the bronchial sounds we were talking before about bronchial breath sounds, which is the sound of vibrations from your voice box or from your airways going down the large airways out to your stethoscope. If you can hear actual words, the sound of people saying words, we call that bronophony. And if you can hear it even more crisply, you can actually make out the words. We call that pectoriloquy. And this goes back to Renee Lanik's descriptions of the lung sounds. He used the ancient Greek to describe pectoriloquy as chest talking. Remember peect means refers to the chest. The pectoralis muscles is the chest. Iliqu is from the same root as the word soliloquy which is a person talking alone on stage. Well pectoriloquy is the chest talking. And it's based on on the idea that if I can hear somebody actually talking through my stethoscope, I'm hearing the chest talk. The reason that that is a marker of disease is that it means that his voice box is vibrating when he's making words and that sound is being transmitted through the large airways to some sort of solid tissue. again a tumor or a pneumonia that is conducting those vibrations directly through his chest wall right to my stethoscope. When is a positive Murphy sign elicited? So Murphy Stein is based on the idea that the gallbladder is inflamed, but when she is in exhalation, the diaphragm is higher and the liver and the gallbladder are therefore higher up in the abdomen and towards the thorax. I'm going to put my fingers down in this area now. And then I'm going to have the patient take a deep breath. So take a deep breath for me. Now if while taking a deep breath which again her diaphragm is lowering the liver and the gallbladder towards my insulting fingers if she abruptly stops taking that deep breath that is that is the Murphy's sign. It basically is indication that by by bringing her her gallbladder slowly towards my fingers um if it arrests her breath um then it suggests the presence of acute choleiccyitis. What is it called when pain occurs in the right lower quadrant upon palpating the left lower quadrant the diagnosis of appendicitis raving sign is the idea that if I push on this side and it causes pain over here um that also supports appendicitis though somewhat less strongly A man with chronic liver disease presents with white nail beds covering 80% of the nail plate with a reddish brown distal band. What is this finding called? Patients with cerosis um often times will have what's called tererry's nails where uh 80% of the nail plate is has turned white or luconicia is present and the distal nail uh bed is kind of a reddish brown. So it's 80% white versus 20% u reddish reddish brown in coloration. >> Which of the following images taken at rest most strongly suggests a right third cranial nerve pulsey. And lastly, a patient with a third cranial nerve paly, the ocular motor nerve. Uh, since you've lost all of the other muscle groups and you have unopposed action of the lateral rectus muscles, a patient with a third nerve paly will have their eyes their eye the affected eye down and out. So heading off towards the lateral corner of their vision. When performing the head impulse test, which finding suggests a peripheral vestibular lesion, then I'm going to quickly move your head in one direction. Good. And I want you to take note that his ocular syphalic reflex is intact. No matter how quickly I move him, his eyes stay locked onto my nose. And if his eyes are staying locked onto my nose, I know that his vestibular nerve is functioning. In contrast, if a patient is having vertigo symptoms with or without nestagmus, they're going to misdirect. They're going to their eyes are going to follow the direction of the head and they'll have to make a corrective sacad back to um back to my nose. In contrast, a person who's having a stroke, they have dual inputs. They have both sides of their head are working to make sure the ocular syphalic reflex is working. And if the vestibular nerves are intact, they will also have a normal finding. So, it's important to make sure you're just doing this test in someone who's actively having vertigenous symptoms. What is the term for the failure to identify objects by touch with eyes closed despite intact primary sensory modalities and where is it found? All right. So, for stereoign nosia, I'm going to basically have you close your eyes and put out your left hand. And I just want you to try and identify what that is in your hand. >> That house key. >> Perfect. That is a key. And now give me your right hand. and see if you can identify what that is. >> Quarter. >> Perfect. Now you got exactly not that it's just a coin, but actually that's a quarter. So that's perfect. So the ability to take all the information, the sensory information, and process it is the work of the parietal lobe. And that tells me that's functioning well. >> And that's a wrap. How many stars did you earn? If you scored 3 to 12 stars, you're a physical exam rookie. Off to a great start on your learning journey. If you scored 13 to 25 stars, you're a physical exam pro. You've built a solid foundation. And if you scored 26 to 36 stars, congratulations. You're a physical exam master. No matter your level, keep sharpening your skills with Lecturio, your all-in-one study companion for success in clinical practice. Drop your score in the comments and let us know which physical exam area you want to tackle next.