Today we will be analyzing a question together and I will take you through my thought process in answering questions in the US military one. A 31-year-old woman with a history of Addison disease presents with widespread symmetric hypopigmented patches in macos on her face and hands. A wood lamp is used for further exam and a fungal ethiology is excluded. The patient is diagnosed with vitiligo. Which statement is correct regarding this patient's condition? With this question, they already gave you the diagnosis. The first thing you have to do is to try to understand what do they want from me. And in this question we need to know what vitiligo is all about. So what is vitiligo about? Vitiligo is an autoimmune disease which can be associated with Addison's disease, diabetes malitis and usually it is due to absence of melanocytes in some areas. Now let's read the options together. The first one there is spontaneous repigmentation in 50 to 20% of patients. With vitiligo there is genetic association definitely and usually about 25% of people with vitiligo they have um parents or someone who who has had this disease. But let's leave that for now. Let's go into the second option. The disease is predictable with rapid progression. This is not possible because like I said vitiligo is utterly new. So it's not predictable. Vitiligo is an unpredictable disease. So we can scrap this out. The next one, koid formation is associated with regions of depigmentation. In the US Emily, when they speak about koid, usually they give you the hint of an African-American woman because koid is more popular in black Americans, African-Americans. So, we can scrap this out as well. The next one, it is self-limited and will resolve in 8 to 14 weeks. Vitiligo is not a self-limited disease. It will not resolve on its own. You need to actually treat this with corticosteroids. And the final option, topical cortical steroids are not, you see, not helpful for patients with limited disease. Now, you need to be careful because if you're reading through the question, you might just see tropical steroids are helpful, not are not helpful. You actually need to take your time to read the questions. So, like I said earlier, we use corticosteroids to treat autoimmune disease and we need to start the treatment very early. So this is definitely not correct because topical cortical steroids are helpful for patients with li limited disease. Now that brings us to one option left. I hope this helped you um to analyze my thought process. Remember try to bring it down to two options. Take out the options that you're certain can never be the answer and decide okay is it this or this and you can have your answer.