Do you think you're ready to test your geriatric medicine knowledge? Let's find out. In this trivia challenge, we'll cover four key areas of geriatric medicine. Aging and cellular scinessence, comprehensive geriatric assessment, common geriatric syndromes, and clinical pharmarmacology. Each area includes three questions, one easy, one medium, and one hard. Worth one, two, or three stars. You'll have a moment to think before we reveal the correct answer, along with a brief explanation from Lecturio's expert medical content. Keep score as you go and discover how strong your foundation in geriatric medicine really is. Let's get started. Which of the following sleep pattern changes is considered normal in healthy aging? Changes in sleep architecture include reduced deep sleep, that's the slowwave sleep, increased light sleeping, that's the stage one and two, and more frequent awakenings. Older adults often experience changes in their circadian rhythm. This is called a phase advance. This can lead to earlier sleep onset and awakening times. Which statement best explains the paradoxical role of cellular scinessence in health and aging? [bell] So recall that cellular scinessence is there uh in the healthy cell to block proliferation of damaged cells. so that uh we can have anti-aging effects and anti-cancer effects. But because we're accumulating damage that we've spoken about previously in this lecture, it leads to an increased rate of cellular scinessence which lends itself to aging. >> Which of the following best describes the Haylick limit? And you're probably familiar with the Haylick limit. Haylick limits suggests that there are a limited number of cell divisions that somatic cells can go through before the tieumirs become short enough to start doing damage to the uh I guess subtly regions of the chromosome um once the tieumirs have essentially run out. It's suggested that uh 50 divisions is about the maximum for any somatic cell. So after that each cell division is shortening the ends of the chromosomes uh till uh we start actually nibbling away at the genes located on the ends of the chromosomes which as you can imagine uh can have some manifestations in the condition of the cell. So >> you are seeing a 75year-old woman who lives alone. Her son is worried that she is losing weight despite not trying to. What should be the first thing that you do? to what's going on. So, I would check B. It's kind of like the newborn when you're worried about failure to thrive or the infant. Um, you know, the first thing you do is go to record and actually see, well, is this re a real result? Let's re retest the baby's weight here. Let's see if the patient's actually losing weight. Because when I hear that issue, oh doc, I'm losing weight. A lot of times I'll go back and 6 months ago they had the exact same weight or sometimes they've actually gained some weight in the interim. >> A clinician asks an older patient to rise from a chair, walk 10 ft, turn, return, and sit. The patient completes the task in 18 seconds. How should this result be interpreted? So, one thing I really like is the tenni balance and gate evaluation. The get up and go test is another term for this. It's um sitting in a chair, then getting up um walking 10 feet in front of you, turning around, walking back, and sitting down. So, um, if the timing on that is under 16 seconds, that's normal. There are actually some nomograms that, uh, that give patients a little bit more time based on their age. So, if they're 94, they may not be able to do the teneti test in the same time the 68 years old, 68-year-old does it. But, a good general rule in my practice is if it's if it's 15 seconds or less, they're they're g they're okay. What does that mean they're okay? It means that the risk of falling is lower. A 75-year-old woman comes for her annual checkup. She lives independently, exercises daily, and has well controlled hypertension. She has a 10-year life expectancy based on her coorbidity index. Her last pap test at age 64, and all previous results were normal. She continues regular mimography and had a colonoscopy 5 years ago, showing no abnormalities. Which of the following best reflects an appropriate preventive care plan for this patient? most exams aren't indicated that the life expectancy is less than five years. Um, but I wouldn't just depend. I I've got a chart coming up which shows you uh when to consider stopping these uh screening tests for cancer. But in a very vital patient, don't necessarily think that just because they have reached the age of 75, therefore it's it's absolutely the time to uh stop screening. Um actually it may be uh better to continue to screen those patients. And in a patient who's 60 um but facing multiple severe illnesses with a a very poor prognosis, they don't they don't necessarily need to go through cancer screening. They have enough probably going on in terms of their medical care just keeping up with appointments for mult multiple specialists. multiple tests and procedures and therefore you know it's the safe thing is always involve patients andor their caregivers in decision-m that said cervical cancer screening that one is more of a hard stop just because the risk of cervical cancer among women with previous normal uh cervical cancer screening tests is very low. So no matter what their you know level of vitality and their life expectancy is if they have a several normal um uh pap tests in the past I I generally will stop cervical cancer screening at age 65. Age 75 is definitely the year to stop screening for prostate cancer. Uh consideration to screen stop screening for colorectal cancer. You can actually rec you can consider stopping breast cancer screening. Um, but for a lot of women, they might go through age 80 or even 85 continuing with breast cancer screening. >> Which of the following interventions best supports circadian rhythm regulation in an older adult with chronic insomnia who is largely homebound? For example, is the patient getting enough daytime bright light exposure to maintain circadian rhythms? This is an important consideration especially in patients who are homebound or live in residential settings. You also can think about cognitive behavioral therapy, structured physical and social activities during the daytime, nighttime interventions to decrease noise and light disruption, and finally discourage or limit daytime napping. Which of the following best characterizes the biological basis of frailty? The mechanisms underlying this decline can include something called sarcopenia and that's a loss of muscle mass and strength. There's also a neuroindocrine dysregulation and that's secondary to changes in hormones that affect energy balance and stress responses. And the most disturbing is this chronic inflammation contributing to tissue damage and decreased function. A 75-year-old woman is brought by her daughter due to progressive memory loss and increasing difficulty managing finances over the past year. Her mini COG test is abnormal and laboratory studies including CBC, CMP, TSH, B12 and folate are normal. An MRI of the brain is obtained. Which of the following is the most appropriate next step in management? So first line treatment for Alzheimer as I mentioned are acetylolon eststerase nibbers. Uh they can be uh used in mild disease which is when it should be caught. There's three agents available. They're generally similar in efficacy. One comes in the form of a patch and that may be associated with better tolerability. Overall, you can expect mild improvements in both cognition and function. They're statistically relevant. Does it really matter in terms of um something clinically that patients can appreciate? Um generally, my opinion and an overall consensus is no. These drugs tend to hold the line and prevent they they promote a slower decline in cognitive ability and function. um but uh they don't cause a significant improvement either for the majority of patients. Nothing that they'll notice. If there's no improvement, if the patients continue to decline 6 to8 weeks later, the medicine can be discontinued and there is a significant uh association with nausea and vomiting and weight loss and tolerability of these drugs um is problematic. >> Which of the following best describes anti-coagulation for atrial fibrillation in older adults? you may need to use them to just be careful with them. Anti-coagulants are underused overall for conditions such as atrial fibrillation. If you think about the average risk of uh stroke in most older adults with atrial fibrillation is about 5% per year. uh the risk of a major bleed is well lower than that. Therefore, it's a the benefit to risk ratio is still positive. Nonetheless, um if patients are falling every, you know, every week, uh that's going to be too much of a risk and therefore that needs to be corrected before considering or continuing anti-coagulant therapy. >> Which of the following best reflects current recommendations regarding antiscychotic therapy for agitation in dementia in older adults? Antiscychotics in of themselves associate with a higher risk of fall and fracture. Also associated with a higher risk of mortality overall. So really should be avoided when they're absolutely necessary. In cases of uh dementia with severe agitation, a shared decision-making should be practiced uh with a family. Maybe it keeps the patient in the home as opposed to going to an assisted living facility, but at the same time is associated with a higher risk of death. >> An 88-year-old woman presents for routine follow-up. She lives independently, but reports feeling lightaded when standing and has had two minor falls in the past month. Her current medications include leinopril 20 milligs daily and hydrochloroioide 25 millig. Blood pressure readings are 116 over 68 mm of mercury sitting and 104 over 64 mm of mercury standing. She denies chest pain or dispnnea. Physical examination and basic labs are otherwise normal. Which of the following is the most appropriate management step? And then anti-hypertensive drugs uh the the systolic blood pressure uh per JNCA guidelines may be allowed to increase to 150 uh among older adults above age 60. Um I generally will try to be a little bit more strict with my control but certainly above age 75 or 80. Um the BP uh can become a liability when it becomes too low and too low might be like 110. Uh so therefore it's something to consider. They patients may need a down titration of their antihypotensive drugs as they move into that category above 75 or 80 years. And that's a wrap. How many stars did you earn? If you scored 3 to 12 stars, you're a geriatric rookie. A solid start to your learning journey. If you scored 13 to 25 stars, you're a geriatric pro. You've built a strong foundation of knowledge. And if you scored 26 to 36 stars, congratulations. You're a geriatric master wellprepared to tackle complex clinical scenarios. No matter your level, keep strengthening your expertise with Lecturio, your all-in-one study companion for success in clinical practice. Drop your score in the comments and let us know which area you want us to quiz you on next.