Do you think you've mastered physical examination skills? Let's put your knowledge to the test. During a cardiovascular exam, you notice splitting of S2 that becomes narrower during inspiration rather than wider. This finding is most consistent with which condition? So what happens is if this is S1 here mitral [music] and tricuspid and this is your S2 aortic and pulmonic when the person takes a deep breath the aortic and the pulmonic will actually separate like so. And that's normal physiology. And that's driven by the fact that when you take a deep breath, you're creating a negative [music] space in his chest that's actually drawing more blood to the right side of the heart. If there's more blood in the right side of the heart, it's going to take longer for that pulmonic valve to close. And so the pulmonic valve moves farther away in time while the aortic valve stays [music] largely in the same place. That's called physiologic splitting. We expect to hear that. When you're listening to the chest in this area, you should listen to make sure that when he's inspiring, when he's inhaling [music] those uh that second heart sound does split like that. In contrast, there are some instances where, for example, the aortic valve may [music] actually uh be displaced in time, particularly with a left bundle branch block. Now, if you have a left bundle branch block, the left ventricle is going to uh contract later [music] than it's supposed to. So rather than having your S1 here and your S2 here with aortic [music] and pulmonic valve, these two are actually flipped like so. The aortic valve is now over here and the pulmonic valve is here. So when this person takes a deep breath, the pulmonic valve moves over. [sighs] So what you're hearing is [music] paradoxic. You're hearing during inspiration the two heart sounds moving closer together. And that's because the pulmonic valve is moving the way it's supposed to, but the aortic valve is so delayed by the bundle branch block that you hear the pulmonic valve catching up [music] with it during inhalation.