Do you think you've mastered pharmarmacology? Let's put your knowledge to the test. This trivia challenge covers four topics: principles, cardiovascular, hematology, and nervous system. Each has three questions: one easy, one medium, and one hard. Worth one, two, or three stars. You'll get a moment to think, then we'll reveal the answer with a quick explanation from Lecturio's expert content. Keep score as you go and see how strong your pharmarmacology game really is. Let's get started. Let's start with an easy one to warm up. Which of the following best defines bioavailability in pharmarmacology? Bioavailability represents the fraction of the dose that reaches the target circulation. Time to step it up a notch with a medium level challenge. What does the Mackilus meant constant indicate about an enzyme's affinity for its substrate? And the KM is actually a measure of the enzyme's affinity for its substrate. And so when I say affinity, it's the desire to bind to. How well does it bind to its substrate? Now CM is interesting. If we think about two enzymes, one enzyme that catalyzes a reaction that has great affinity for its substrate. It really likes that substrate. It really grabs that substrate. And we have another enzyme over here that doesn't like its substrate as well. Okay. Well, which of the two are going to bind substrate more readily? The first one, of course, because it's got greater affinity. Which one is going to get to Vmax over two with a lower substrate concentration? Well, the one that grabs its substrate more easily. So enzymes that have a greater affinity for their substrate are going to have a low KM and those that have less affinity for their substrate are going to have a higher KM. Now for the tough one, let's test your deep understanding. Which of the following correctly describes the phases of drug metabolism? Let's talk about the different types of reactions that occur within the human body. We have three phases of metabolism that make a drug become active or inactive in the body. Phase one reactions are mitig mediated by the cytochrome P450 system. So what the cytochrome system does is it takes a parent drug and makes it more polar as a daughter drug. It either unmasks a polar group that's already within the molecule or it inserts a polar group onto the molecule. The whole purpose behind the cytochrome system is to make the drug more soluble in water so that it can be inside the cell which is of course cytoplasm is water. Phase 2 reactions are conjugation reactions that occur in the cytoplasm. So they add to the OSH and NH2 sites that were added by the uh cytochrome system. Once again it makes the drug even more soluble in water. So it makes the drug hydrophilic. It does so by adding one of these six groups. It can be a glutathione group, an acetate group or a methyl group. It doesn't really matter which group it adds. The point being that these phase 2 reactions are important to drug metabolism because it makes it more soluble in water, even more so than the cytochrome system did. Phase 3 reaction is a further processing of drugs. Not all drugs go through phase 3. For preparation of drug to excrete, we need phase 3 in many of our drugs. So sometimes we're excreting drugs into the bile, sometime we're excreting it into the urine or other lumens. It may even be excreted into the bowel. We often use transport proteins to do this. These transport proteins are usually p glyoprotein. The gene that codes them are MDR1. So when you start hearing about p glyoprotein or mdr1, we're talking about the same thing. It just depends on if you're talking about the gene or if you're talking about the actual protein molecule. Here comes another easy question. Which of the following anti-hypertensive agents is considered a drug of choice for hypertension during pregnancy? So, leettool is the most used drug for hypertension in pregnancy. Clonodine is definitely not what we want to use. Remember that of the alpha blockers uh of the alpha 2 blockers cloned is not our choice here. We can use aldomet which it's which is its sister drug. We do not want to use ACE inhibitors. They're contraindicated in pregnancy. We do not want to use ARBs. They are also contraindicated in pregnancy. So C and D can cause fetal abnormalities. And finally hydrochloroide is also believed to cause fetal abnormalities. And if we can avoid it, we should. The only drugs we use for hypertension in pregnancy with any semblance of comfort is leettool, alphamethylopa or aldimet and in some cases a calcium channel blocker but only after the first trimester is over. In terms of breastfeeding patients, calcium channel blockers are the drug of choice because they are not secreted in milk. Drugs like leettoilol are seen in very microscopic levels in in breast milk. So what I often do with my patients is I switch them from leetylol to a calcium channel blocker postpartum if they still need it. Most cases of gestational hypertension actually you can stop the medication and the blood pressure problems go away when they've delivered. Time to step it up a notch with a medium level challenge. What does the mackilus mention constant indicate about an enzyme's affinity for its substrate? The next category of drugs are what we colloally refer to as funny channel inhibitors. Evabdine is at this point in time one of the few agents that do this. It inhibits the slow sodium potassium channel of the syinoatrial node or the IK current. We call it funny channel because of the appearance of this channel on on electron microscopy and also the behavior of it. So the scientists that first discovered it called it the funny channel. Now this particular agent has many different trade names in many different countries. So when you when you are looking up the drugs in your own country, have a look at my list there and I've got the trade names listed for each of the major countries. Um what you see with this medication is that it reduces the heart rate because it reduces that pacemaker slow and recurrent. There's no real change inotropy. It just really reduces the heart rate and it's particularly effective. It's used predominantly in angina and in heart failure. It's also used in inappropriate sinus tacicardia. Now when we take a look at the effectiveness of this agent in angina versus say a beta blocker, we found that it was actually more effective than a beta blocker and as effective as some of our calcium channel blockers. This one's a challenge. Think carefully. Which of the following medications does not have increased toxicity in the presence of excess potassium? is hard to remember but let let's just keep in mind that deoxin has increased toxicity in the presence of low potassium. Let's read the answer together. All class one anti-arithmics have increased toxicity in the presence of excess potassium. Dejoxin may have increased toxicity in the presence of decreased potassium. I guarantee you this is going to be a question on your exam. Let's kick things off with something simple. Which of the following statements about aspirin's mechanism and effects is true? Aspirin is an irreversible inhibitor of cycllo oxygenase. It is used to manufacture thromboxane A2 and platelets. When you inhibit throbo cyclloxygenase with aspirin actually are permanently inhibited. That means that the anti-platelet function of aspirin is going to last for the entire life of this platelet. And that means that only replacement platelets will be functional. And that means that the aspirin effect is going to last anywhere between 3 and 7 days. Interactions of aspirin are very important because the aspirin is going to um interact with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory pain agents. They impair platelet function on their own. And when combined with aspirin, you actually have an enhanced antiplatlet effect. You've got the basics. Now try this intermediate question. The following medication will act upon thrombin in the serum and thrombin inshed within clots. So the answer is a bivalrudin. Now when we talk about balrudin remember that the hepins in general like amoxipar and unfractionated hepins are generally large molecules and they don't go inside a clot. They do not work on the thromben that is already enshed within the clot. Proteamine is a base that inactivates hepin and not thromben. So that's not the choice. Fondiparanox is a pentamemoy that is cleaved from hepin. It does not affect the thromben that is already inshed within the clot. And then of course the balrudin is coming from the medicinal leech. It's a direct thrombin inhibitor and that acts on insh thrombin. So that's why a is the correct answer. Ready for the hard round? Let's see what you've got. Which of the following statements about warfaren is true? inhibits specifically the vitamin K epoxide redux reductase or vcore. So vcore or vitamin K epoxide reductase may be a term that you see in your exam and in your exam prep. Remember that warrin inhibits that. Warin therefore inhibits vitamins 2 7 9 and 10. You need to know those factors. These are factors that we like to ask questions on. What's interesting about warerin and what's fun about warerin is that it actually inhibits factor C and S as well. So although it inhibits procoagulant factors, it also inhibits inhibitory factors too. Why is that important? Well, I'll show you. Take a look at this graph. You can see in blue that vitamin sorry factor C is one of the first factors that's inhibited by warerin. So inhibition starts with the inhibitory factors protein CNS. This actually gives a pro-coagulant effect. So that means that after day one the other factors are affected but overall you have initial period of hypercoagulability followed by hypocoagulability. This makes for a real headache in the real world. So sometimes we have patients when we put them on warerin actually form clots more when we start them on the drug. That's why in high-risisk patients we bridge them. So we may bridge patients who are high risk with heperin for a couple of days when we first start warin and then once they get past that procoagulant activity and these other factors start to come into play that's when we can drop the heperin and just use warerin on its own and then we monitor INR easing in with a straightforward one. Are you ready? A seven-year-old child is experiencing academic difficulties, attention problems, and poor coping skills. An EEG reveals three hertz spike and wave discharges, each lasting less than 5 seconds. Which of the following medications would be the most appropriate treatment for this patient? Ethosomide is a firstline agent in absant seizures. It is non-sedating and relatively safe to use in kids. B phenobarb is not a first or even a second line agent. It causes excessive sedation. It is used in neonatal seizures because we like to sedate neonates who are having um seizures and it can be protective in them. And we do use it in kids who are in status epilepticus but we won't use it in kids who are trying to do better in school. The next choice phenotone is not a good choice at all. It is it is a drug that we used to use a lot in kids but because of the effects of gingerville hyperlasia and other side effects we've essentially stopped using it in kids. It is also risky because kids sometimes miss their doses and that can actually cause more seizures. Clinazipam causes excessive sedation. So we don't want to give this to children and oxazipam is rarely used in epilepsy and the reason why is because it is also sedating. Here's where it starts to get interesting. Tricyclic anti-depressants exert their effects by blocking multiple receptors leading to various side effects. Which of the following side effect profiles is most characteristic of TCAs? TCAs also have a blocking effect on peripheral tissues. So they do have side effects. Now think about how they work. They will block histamine. They will block muscerinic uh receptors. They will block adinuric receptors specifically alpha adinuric effects and this results in multiple side effects and we'll go through them right now. With respect to the H1 antagonism, you can get sedation, drowsiness, and weight gain. With acetylcholine antagonism, you can get blurred eyes, dry mouth, and constipation. In terms of the side effects, virtually every patient I've ever put on a TCA complains of dry mouth. In terms of alpha 1 antagonism, this results in postural hypert hypotension where people feel lightaded when they move from a sitting position to a standing position. You can also have alpha 2 antagonism. They will complain of dizziness and also a reflex tacocardia. So their heart rate climbs when they stand up. Only the sharpest minds will get this right. Which of the following statements about benzoazipines is true? So you can see that GABA has two particular activity points. Benzoazipene has an activity point in between the alpha and gamma subunit. A drug like zolopam which one which is one of those atypical drugs also acts at a similar site but just a little bit further down. And you can see that the barbituates are transmembrane and they act almost solely on the alpha uh subunit. That's a wrap. How many stars did you earn? If you scored three to 12 stars, you're a farm rookie off to a solid start. 13 to 25 stars makes you a farm pro. You've got strong fundamentals. And if you earned 26 to 36 stars, congrats, you're a farm master. No matter your level, keep sharpening your skills with Lecturio, your all-in-one study companion for medical school success. Drop your score in the comments and let us know which topic you want next.