Now, let's talk about a case. This is a 45-year-old right handed man who works as a software engineer and presents with new complaints of numbness in the hands. He says that for the past six months, he has had numbness in his hands. This initially began in his right hand and he's right handed, and then more recently, he developed symptoms in his left hand. He says that the symptoms are worse at the end of the day and awaken him at night, where he will shake his hands for relief. He reports numbness and tingling in the first three digits of his hands. So the first, second, and third digit in each hand, the fourth and fifth, the fifth digits are spared. Over the past few weeks, he has noticed subjective weakness in the right hand with opening jars around his home. Examination shows no muscle atrophy, he does have mild weakness in the thumb and index finger with opposition. There's reduced sensation over the first three digits, no symptoms in the lower extremities and normal deep tendon reflexes. So what's the diagnosis? Well, there are a number of things to think about in this case. The first is the distribution. This problem involves the first three fingers and not the fourth and fifth digit, and that is very sensitive and specific for a problem affecting the median nerve. The median nerve innervates, the thumb, index, and middle finger and does not provide nervous innervation to the fourth and fifth digit. In addition, we also see that this problem is worse at night, and he wakes up and shakes his hand, which is something we commonly see in patients with carpal tunnel syndrome. And we don't have other findings to suggest a more systemic polyneuropathy. There's no symptoms in the lower extremities and normal deep tendon reflexes. So what's the diagnosis? Is this carpal tunnel syndrome, AIDP or Guillain-Barre syndrome, diabetic polyneuropathy, or a cervical radiculopathy? This is not the typical presentation for diabetic polyneuropathy. That's a chronic onset. Length dependent polyneuropathy that begins in the legs and ascends into the hands. And we don't have any of those symptoms present in this patient. Cervical radiculopathy could cause symptoms in the upper extremity, but it would be quite uncommon to have onset of upper extremity symptoms in both hands at the same time. And typically central cord problems affect a tape length distribution as opposed to the distal hands. And then lastly, AIDP or Guillain-BarrĂ© presents with a sudden rapid ascending polyneuropathy and not focal neuropathic symptoms only in the hands. Well, this is a classic and typical presentation of a patient with carpal tunnel syndrome.