So let's discuss another important subject among older adults. Doesn't affect every older adult, but as patients age, um it certainly becomes more and more prevalent, and that's cognitive decline. So begin with a case. We have a 75-year-old woman. She has a new diagnosis of Alzheimer disease. Testing indicates that she has mild dementia and mild loss of function overall. So what is the firstline treatment for her Alzheimer's disease? Is it GKO mantene behavioral treatment only or is it an acetyl colon eststerase inhibitor? The answer is acetylon eststerase inhibitor and we'll talk about uh drugs approved for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Epidemiology of cognitive decline um it as I mentioned it is common. Uh the lifetime risk among individuals who live over 65 years is up to 20%. The majority of those cases are due to Alzheimer's disease. However, uh the United States Preventive Services Task Force recommends screening uh for cognitive decline only when there's clinical suspicion of decline. And remember that many times it won't be the patient who tells you about cognitive decline. It's going to be someone who knows them well. It's going to be um a family member, son, daughter, spouse. um it's going to be somebody they a good friend or somebody they know from church because there's still a lot of stigma and you can imagine um being diagnosed with uh cognitive cognitive decline is a very scary proposition. So there's a lot of denial among patients and they'll stick to their routines and ignore the fact that they're they're getting more confused, have more trouble with memory um rather than facing um this you know very severe diagnosis and and you know really it I feel a lot of empathy who can blame them for for feeling that way faced with such a terrible disease. So in when there is a suspicion for cognitive decline when I get that story you know I'm losing my I feel like I'm forgetting a lot of things lately and this is something I hear from 35 year olds on a regular basis uh much less 75 year olds. Um you can think about doing uh different tests for cognition w within the office. The mini mental status examination is probably the most widely used. Um although it is proprietary. It is it is something that's still under copyright as an exam. It's fairly lengthy and it's also dependent upon patients language and educational level. So it it I'm not saying it doesn't have a role. It actually absolutely has a role because it's the coin of the realm. Their score on the MMSC means something and it's easily understood by different providers. But I do also like uh a quick screening tool like the mini cog, especially for those 35 year olds. It's a simple test involving first a three item recall. And if that's passed, the chance of any serious uh dementia is very very low. If it if the uh patient can only recall one or two items, they're given a clock draw tw clock draw test. And if that's normal, um their their risk of dementia is very very low. It has an 89 89% specificity for uh at least moder dementia overall and it's not dependent on patients language and educational level. So therefore, it can be a really useful test in the clinical setting as a screener. If it's positive, that has to be followed up with with more testing. Some uh particular causes of dementia and uh and their symptomatology are worth noting. Um it's not something I see a lot in clinical practice, but very well could come up on your exam. Patients with that widebased gate and urinary incontinence, think about normal and as well as evidence of dementia, normal pressure, hydrophilis. patients with ascending paristhesas, feeling weakness, achthesia, and weight loss, vitamin B12 deficiency. And then more clinically speaking, always be be thinking about medications and side effects, particularly as individuals get older and particularly with anticolinergic drugs or other sedating drugs are going to have a significant effect on cognition as well. So when you find a case of dementia, the workup should include a CBC, a comprehensive metabolic panel, a TSH, B12 and folate levels, and in my opinion, every patient with dementia deserves at least one good neuroiming study, preferably an MRI because it's going to give more details. Assessment for amaloid status with either CSF testing or amaloid pet imaging has become a prerequisite for treatment with amalloid targeted therapies in clinically appropriate individuals. Unfortunately, I see patients who get multiple studies uh because there's no coordination of care and that that's a waste of resources. uh but I think it is important to get one study just to make sure that there's no gross lesion within the brain and something that will probably confirm the fact that there's this generalized atrophy consistent with dementia such as Alzheimer's. So firstline treatment for Alzheimer as I mentioned are acetylolonsterase nibbers. Uh they can be uh used in mild disease which is when it should be caught. There's three agents available. They're generally similar in efficacy. One comes in the form of a patch and that may be associated with better tolerability. Overall, you can expect mild improvements in both cognition and function. They're statistically relevant. Does it really matter in terms of um something clinically that patients can appreciate? Um generally my opinion and an overall consensus is no. These drugs tend to hold the line and prevent they they promote a slower decline in cognitive ability and function. Um but uh they don't cause a significant improvement either for the majority of patients. Nothing that they'll notice. If there's no improvement, if the patients continue to decline six to eight weeks later, the medicine can be discontinued and there is a significant uh association with nausea and vomiting and weight loss and tolerability of these drugs um is problematic but it's what we have for um for mild Alzheimer disease because there is another class of drugs the M&DA receptor antagonist um mantine specifically but It's indicated for a more moderate to severe Alzheimer disease, not mild disease. And again, modest improvements overall in cognition, in function, and in levels of agitation. Not something that that you could really say certainly not a cure. Uh maybe something not even that the patient nor the family can can particularly notice, but may just be slowing the decline of the disease. But one thing is it's better tolerated at least uh than the acetto colonsterase inhibitors. So we know that as well monoconal antibodies directed against beta amalloid have been approved for individuals with Alzheimer disease with mild cognitive impairment and documented amaloid pathology. These include aducanomab and leanamab. These medications reduce beta amalloid plaques in the brain and have been demonstrated to slow rates of cognitive decline. As noted earlier before starting these agents amaloid PET or CSF testing is needed. Additionally, MRI monitoring is required to evaluate for amaloid related imaging abnormalities such as edema, hemoceterine deposition and micro hemorrhages. a very difficult um disease to treat and takes a lot of time and care on your part with careful listening. And this is another case where uh having a team involved uh can be particularly helpful just to take care of all the aspects of the patient's life uh from the physical uh to the emotional >> [music]