So some additional key concepts, you heard me mentioned diversity earlier. What is diversity? It's all the ways that we differ from each other and it's the different characteristics that make us unique individuals. So it's why I said your first goal is to think about humans. I see a human being and when that human being is sick I see a human being who's in a vulnerable state and then I need to think about all the characteristics that make that person whoever they are let's say Angela what makes Angela Angela when I say yes you can mention race Angela is black Angela is female addition in addition to I'm human first right Angela's female right now Angela has XYZ symptoms and what do I need to do to help Angela get to a state of optimal health. Well, when we think about that too in terms of diversity, yes, our books teach us one thing, but in real life, what is optimal health to Angela? So, I don't want to force my own beliefs even in terms of what optimal health is. So, personally, I'm a fixer. And if someone comes in with a pain of 10, I want you to get out of here with a pain of zero. Well, the patient might want to get down to a five cuz that's manageable for them. Why I need to respect that? Right? So just having conversations, partnering and thinking about individual human needs. The next concept is equity. So in general, what is equity? It's just a continuous process of assessing people's needs, correcting those historical inequities that brought us to the place where we are now that took away our ability to first see people initially, automatically see people as human. So, how do we correct all those things through this work that we're talking about right now and being committed to and consistently doing the work, putting in the time and effort so that we do create those conditions for optimal outcomes for everybody in society regardless of these identity groups. So, health equity. So that that's very important in terms of what we're talking about as health care professionals, but making resources available and helping people regardless, including people from those populations we relegate to a certain space, right? Thinking about diverse populations. And I'm going to give another example here. Um, let's just say a person is from an indigenous population and they want to practice something traditional from their own um, culture. Who am I to say they can't when it's not causing harm, right? So, we definitely don't want to uh go around and and impose again our our own values and belief systems on people. So, if someone says I need to do a chant before any procedure happens, and this is something I'm making up hypothetically just to say though, even though you feel like what the heck is this, let it happen. If that is a part of what helps people achieve optimal health, let it happen. Is it causing harm to anyone? That's usually what I focus on. Is it causing harm in any way? If it's not, then I do it. Is it going to take me some extra time? So, let's just say it will, right? This person I just gave this hypothetical example of is hospitalized. Well, I know that every time before I go in there to do a procedure, this ritual needs to happen. So, I need to prepare for that, right? And so I will prioritize my patients based on what I I know I need to give extra time to this. Let's say you can't do it. Again, advocating meaning I can go to someone on my team and first I want to ask the patient, are you okay if I go and get whoever it is to come in here because I'm going to be in this room for a very long time and I don't want to interrupt your care and the time for if it's praying, whatever it is. My whole point is that you just need to be able to accommodate people and then um ensuring that there are fair and just opportunities for health. So, how do we get there? Removing those obstacles to health and we'll talk about that a lot throughout the series, but how do we do that? Number one, again, acknowledging what are the causitive factors. I talked about it already in terms of biased induced isms and phobias. That's a big one and that that is like broad. So just think about anything that makes you judge someone and how can I change those things? How can I be a champion for all human beings? And we'll talk about that a lot more as the series progresses. The main takeaway I think from this when we talk about isms will be that these isms and phobias either lead to or perpetuate poverty, discrimination and their consequences including I mentioned earlier powerlessness and lack of access to good jobs with fair pay lack of access to quality education, housing, safe environments, health care and and education is a key because if I'm not educated uh sufficiently then it affects every other part of my life financially in terms of my health and how I think about health. So just think about how all those pieces work together to def uh define the determinance of health and what can your place be in terms of improving those determinants and meeting the goals.