Let us start now about Ebola presentation and Ebola treatment. First we see the pathogenicity of Ebola species. So um we have African variant of Ebola. We have Ebola Zer and Ebola Sudan, Ebola Thai and Ebola Bundi. So a boraza is the most pathogenic species that can kill 70 to 90% to 88% of infected human and 100% of monkey infected. Uh that's was the cause in the outbreak of yamoku kwit my boot and and so on. Ebola Sudant is less pathogenic with 50 to 69% of fatality in human and 60% in monkeys. Dy forests is less pathogenic for human and very high pathogen for monkeys. And the Asian variant it is a bolarstoneone is not cannot infect human but very highly pathogen for monkeys and clinical signs and symptom of abol. So the period of um incubation is between uh 2 and 21 days and between days one and day six the infected person will come with fever, extreme fatigue, mealgia, aralgia, headache, conjunctival injection. Conjunctival injection is very important to observe when you are in during the outbreak of Ebola and sometime you have a slight improvement between day seven and 8. So the patient will find good even as to eat the like is improvement of uh its situation and between days 9 and 11. So uh we can observe the moragic sign like epistaxis a matasis melena giver and enorage and um the final stage is the cardiovascular shock uh with death the infectivity uh increase with the evolution of the disease as I said that will start with uh fever, severe headache, malgia, extreme fatigue, conjunctival infection. Then we have severe sore throat, chest and abdominal pain, skin rash, diarrhea, vomiting and we have immorage, hiccups, so some nance and uh coma and uh so the case fatality rate between 25% and 90%. So as I said incubation period is two between two and 21 days. We we we at the beginning we have no specific sign but with the evolution of the disease with the appearance of emor uh so you can say that it is uh it is likely veryagic fe Ebola and also the case fatality rate is high. um otherwise you will confuse with common disease like uh uh malaria or type fever. So um also when I saw uh for the first time if if you remove uh your needle at the at the puncture uh site the bleeding continue at the place of puncture. This mean that there is a trouble of uh coagulation factors. This is uh very important to understand the pathogenicity of uh of Ebola emologic fever and also abortion um is uh frequent in infected uh plen. Uh this is a case I saw in Kwit and also um the mouth the mouth uh bleeding u uh is frequent in Ebola and marble virus. Um did this ematasis? No it is. Yeah. No it is bloated diarrhea by an infected individual. and the agitation in Ebola patient in gwit uh this is uh the neurossychiatric manifestation of uh of Ebola the here I'm giving you the the symptoms of symptoms sign symptoms of Ebola in bundu bundu species is uh less pathogenic compared to Ebola So you have fever. Fever is the most important symptom in 83% followed by fatigue and uh diarrhea and and and so and so on. So this these signs are not specific for uh for Ebola. we we with this concern we can say that it is malaria or it is typhoid fever. This is the most um frequent um uh disease and in in Africa.