 do you think you're ready to test your endocrinology knowledge? Let's find out. In this trivia challenge, we'll cover four key areas. Thyroid disorders, adrenal disorders, pituitary and hypothalamic disorders, metabolism and diabetes. Each area includes three questions, one easy, one medium, and one hard, worth one, two, or three stars. You'll have a moment to think before we reveal the correct answer, along with a brief explanation from Lecturio's expert medical content. Keep score as you go and discover how strong your foundation in endocrinology really is. Let's get started. An asymptomatic patient is found to have an elevated TSH level with a normal T4 concentration. Which diagnosis best explains this laboratory pattern? Subclinical hypothyroidism is another interesting entity. This usually manifests with an elevated TSH level, with a normal T4 level in asymptomatic patients. A 78-year-old man with a history of thyroidectomy presents unresponsive with hypothermia, hypotension, bradycardia, hypoventilation, hyponatremia, hypoglycemia, diffusedema, and delayed relaxation of deep tendon reflexes. Which diagnosis best explains this presentation? Putting this all together, this most likely fits with a condition known as mixedema coma. An elderly patient presents comatose with hypothermia, hypotension, bradycardia, and laboratory findings consistent with severe hypothyroidism. Before initiating definitive thyroid hormone therapy, which immediate step is most appropriate. How does one treat mixedema coma? First of all, because of the similarities in presentation, always rule out adrenal insufficiency. This can be done by checking a cortisol level. While the cortisol level is pending, always provide an empiric dose of hydrocortisone, because hypoadrenalism is a significant condition and should be treated early. Which tests are appropriate options for initial screening when evaluating suspected cushing syndrome? When you clinically suspect cushing syndrome, the first step is to exclude exogenous glucocorticoids. Once that's done, we move on to initial testing. These tests could include a 24-hour urinary free cortisol test, a late night salivary cortisol test, and a 1 milligram dexamethasone suppression test. A patient with a confirmed catecholamine secreting adrenal tumor is being prepared for surgical resection. Which of the following medications should be initiated first in the pre-operative period? Phenoxybenzamine is a non-competitive alpha blocker and is given seven to ten days prior to surgery for patients needing for their pheochromocytoma. This medication blocks alpha receptors in blood vessels. This is then followed by beta blockade, using a non-selective beta blocker like propanelol, which acts on the beta receptors in the heart and kidney to lower blood pressure further. Beta blockade should be done when all the alpha-1 receptors are already blocked, or else the circulating catecholamines may stimulate alpha-1 receptors precipitating a hypertensive crisis. What proportion of pheochromocytomas and paragangliomas demonstrate malignant behavior? Approximately 10% of pheochromocytomas and 20 to 50% of paragangliomas are malignant. A 28-year-old woman presents with secondary amenorrhea and bilateral nipple discharge. Laboratory studies reveal an elevated prolactin level with normal thyroid function and a negative pregnancy test. Pituitary MRI demonstrates a 9-millimeter pituitary lesion. What is the most likely diagnosis? This young woman has secondary amenorrhea, the production of abnormal breast milk or galacturia, and elevated prolactin levels and a pituitary mass. She most likely has a prolactinoma in her anterior pituitary, causing secondary amenorrhea, which is the cessation of menzies, despite the presence of normal cycles after puberty. An otherwise healthy 28-year-old woman, 8 months postpartum, presents with persistent amenorrhea, excessive thirst, and urine output of 4 liters per day. Laboratory studies show normal serum glucose and calcium with a serum sodium of 146 milliquivalents per liter. What is the most likely diagnosis? Here we have a postpartum patient. She has secondary amenorrhea in addition to excessive thirst and excessive urination. This is manifesting with evidence of dehydration. She also has elevated urine output. Clinically, she most likely has central diabetes insipidus, and you need to check a simultaneous urine and serum osmolarity. A 45-year-old patient presents with progressive fatigue over several years. Based only on the following clinical images, what is the most appropriate next step to establish the most likely diagnosis? In these images, the image on the left reveals the facial features of a patient with advanced acromegaly. Here you see widening and thickening of the nose, obvious cheek bones, a bulging forehead, and thickening of the lips. A patient with hyperglycemia is found to have an elevated serum C-peptide level. Which interpretation best explains this finding? The first diagnostic test that we've noted in this case was a C-peptide. Proinsulin, which is produced by the pancreas, is cleaved into insulin and C-peptide. Both are then secreted from the pancreas into the bloodstream. When you see a high level of C-peptide in the blood, usually this implies that the body is producing insulin. Based on the laboratory criteria shown in the following table, which option correctly matches each condition to its corresponding column? HHS typically presents with normal or small amounts of urine or serum ketones. Plasma glucose values in this condition are typically greater than in DKA and can exceed 1200 mg per deciliter. The serum osmolarity is elevated greater than 320 mls per kg water. Served by carbonate levels are greater than 18 mls per litre, and the pH remains greater than 7.3. In DKA, on the other hand, ketones are a primary feature. Urine and serum ketones are elevated in DKA, and a negative measurement, though, does not necessarily exclude it. Beta hydroxybutyrate is the major ketone body in DKA, but ketone laboratory measurements may often use the nitropricide reaction. This particular measurement technique only estimates acetoacetate and acetone levels, which may not be elevated initially. Acid-base status in DKA, the anion gap is invariably elevated, especially when ketones start appearing within the urine and blood. Based on these fundoscopic findings, what is the most likely diagnosis? The images here demonstrate significant hemorrhages on bilateral retiny, which are significant for more severe form of non-proliferative retinopathy. And that's a wrap. How many stars did you earn? No matter your level, keep strengthening your expertise with Lecterio. You're all in one study companion for success in clinical practice. Drop your score in the comments and let us know which area you want us to quiz you on next. Thank you.