I must say that Ebola at the beginning is like u the most common um disease we have in the in the tropics mean fever or diarrhea. So this is not specific for a border and the the more specific is the the the bleeding the symptoms. So you will have blood diarrhea or uh bloating in the mouth and so on. But bleeding is only we can say only 40% of infected subject will develop bleeding. So at the beginning it is very difficult to say that it is Ebola or other disease. You will see the the most thing to see is the fatality rate that's very high and also the mode of persontoerson transmission and also the contamination of the the nurses in the hospital or the doctor in hospital. So that is uh uh linked to uh Ebola Ebola disease but at the beginning it is very difficult to say that is a Ebola or malaria or typhoid fever. What we are doing now um the the at the beginning it was only um the simple public health measures. So to break the chain of transmission in the community and after that we have the vaccine. Vaccine is very important and we use two two kinds of vaccine. Uh the first is to we call that a ring vaccination. uh is mean that we uh we will vaccinate the contact of the contact. First we have uh a positive case that we call the index case and we will vaccinate all people who are in contact with this index case and so on the contact of contact. So this the first vaccine and the second vaccine is to to immunize the population to have a health immunity in the population. So that will stop the transmission of the virus in the community. We make important progress um in the study of Ebola virus by developing the monoconal antibodies to treat uh Ebola cases and also um the development of two vaccine uh this is the the Mer vaccine and uh and also the Johnson and Johnson vaccine. So um it is the most important progress uh we can mention in the field of uh of when I started um a study everything was like a a mystery we call that a mysterious disease u so our knowledge were very very very small very small in term of transmission of the disease the treatment of the disease the prevention of the disease and the reservoir of the of of Ebola all that were known yes but now uh thanks to development of science and also genetics and many fields of science uh we have developed knowledge and we have now uh a treatment uh with monoconal antibodies uh one of the monoconal antibbody we develop in in our uh institute and we have also vaccine so um the only thing we we uh we need is to know the reservoir of the virus until now we don't have uh the name of the insect of the animals that is reservoir of the virus so I think um we we are now in good way to control uh Ebola uh in our country. My name is Mu Jonjac and I was involved in many many many um outbreaks of of Ebola in my my country. I will happy um to to see you uh in my class to share my experience with you. Thank you.