One of the biggest challenges we face as doctors is localizing a stroke. And if there's one area that consistently throws us off, it's the brain stem. After all, the brain stem is packed with cranial nerves, nuclei, tracts, decusations, and all sorts of complex structures that turn it into a true anatomical maze. So, it's no surprise that strokes involving the brain stem often present with a messy, confusing tangle of symptoms that's hard to figure out and even harder to remember. But what if there was a way to simplify all of this? Well, for decades now, there's been anony called the rule of four force. It was first published by Dr. Peter Gates in the internal medicine journal. And it's incredible because just by memorizing four simple phrases, you can diagnose most major brain stem stroke syndromes just like this. Now, the core idea behind this rule is that we can think of the brain stem like a map with a vertical and a horizontal axis. On the vertical axis, we have three levels. The midbrain, pawns, and the medulla oblangata. On the horizontal axis, we have the medial and lateral regions. The rule of four works by helping us easily recall what structures lie in each vertical level and each horizontal section. So, let's say I'm evaluating a patient and I realize the affected structures are medial and that the signs point to a midbrain level. Well, that's a medial midbrain stroke. It's that simple. Now, before we keep going, there's something important to clarify. This rule was made to simplify a complex topic. And unlike any simplification, it of course skips over some details. So if you're a hardcore brain stem neuro anatomy fan, just remember that this is meant to be a clinical tool, not a neurosurgical dissection manual. Okay. Now, with that out of the way, let's talk about the first phrase in the rule of fours, which goes like this. There are four structures in the midline, and they all start with an M. When these structures are affected, the result is a medial brain stem syndrome. These are number one the motor pathway, number two the medial emniscus, number three the medial longitudinal faciculus and number four the motor nuclei of some cranial nerves. Let's go through them. First we have the motor pathway specifically what we call the cortical spinal tract. What you need to know about this is that when damaged the patient will have contrateral weakness in the arm and leg. Then we have the medial limniscus. Regarding this you should remember that when affected it causes contrateral again loss of vibration and proposeception. Next is the medial longitudinal faciculus. When damaged it causes ipsilateral interuclear of talmoplegia. Just in case you forgot it looks like this. When the patient looks towards the side of the leion both eyes move fine. But if they look away towards the opposite side the eye on the side of the leion can't adduct properly. It gets stuck kind of halfway. And remember this is an ipssilateral finding. The first two were contrateral. Finally, the motor nuclei of some cranial nerves, specifically cranial nerves 3, 4, 6, and 12. I'll show you a great way to remember this in just a minute. So, if you think about it, three out of four medial signs are motor. So, when you think medial, when you think about the medial symptoms, you should really think about motor, medial, motor, medial, motor, and mostly contrlateral with the exception of the eyes and cranial nerves. Everything else the main like signs and symptoms you see are going to be contrateral. Great. Now let's move on to the second phrase in the rule. This one is all about the lateral brain stem. And it says that there are four lateral structures and they all start with an S. And this is very easy to remember because they're all to the side. So side S side. Now these are first the spino cerebellar tract, the spinoalamic tract, the sympathetic pathway and the sensory nuclei of some cranial nerves. Now let's walk through them. First we have the spinal cerebellar tract. Damage here causes ipsilateral attack. Then we have the spinoalamic tract. A lesion here produces contrlateral loss of pain and temperature sensation. Third is the sympathetic pathway. When affected it causes ipsilateral horner syndrome. The triad as you might remember is meiosistosis and hydrosis. Meiosistosis and hydrosis. And finally we have the sensory nuclei of some cranial nerves especially the trigeminal nerve. When damaged it leads to ipsilateral loss of pain and temperatureation on the face. Now you can think of some pneumonics to remember these findings. An easy one might be fat. But the important thing to remember is that everything besides pain and temperature is ipsilateral. Okay. Awesome. Now, let's do a couple of quick cases to test everything we've learned. Case one, a patient shows up with right-sided limp atexia, right-sided hoarder syndrome, facial sensory loss on the right, and pain and temperature loss on the left side of the body. Where is the lesion? That's right. The lesion is in the right lateral brain stem. Case number two, another patient presents with left-sided hemiparesis, decreased propreception on the same site and right-sided interuclear ofoplegia. Where is the lesion? That's right, is in the right medial brain stem. Great. Now, let's move on to the final rules. These deal mostly with the vertical axis and have everything to do with the cranial nerves. Rule number three says specifically that there are four cranial nerves in the medulla oblonga. four in the pawns and four above the pawns. This one is the easiest one to remember because it's fairly logical and it's very simple. You just need to remember that they go in a descending order. But be careful with a couple of tiny details to remember. The first one is that the cranial nerves one and two aren't in the midbrain. They belong to the forbrain. That's why the rule says that there are four above the pawns instead of that there are four in the midbrain. And secondly, keep in mind that cranial nerve 8 is not only involved in pontine syndromes as the image shows, but also in medularary syndromes. That is actually really, really important. And I know that it kind of messes up the whole rule, but it's really important because in medularary syndromes, particularly in lateral medularary syndromes, the vestibular component of cranial nerve 8 is really, really fundamental. And we'll talk about that later in the video. And finally, the fourth rule says that some cranial nerve nuclei are medial and others are lateral. Now, how do you tell? Well, it's very simple. If the cranial nerve number divides evenly into 12, it's medial. So that includes, of course, cranial nerve 3, 4, 6, and 12. All of the others are lateral. By the way, these are precisely the cranial nerves we were referring to when we discussed the first rule that said that the medial region contains some motor nuclear of some cranial nerves. Well, these were those cranial nerves. Okay. Now, maybe you want a quick refresher of what happens when each of these cranial nerves is damaged. So, here's a quick summary, but if you want a deep review of each nerve and how to test them, I suggest you check out lecturious physical exam series. It's fantastic and it's a very thorough resource to learn all of these. That said, let's move on to some cases to test everything we've learned. Okay, let's break this down first. Medial or lateral? Well, hemoperesis and loss of vibration and prop perception suggests medial and contraateral signs, right? So since the symptoms are on the right, the lesion has to be on the left. So medial left side. Now let's think about a vertical level. What gives it away? That's right, the tongue deviation. That means the hypoglossal nerve is involved. And this nerve, as you may remember, is in the medulla of the left medial medulla, a classical medial medularary syndrome, also known as the urine syndrome. Let's move on to the next one. Okay. So, same thing first. What's the horizontal axis? Medial or lateral? Well, the presence of atoxia, horner syndrome, facial sensory loss, and contrlateral body sensory loss all suggest lateral, particularly a right lateral syndrome. Now, what about the vertical level? Where do you think we are? Well, the two key findings are signs of cranial nerve 7 and 8 involvement. How do we know that? Well, first we have facial pulsy which suggest a cranial nerve 7 involvement and we also have vestibular and coar signs. The vestibular signs are vertigo and instagmos and the coar signs are hearing loss. So all of that suggest seven and eight involvement. And where are the cranial nerves seven and eight located? Well in the buns that means we're dealing with a lateral bontine syndrome. Now up to this point we've looked at pretty clean textbook style cases but real life and boardlike questions aren't always that neat. So for this last case, I grabbed a real clinical vignette from lecturous question bank. Let's see how you do with that. Okay. So if you answered lateral medulla, you nailed it. Why? Well, atexia plus horner and pain and temperature loss is equal to lateral syndrome, right? And the horizontal nestagmus suggest a cranial nerve aid involvement. Wait, but didn't you say that cranial nerve eight is in the pawns? Yes, but remember that I told you one exception to keep in mind earlier. Keep in mind that cranial nerve 8 is not only involved in pontine syndromes as the image shows, but also in medularary syndromes. Well, I said that precisely because of this syndrome. You see this is a Wenberg syndrome, a lateral medularary stroke. And although in paper these cases can present with cranial nerve 9 to 11 involvement, in practice and in most exams that rarely happens. Most cases just present like this with lateral findings plus vestibular compromise and nothing else. So if you see this presentation, suspect wallber syndrome, it's much more common than a lateral pontine syndrome. And if they want you to answer that, if they want you to answer lateral pontine syndrome, trust me, they're going to mention a facial pulsy. But hey, you don't have to take my word for it. With Electurio, you can test that for yourself. Just go to the topic you're studying, click start, and you'll get a curated set of clinical cases built to help you practice and test yourself on whatever you're learning. If you like, you could actually go there right now and keep learning about strokes, neuro anatomy, neurology, or whatever other topic you fancy. And that's it for this video. Thank you for watching, and we'll see you in the next one.