Imagine this. You're in the hospital and you've just ordered an RBC transfusion for your patient. Minutes later, the nurse calls. Doctor, the patient looks sick. What's the first thing that runs through your mind? What are the possible causes? How do you figure out what's going on? And more importantly, how do you treat this patient? Well, those are precisely the questions we'll answer today. So, grab a drink and let's dive together into everything any doctor should know about transfusion reactions. Okay, so there are many types of transfusion reactions, but five of them make up the vast majority of what you'll see in clinical practice and what you'll be asked in your boards. And there's a very easy pneummonic to remember these five. Fever, halo, fever is for fibbral non-hemolytic reaction. H stands for hemolytic reactions which include both the acute and the delay types. A is for allergic reactions that is range from mild itching and hives to full-blown anaphilaxis. L refers to lung injury in a syndrome we known as trolley or transfusion related acute lung injury and finally O is for overload specifically a syndrome we called taco transfusion associated circulatory overload. Now each of these reactions has a unique clinical pattern. So let's go through them. Let's start with the fibral non-hemolytic reaction. This is the most common and usually the mildest syndrome of the bunch. It is believed to be caused by pro-inflammatory cytoines released with the administration of the blood product. It presents with fever and chills that begin within 1 to four hours after the transfusion starts. Importantly, there's no hypotension, no low back pain, and no renal compromise. Now, let's contrast this with an acute hemolytic reaction. This one is a medical emergency. It is caused by incompatibility that leads to a type two hypersensitivity reaction where the recipient's antibodies attack donor red blood cells causing intravascular hemolysis. And the key word here is intravascular. This usually develops very shortly after transfusion starts and presents with non-specific signs like fever and chills as we just saw in the previous complication but also hypotension tachicardia flank or lumbar pain and dark urine from hemoglobinia in severe cases this can progress to DAC and renal failure so just to recap just fever and chills febal non-hemolytic reaction fever chills plus hypotension low back pain renal compromise that is acute hemolytic reaction Okay, now let's move on to the delayed hemolytic reaction. Unlike the acute version, this one is actually not that concerning. It occurs in patients who were previously sensitized to nonABBO red blood cell antigens, usually through prior transfusions, pregnancy or transplants. Upon reexposure to these antigens, their immune system launches a response leading to extravascular hemolysis. Keyword extravascular. So acute hemolytic reaction, intravascular hemolysis, delayed hemolytic reaction, extravascular hemolysis. Now here signs and symptoms are more subtle and usually consist just of fever, mild jaundice and maybe anemia and importantly they occur days to weeks after the transfusion was given. Okay, perfect. Next up we have allergic reactions. These are caused by a type one hypersensitivity reaction to plasma proteins in the donor blood. The spectrum here goes from mild to potentially lethal. Mild allergic reactions typically present with just skin symptoms like hives or maybe some itching. But on the other hand, anaphilaxis which is the most severe complication presents as we all know with systemic compromise characterized typically by bronospasm and edema and cardiovascular collapse. And now let's compare the final two complications trolley and taco. The first thing to know about this apart from their complicated name is that they both cause dysmnia and pulmonary edema but for completely different reasons. Trolley on the one hand is an inflammatory condition. It is caused by donor antibodies in the transfused product that activate neutrfils in the lungs leading to a non-cardogenic pulmonary edema. It presents with a respiratory distress plus systemic inflammatory signs like hypotension and fever. On the other hand, taco as the name suggest is all about volume. Here there's simply too much blood going around and the heart cannot handle the volume adequately which leads to a cardiogenic pulmonary edema. Here patients also present with dismia but not with inflammatory signs. Instead they have congestive signs like hypertension JVD and an S3 gallop. So this MIA plus hypertension JVD is taco and this Mia plus hypertension and fever is trolley. Perfect. Now let's talk about how to approach these patients. And first things first stop the transfusion. This is the most important and immediate step no matter the reaction. And sure, it may not be strictly necessary in all patients, but hey, better safe than sorry, right? After this, we usually check the vital signs and assess ABCs. We also notify the blood bank to make sure a mistake didn't occur. And we order specific tests depending on what we're suspecting. Suspects, order a direct test. And also in the acute hemolytic reactions, order Billy Rubin levels and haptoloin levels. Suspect trial or taco, order a chest X-ray and consider BMP levels to rule out taco. think it's an aphilaxis? Do the immediate treatment first and then rule out an IgA deficiency. Wait, what? IgA deficiency? What does a hummeral immuno deficiency have to do with this? That's a great question. You see, in IgA deficiency, patients develop antibodies against IgA as they don't have that antigen. And when they receive products that contain IgA, as it happens with blood transfusions, their immune system treats the IgA molecules as foreign antigens because they are foreign antigens. and that triggers anaphilaxis. This is very important to keep in mind because some patients with IGA deficiency don't present with the typical immuno deficiency picture and sometimes their presentation is literally just anaphilaxis induced by blood products and the boards really love to tell this concept. So make sure you understand it fully. All right, now let's go through the treatment for each type of transfusion reaction. And just to be absolutely clear, I'll repeat myself one more time. For all of these reactions, the first step in treatment is usually the same. Stop the transfusion. After that, the next steps depend on suspected diagnosis. In feral and non-healytic reactions, we usually treat with antipetics like acetaminophen. That's it. Now, to prevent recurrence, the key is to use luke reduced blood products in future transfusions. And this is also a highly tested concept. So, try to keep it in mind. In acute hemolytic reactions after stopping a transfusion the next step in treatment is usually to start IV fluids and if the patient remains hypotensive use vasopressors you also need to monitor clinically and with labs for signs of renal failure and disseminated intravascular calculation. Delayed hemolytic reactions on the other hand don't usually require any significant intervention. You simply monitor the patient maybe measure a controlled hemoglobin level and make sure to perform antibbody screening so this doesn't happen again in the future. For allergic reactions, treatment depends on the severity. Mild cases like hives or itching can be managed with antihistamines. But if the patient develops anaphilaxis, you need to administer epinephrine start IV fluids and provide ventilatory support as needed. With trial and taco, we also provide ventilatory support as needed. But in taco specifically, we also administer IV diuretics to reduce the fluid overload. Now one important note is that in order to prevent taco in future transfusions consider using as lower infusion rate or splitting the units. This is also a highly tested concept so keep it in mind. And that concludes our review of the transfusion reactions. Now it's time to put your knowledge to the test. To do this, go over to lectur integrated cubang and try some clinical cases. In fact, here are a couple for you to get started. Drop your answer and rational for each case in the comment section below. Hope you found this useful. Thanks for your time and we'll see you in the next one.