 multiple endocrine neoplasias, or men. These are a group of symptoms for patients who develop multiple hormone-producing tumors, and med students hate them, because they're similar enough to blur together in clinical vignettes, but just different enough that the boards love to test whether you actually remember which is which. They're the same picture. But worry not, because in this video we're going to simplify men. We're going to tell you everything you need to know for your boards so you can confidently answer anything they throw at you. So, for your boards, we mainly care about three types of men. Men type 1, men type 2A, and men type 2B. There's also a type 4, but this is honestly never tested, so don't even worry about it. Now, these are not everyday diagnosis in the clinic. In fact, together they affect something like one in every 35,000 people. So they're quite rare in practice. However, they're very common in exams, because they're one of those classic syndromes that tie several organ systems together, and test makers love that. Now, the big problem for the boards with these syndromes really is remembering which combination of tumors goes with which men. Once you have this down-solving, this case becomes a matter of practice. So that's where our classic trick of the piece and Ms comes in. So the trick is quite simple. It's just a basic progression. As we go from men 1 to men 2A to men 2B, we start with a lot of piece, with three piece to be exact, and then we start losing piece and gaining Ms. This way, men 1 has three piece, zero Ms, men 2A has two piece, one M, and men 2B has just one P and two Ms. It's really that simple. And yes, we'll plug in what each P and M stands for as we go through the syndromes, but just keep this general structure in mind as a reference to avoid getting lost throughout the video, okay? Now, let's start with men 1. So with men 1, we have three piece, zero Ms. Why three piece? Because men 1 gives you three major tumors that all start with P. These are one, parathyroid. Most patients get primary hyperparathyroidism. Two, pancreatic. Here, we mainly refer to gastronomas, causing Solinger-Ellison syndrome, and insulinomas. And finally, three, which is pituitary adenomas, classically prolactinomas. So if you see a clinical vignette where someone has hypercosmia from a possible primary hyperparathyroidism, recurring pecti ulcers or refractory girth from a gastronoma, plus some mention of a pituitary mass or maybe galacturia, your brain should definitely be thinking, okay, P, P, P, hey, three piece. That's definitely men 1. Now, let's move on to men 2A. Here, we lose one P and gain one M. So we end up with two piece, one M. The P's in men 2A include the same primary hyperparathyroidism as before, but we also add a new P for theochromocytoma. The new M on the other hand is for a medullary thyroid carcinoma. These, in case you don't know, is an unusual thyroid tumor of castitonium producing C cells. And it's one of the highest yield concepts in this whole topic. Why? Because most of the time when we see thyroid cancer, we see either papillary or follicular carcinomas. Medullary is an unusual pathology. And although it's not pathognomonic for men, it should really make you aware that a men syndrome might be underneath this patient's presentation and make you pay close attention to other potential tumors. So to sum up, if a patient has hypercosmia from the primary hyperparathyroidism, sweating, palpitations, headaches from the pheochromocytoma, and the question mentions anything related to a medullary thyroid carcinoma, you can be pretty sure you have a men 2A syndrome in your hands. Now finally, the easiest one of the bunch, men 2B. Here we also lose another P and gain another M. So we end up with just one P and two M's. And the first P and the first M are shared with the previous syndrome, because the first P is from pheochromocytoma and the first M is from medullary thyroid carcinoma. So as you can see, men 2 syndromes are quite similar in this regard. The true differentiating factor is the last M, which stands for both mucosal neuromas and marfinoid body habitus. Mucosal neuromas are just benign nerve tumors that develop on mucous membranes, and marfinoid body habitus refers to a tall, thin patient with long extremities. And this is really what I want you to pay attention in clinical vignettes, because this is what helps you score three points in the exam. If you see the description of a patient who is tall, thin with long extremities, plus something that suggests endocrine tumors, you're most likely dealing with men 2B. It's one of the easiest ways to spot a men 2B diagnosis. So be on the lookout for that. Perfect. Now, before we jump into some practice cases, let me give you a rapid fire of three extra high yield facts that often show up in the USMLE regarding men. One, all men's syndromes are autosomal dominant. Two, men 1 is caused by imitation in a tumor suppressor gene called menin, which is actually pretty easy to remember because men, menin. And three, men 2 syndromes have an activating mutation in a very, very important proto oncogene called red. This is irresponsible for the medullary thyroid carcinomas and it's a favorite in board questions. With that said, let's move on to some practice cases. By the way, accessing these types of practice cases in the tutorial is super easy. You just go to the concept page of the topic you're starting, you hit start, and that's it. You're directed to a selection of cases that are specific to that topic. So let's solve a couple of those. Feel free to pause and read each case thoroughly as I'll go straight to the feedback, okay? Let's go ahead with the first one. All right, so here we have a 25 year old man who comes in because of several things. For one, you notice a lump in the front of his neck that's been getting bigger. So probably something thyroid related, but not very specific, right? However, he also has occasional episodes of anxiety with a pounding headache, racing hard, sweating, and hypertension. All of that suggests what? Exactly, a theochromocytoma. Now, he described a stall with lung extremities, which is probably a way of telling you he has marfanoid body habitus. Exactly, and as we learned just a minute ago, the only men syndrome that has a marfanoid body habitus is men2b. But in this case, they're not asking about the men diagnosis. They're asking about which type of thyroid cancer this patient most likely has. And the correct option is, of course, medullary carcinoma. Awesome, let's move on to the next one. Okay, so now we have a 16 year old boy with a similar presentation. Pounding headaches, just fluttering, excessive sweating, tachycardia, hypertension, again, a classic theochromocytoma. Furthermore, the elevated levels of metanephrines and non-metanephrines confirm the catecholamine excess. However, there's something different about this case because here there's a history of calcium oxalate kidney stones. What does this suggest? It suggests a primary hyperparathyroidism, right? I mean, calcium oxalate stones can be caused by several ideologies, but in this case, given the context, it's probably hyperparathyroidism. So then the question is, which men syndrome has both primary hyperparathyroidism and theochromocytoma? And the answer is, of course, men 2A. And as you already know, in this syndrome, we would also suspect a higher risk of medullary thyroid carcinoma, which is probably the tumor behind the maternal family history of thyroid related cancer death. Now, which mutation is behind this syndrome? Well, the answer is, of course, an activating mutation in the red proto oncogene, a super, super important high yield concept to always keep in mind regarding these syndromes. Now, as you just saw, a huge part of getting these questions right is training your eye to recognize the classic clinical pictures of theochromocytoma, primary hyperparathyroidism, gastronomas, insulinomas, mucosal neuromas, all of that. And yes, we briefly reviewed the presentation of a few of these, but if you really wanna master how all of these tumors present, Lectureo is a great way to do it. In Lectureo, you can watch concise video lectures by experts, read focused concept pages, practice with tons of USMLE-style questions like the ones we just solved, reinforce everything with quizzes, and even turn concept pages into custom podcasts or flashcards. If you're interested in any of that, click the link in the description to learn more. That was everything for this video. Thanks for your time, and I'll see you in the next one.