Hi, My name is Jared Rovny, I’ll be your guide through physics, sometimes perceived as one of the more challenging of the hard sciences. And so for that reason many students especially students in the medical field ask me why do I need this why do I need to be studying physics if I’m going into medicine. And so briefly I’m gonna cover some important reasons I think that this will be a useful thing for you, something that you can take with you in the future. And then, what we’re gonna do for the rest of this introduction is first get a quick overview of the entire course, the topics we’re gonna be looking at and why we’ll be looking at them. And then at the end of this introduction. before we’re getting into the actual physical content, we’re going to go over some key skills that will be very useful to you as you’re working any of these problems that we’re going to cover or as you go through an exam setting or something for the future. The first are we studying physics. Why does somebody who’s going to go into medicine need to know physics. I’m gonna briefly cover 3 reasons that I think are really good reasons that you should be paying close attention in your physics course. First, for historical reasons you should understand that physics’s played a huge role in the medical sciences and the kinds of technology people’ve been able to come up with and understand using regress physical methods and quantitative methods to come up with all sort of technology from MRI to PET scans to X-rays and many things that you’ll be seeing and using. And for that reason, it’s very important to be able to understand what these instruments are telling you and how to interpret the physics behind what you see so that you can actually give a proper interpretation to the results and that brings me to the second point which is that physics is actually practical in the actual medical room. When you’re looking at a patient who has any number of issues, everything about that patient is a physical system. The blood flowing through their vein is going to follow the fluid laws we discuss, as well the air going in and out of their lungs. Even the mechanical structure of their bones and the kind of stresses that they feel. From this or that thing, this or that reason or injuries. All follow physical laws. For that reason, even right in front of your patient, it’s important to know some of the basic mechanics and the basic laws of physics that that person’s body and yours and mine and everybody’s has always following And finally, one of the most important reasons to really work hard at physics and to understand what we’re gonna discuss is that the logical structure that we’re going to approach physics with will be very very useful in many other fields. Physics is important in a particular way, in a peculiar way different from many other academic subjects in which you’re given a lot of information and then you just have to reiterate that information in maybe an exam or something In physics, it’s different, we’re not going to do that. We will give you a lot of information but the idea will be you’ll be ask questions to which you do not know the answer. And this is very jarring for student sometimes initially. So it’s good to know and to expect that this will be the case . They will ask questions and we don’t know the answer to those questions. And even I when I’m going over problems with students or with colleagues, I never know the answer to the questions beforehand. That’s not how we solve them. We solve them because what we’ve done in physics is to build a logical structure, a way to proceed when you met with something intimidating and frightening even, that your first reaction and the first rule for any physics problem is to not panic. And so that will be our guiding principle as we’ll meet something that might look intimidating. We’ll start at the beginning, proceed logically, not panic, and solve the problems and that mindset will be very useful to you I hope, as you’re going to further disciplines. So with that, let’s get started. We’re gonna, first as I said do an overview but it’ll be important as we go that you’re be able to know what we might have at the top right are some labels, some important labels for you that you’ll be able to help bookmark your studies with as we go so you can see, go highlight things that are important during an exams, or highlight important definitions that you might wanna write down or look over and refer to in the future. We’re walking through a lot of examples and so I always, always encourage you to try to look at the example yourself first and pause if you need to and give them a shot because even if you give it a quick try you’ll learn far far more from, when I do it if you try to tackle it first yourself. And then finally, we will be covering a number of equations, which it’s not something you want to memorize all the time but you'll certainly want to understand how to interpret these equation and so if you see an equation and the letters you don’t always understand each letter, take the time to really understand what the letters mean because then you may not have the equation in your head all the time but the principle behind that equation will always be with you and you’ll be able to recall that in the future with far more ease than if you remember the equation by its letters.