Let's put your nephrology knowledge to the test. Ready? In this trivia challenge, we'll cover four key areas: anatomy, laboratories, pathology, and renal pharmarmacology. Each area includes three questions, one easy, one medium, and one hard, worth one, two, or three stars. You'll have a moment to think before we reveal the correct answer, along with a short explanation from Lecturio's medical content. Keep score as you go and discover how strong your foundation in neurology really is. Let's get started. Urine passes from the renal pill into which structure first. Here we see one of those renal pyramids with its apex projecting to the renal sinus. We have a base, a nice broad flat base of the renal pyramid and we have an apex and here there is an opening called the renal pillar and that is where urine passes into what are known as minor kalouses. How many major calluses does a typical kidney have? If we have a slightly closer look, we can see that the renal pyramid renal pillar gives rise to those minor kalouses that begin collecting the urine. One, two or three of these minor kalouses can actually drain into a major kix and the kidney will have about three or four of these major kalouses with each of those major kalouses receiving two, three or four minor kalouses. Which sequence correctly describes the arterial blood flow from the renal artery toward the renal pyramids? A closer looks at how these blood vessels work around the renal pyramids. So here we have a segmental artery passing between the renal pyramids. It gives these interlobar arteries that run between the renal pyramids. They're running through the renal columns that extension of cortex that pass between the renal pyramids. [snorts] Once they get there, they give these arua arteries that run around the base of the renal pyramids. And here again, we can see some smaller interlobo arteries running through the segments and the parankma, the substance of the kidney to supply the various pieces of tissue. Serum create 9 is inversely proportional to which of the following? [bell] It's freely filtered across the glomemeilus and it's neither reabsorbed nor metabolized. That's important because we can use that to assess kidney function. However, you have to keep in mind it's inversely proportional to the GFR. Meaning that if I have a very high creatinine, my GFR is quite low. Normal total protein excretion in urine over 24 hours is typically just to remind ourselves. Normal quantity of protein in the urine is typically less than 150 milligs over a 24-hour period of time. A rise in serum create 9 from 0.7 to 1.1 millig per deciliter most likely reflects. If you see on the Y ais serum creatinine is located there in milligrams per deciliter and on the X-axis it's GFR in mills per minute. So for example if I have a patient who has a serum creatine of 0.7 that then increases to 1.1 millig per deciliter it can reflect nearly a 40 mil per minute loss in GFR. A 29-year-old woman is noted to have microscopic hematuria and two plus positive dipstick proteinura on screening labs for a life insurance policy. It was confirmed on a repeat ur analysis 3 months later. Her serum creatinine is normal. What's more likely the diagnosis through the history and see if we have some clues to our diagnosis. So in our first case of our woman who's going for her life insurance policy, she has a history of microscopic hematia and proteinura and it's sustained over time because when she rechecked her labs at 3 months time, she also had hematia. So that's really suggestive of chronic kidney disease in terms of that there's clinical damage to the kidney. A patient with serum creatinine 4.2 milligs per deciliter and an acute increase of 0.6 6 milligrams per deciliter meets criteria for finally stage three where patient serum creatinine is increased three to four times that of normal or a serum creatinine greater than 4 milligrams per deciliter um with at least an acute increase of at least 0.5 millig per deciliter and these patients often times are anuric. >> A simple retention cyst in an adult may require needle aspiration primarily to distinguish it from [bell] simple retention cysts. These are the most common cysts of adults. [snorts] What was the most common cyst of a child? Renal dysplasia. Good. May it produce hemateria and requires needle aspiration to distinguish it from RCC. That's important. >> Which diuretic class is more potent than thazy diuretics? Now in the pink boxes you'll see we've got carbonic and hydrates inhibitor. That's a type of diuretic. You'll see in another box lube diuretic closer to the bottom more in the medulla where we have the box located. You've got thioides at the top and potassium sparing diuretics over on the right. Okay, we have those there because it's just kind of a reminder to let you know that wherever these diuretic works, that kind of let us know how strong or how potent these drugs are going to be. The closer you are to the glomemeilus, the stronger the effect. So loop diuretics are stronger than thyide diuretics. Thyide diuretics are going to have a bigger impact as far as fluid loss than potassium sparing diuretics. No. >> Which medication can cause tubular toxicity leading to AKI? We talked about how amoglycosides and amphoterasin can actually cause tubular toxicity and medications like asycllover can cause crystal precipitation. When adjusting a medication dose for reduced renal function using creatinine clearance, dividing by 100 milll per minute represents. Now why do we divide it by 100 ms per minute? That's because the creatinin the perfect creatinin clearance of a patient is going to be estimated at 100. That's not always 100% accurate. Uh but just just for sake of calculating, that's how we do it. So if your creatinin clearance is 66 ms per minute, what we're essentially saying is is that you have about 66% renal function or renal clearance. >> And that's a wrap. How many stars did you earn? No matter your level, keep strengthening your expertise with Lecturio, your all-in-one study companion for success in clinical practice. Drop your score in the comments and let us know which area you want us to quiz you on next.