Do you think you've mastered neurology? Let's put your knowledge to the test. >> This image outlines the clinical features of Parkinson plus syndromes labeled by column. Each column corresponds to a different syndrome. Match each number in the image to the correct diagnosis. They're all parkinsonisms. So all four of these conditions present with brady kynesia, rigidity and postural instability. With louisibody dementia, we see early dementia as a prominent feature in those patients. So dementia begins within one year of the development of parkinsonian symptoms. We can also see hallucinations in these patients and neurolleptic sensitivity is common. We use neurolleptics to manage some of the symptoms we can see when patients are hallucinating or agitated and these patients will develop severe sensitivity and become agitated and confused and may need hospitalization as a result of initiation of neurolptics. Next, multiple system atrophy. The key features to this syndrome is early autonomic dysfunction. So we think about orthostasis, erectile dysfunction and incontinence and early findings uh any of those three findings early in the course of the Parkinsonism should prompt the consideration for multiple system atrophy. Next let's talk about progressive superonuclear palsy. The key things we see there are twofold. One is downgaze impairment. So these patients have early vertical downgaze pausy. They can't look down. As a result they have frequent falls and we see falling. In Parkinson's disease falls are late and PSP falls are early. This is also an axial ainetic rigid Parkinsonism. So patients have difficulty moving and they are very very rigid often in the axial musculature um that controls our posture and axial tone. patients may have other brain stem symptoms, dysphasia or oral diskynesas um or dysphonia. And then lastly, cortico basil degeneration. This is a really unique and kind of strange uh uniquely strange uh syndrome. Here we see that it's prominently asymmetric. Patients begin with very asymmetric symptoms and we see a few things. Araxia, alien hand and cognitive deficits and this owes to its predilction for the parietal loes. Araxia is motor planning. So these patients are able to move, but they just can't form the plan for how to do it and what they need to do.