This is an important table. And before we begin though, let me set up the topic. First and foremost, understand what this is saying. Do not breeze past the topic. It's effective circulating volume. Stop there. You see that? Effective circulating volume. What does that mean to you? Is that the ICF? No. Is it part of the ECF? Yes. I said part of the ECF. So, what part is this? What's the effective circulating component of your ECF? Plasma. Good. Right. So, here all we're dealing with is the plasma compartment. When we say effective circulating volume, is that a typo? It says, does that equal an extra fluid volume? No, it's not. It's not a typo. It's absolutely accurate. You can have a decrease in effective circulating volume and not at all be equal to the decrease in extracellular fluid ECF and we'll go through examples where that becomes very very true because what does ECF mean to you? ECF is a combination of plasma and interstitial. For example, is it possible that you might have an increase in ECF and a decrease in effective circulating volume? That's a rhetorical question. Of course, example, encotic pressure is decrease secondary to cerosis. Congestive heart failure resulting in increased hydrostatic pressure. What did I just say? Liver has been damaged. You don't have enough protein, decreased ensotic pressure. Example number one, clinically. Example number two, congestive heart failure, hydrostatic pressure. And so therefore where is the fluid moving from the effective circulating volume which is now decreased into the interstitium. So what happened to ECF? It's increased. Now do you see it clinically? Because if you just rush past this all you've done is either not paid attention or you've just memorized it and it it's it doesn't stick. Now on this table we'll go through each one of these examples so that you clearly see this. The overall theme for this table as you see is decreased effective circulating volume. Let's take a look at the first column here. Decrease extracellular fluid volume. take a look at the uh the concept uh for this slide which is the difference between we'll call ECV effective circulating volume ECV and ECF extracellular fluid volume. Okay, I'm going to keep repeating this so you're not confused. The entire theme for this table is What is this? The plasma only. The plasma only. So here let's say that you do have volume depletion due to hemorrhage. Got into an accident and there's been a laceration in which there's massive loss of blood. What happens to uh extracellular fluid? Decreased. See the first column that's ECF. But what about ECV? Obviously decreased as well because you've lost all blood hemorrhagically externally. There it is on the floor. You see it? Hello blood. Oh my goodness. I miss you so much. So now that's hemorrhage. Is that dramatic enough for you? So you have a decrease in ECF and you have a decrease in ECV. Next point in normal ECF and decreased ECV. What is going on here? This is sepsis. In sepsis we're going to organism from microbiology. For example, you have a female who's pregnant and her urethra is rather small. She's now exposed and she's vulnerable to infections such as E.coli. Here comes the E.coli and it starts mountain climbing up the female's urethra. Pleasant topic. Eventually at some point maybe this pollinphritis, oh my goodness, this E.coli and the urinary tract infection and pylonritis wasn't properly discovered ends up resulting with septasemia eventually result in sepsis. This gram negative organism with lipopolysaccharide I'm going through this quickly because this is micro. the lipopolyaccharide and such then brings about all these cytoine changes in which what then happens to your blood vessel whoop vasoddilation vasoddilation and so now you'll have normal excracellular fluid volume but then you have a decreased ECV because things are moving through this so quickly there's every possibility that some of this flu fluid some of this fluid might just just be able to move through increased permeable capillaries but overall although with the normal ECF clinically with a decreased in effective circulating volume. Let's go to the third column here. This is the one that I mentioned to you earlier with CHF cerosis and nephroic. Put all three together. Congestive heart failure. What's my problem? I want you to focus on right-sided heart failure to make it easier for us. And I'm going to be more specific here because you must understand the only time that you'd find peripheral edema and positive JVD is what kind of heart failure? Rightsided heart failure. Are we clear? Don't ever miss that question. So right-sided heart failure, what are you going to do? Increase hydrostatic pressure. Where's this fluid moving from? from the plasma which we call what effective circulating volume into the interstitium which is part of your ECF. So therefore can we clearly see as to how you're going to rapidly I mean literally you can see the patient with pitting edema you can clearly see as to how fluid is accumulating in the interstitium and excess ECF is increasing then how can you confirm that the effective circulating volume is decreased because who's being released from the jtoigma apparatus of the kidney renin renin renin how's that possible the effective circulating volume is decreased inreased. Talk about CHF. What about cerosis? We've done this a few times. If the liver has been knocked out, then what happens to protein content? You never produce the abdomen. What happens to encotic pressure? It's decreased. Where's my fluid? Good. Into the interstitium. How can you confirm that? Look at that patient with cerosis. Drank too much alcohol for years and years and years. And what happened? Oh, I used to be in shape once upon a time. But now, let's say you're a rock star and maybe perhaps I'm just being stereotypical here and I went through a period where I was drinking quite a bit and then all of a sudden now I sing like this. I can't even see my feet anymore because of my sites, right? Cerosis. What does this mean? Increase in extracellular fluid volume. Are we clear? And then what about nefertic? Most common cause of nefertic in a child? You will tell me minimal change disease. Hm. What do you know about that child? Losing lots of protein. Losing lots of protein. How much? The magic number greater than 3 and 1/2 g of protein per day. H. What happens to your uh encodic pressure? It decreases. Where's my fluid in the interstitial? Huh? [clears throat] Could this table be any more clinical than what it is now? Do you see the clear difference between effective circulating volume and ECF? If you haven't, you do now. Let's move on. Quickly go through some important physiologic changes and give a clinical application with the diary box. First and foremost, this box that we're seeing, let's set it up for you. X-axis, you ever done it like this? Do it now because your life becomes so much easier. The X-axis represents the volume. The y-axis represents the osmalerity. Clear? We have a line in the middle there. There's a barrier and that is separating the ECF and ICF. You tell me what membrane that is. Close your eyes. Be careful what comes out of your mouth. Okay? You're thinking one thing, but something else might either come out of your mouth or you might accidentally choose it as being answer choice. Doesn't happen all the time. You go back and take a look at a question and you're like, why in the world did I choose that answer? You know [laughter] what I mean? So, let's avoid all of that. be deliberate with everything that you do. So that barrier and that membrane that you're seeing there, ladies and gentlemen, is which one? Is that the cell membrane or is that the calper membrane? That is going to be your cell membrane. Good. And tell me about what is permeant to uh really water. That's about it. H uh sodium. No, not the cell membrane. Are you kidding me? But Dr. Roger, sodium channels. Okay. Would you stop being so hard on me? All right. Yeah, that sodium channel is not open. Understand that if that sodium channel is never open, you're not permeant to sodium. Clear. It is that clear. It should be has to be. Otherwise, your life becomes much more difficult. And you don't like that. [snorts] Next, we're going to go through volume contraction. Now, the steps that we had initiated a little while ago was uh the following. So far, the first thing that you want to do always is always take a look at ah what kind of change did I have in my plasma compartment which is part of your ECF and if that plasma compartment has decreased for whatever reason let's take a look at diarrhea a wonderful topic so when there's loss of fluid h you have ECF volume decreasing point number one let me show this to you here The original black square that you're seeing as being a solid line represents normal kind of like what we started off originally with the control. The dash line that you're seeing is going to be the change here specifically in diarrhea. I do not recommend that you memorize this. You use these boxes as a conceptual tool in your head so that when an attending or when you're doing your rounds in the hospital or you're taking a board exam that when people pose questions to you, you have this image in your head so that you can quickly come up with the proper management of your patient. So in diarrhea you've lost obviously fluid. your ECF volume is going to decrease and what axis here represents the volume the xaxis. Do you see ladies and gentlemen that on the x-axis for the ECF its volume has decreased? That's your step number one always. Next, what are you going to do? Well, depending as to what kind of loss that you've had, you're going to have either an increase, a decrease, or no change with ECF osmalerity. Where's mimmarity on this box [snorts] graph? It's on the y- axis. You'll notice, ladies and gentlemen, with diarrhea that [snorts] there's basically no change on the y-axis. So your ECF osmalerity remains normal. Adult diarrhea is what we're doing here. And so therefore, the type of fluid that you've lost here without any change in ECF osmalerity, what does it have to be? What can it loss? Good. Isotonic loss. Okay. So, we'll go through the details. All I'm doing here is just setting up the picture so that when the time is right and we go through details, we'll be able to go through the material efficiently. Let's go to the middle one. In the middle one, our overall theme for this section is volume contraction. And by volume contraction, where do you begin first? Always it'll be the ECF. Now, you'll go as far as you need to so you get your answer right. So let's go a little bit further here. Say there's water and deprivation. What does that mean? That means that the individual is deprived of water. Why? Well, I'll give you example. For example, uh if there's psychoggenic polyypia or primary polyypipssia, what's one of the first steps that you'll do conservatively? You deprive the patient of your water. But what if your patient crazy? I'm seeing things. I'm hearing things. Auditory hallucination. That's a psychosis, right? That's called psychoggenic polyypsia. that patient feels as though that he or she needs to be drinking all of the time. Do a water deprivation test. What's my point with the water deprivation test? What the first thing that's going to happen? I'm not drinking water anymore. So therefore, step number one, ECF volume is going to decrease. You're depriving your patient of water. ECF volume decreases number one. So what what can you expect your ECF osmalerity to do? As long as everything's normal, your your ECF osmarity should increase. Now take a look at that dash line in the middle picture with water deprivation. Do you see the dash line and it's ECF? Where is my osmalerity y-axis? You see it rising. So now you have ECF osmalerity which is now increased. That's step number two always. Now who's going to be influenced or who's going to be affected? The ICF. Tell me about the movement of water across what membrane is this cell membrane? The movement of water across a cell membrane it goes from what kind of uh movement diffusion it'll be from a place of low solute low solute to high solute correct that's osmosis where is there high solute right now in the ECF compartment how can you confirm that ECF osmalerity what happened to your patient water deprivation so far so good you're asking right questions and you're coming up with the with with the proper solutions so therefore ICF the water is being pulled pulled out into the ECF. What's step number three here? It's the fact that ICF volume is decreased. How can you confirm that? Now, take a look at ICF. Take a look at the x-axis and take a look at the dash line. You'll notice that the ICF volume has now diminished. Step number three, as ICF and its fluid is shifting into the ECF, what is your fourth and final step which we are now covering for the first time? It's the fact that ICF osmarity has increased. How can you confirm it? Take a look at the dash line and on the y-axis you find that to be risen as well. Okay. So what's my steps? ECF volume ECF osmarity is safe volume osmarity prime example water deprivation. We needed all four here. Why didn't we need all this for diarrhea? Cuz you lost what kind of fluid? Isotonic fluid. Diarrhea out out it comes from your butt, right? And so therefore isotonic loss. All that you've affected is ECF volume. Stop. That's all you have to do. Why create more work for yourself? So be smart about how you approach each patient, each question. Let's move on to adrenal insufficiency. Okay. Now, this one's a little trickier, but I know you can do this. In fact, you have no choice. So adrenal insufficiency. What then happens here? Good. Are you picturing this? Who's been knocked out? The adrenal cortex. Primary adrenal insufficiency. Give me the proper clinical name. Mr. Addison. Right. Addison's disease is what this is. Good. And Addison's disease. Adrenals are not working properly. If you're dealing with volume, would you tell me what hormone is in play? This has nothing to do with cortisol. Okay, let that go right now. When the time is right, of course, we'll talk further about that. Right now it's aldoststerone is not present right [snorts] the entire entire adrenal cortex has been destroyed how maybe autoimmune disease okay maybe idiopathic but what have you so now you don't have aldoststerone work with me do you remember all those discussions of aldoststerone that we've had up until now that's going to come into play in adrenal insufficiency don't have aldoststerone so therefore down in the collecting duct you cannot reabsorb sodium and so therefore it remains within my collecting duct so therefore what are you losing Lots of sodium. Lots of sodium is being lost. And along with sodium, what is it going to do? It's going to pull water out, too. Fascinating, huh? Fascinating. So, you're losing all this volume. What's your first step? Always ECF volume. H. Take a look. Where's my volume? X-axis. Good. Take a look at ECF. ECF volume is decreased. Excellent. Excellent. Stop. Stop. Stop. Stop. Why? I need you to think. Okay, please think. Watch this. You're losing lots of sodium. H where? Into the toilet. There it is. Here's my sodium being flushed down the toilet. It's not in my plasma. So, tell me about your plasma osmalerity. When you're flushing your sodium down your toilet, you're about to step number two, ECF osmalerity. Why is it decreased? Because you're flushing your sodium down the toilet. You see that? Interesting. Compare this to water deprivation. Compare this to diarrhea. We'll compare this to a lot. [snorts] So here you're losing your urine. Fine. You're losing lots of sodium. You find that your ECF osmiller is decreased. Take a look at the dash line. Please take a look at the y-axis. You see that to be decreased as well. We're at step number two. You tell me what was our third step. ICF volume. Good. So now you have a decrease in ECF osmarity. Which way does the water want to go? Where is there more solute in the ICF? Right. Good. Water is going to shift into ICF. So what happens to ICF volume? Now DC asked how things are becoming easier. ICF volume has increased. How can you confirm that? Take a look at the X-axis and you find the dash line. The ICF volume has increased. That's step number three. And then finally, as more volume and fluid is in my ICF, what will happen to ICF osmarity? Good. Y-axis, it's decreased. You see this? If you firmly implant these concepts of these boxes with those four steps every single time, there's no way there's no way at least you'll be able to get the foundation and then from that you can administer proper uh management. Now at the bottom portion here is going to be volume expansion. Obviously we're not going to spend as much time going through every step. So I'm going to fly through this but you'll be able to stick with me. You ready? Now the only way you want to do this is you've you have understood everything up until now. Let's do infusion of strict strict isotonic saline. Isotonic saline. What's the only thing that's going to happen? Here's your patient. Uh what did he or she suffer from? Hypoalmia. And as soon as that patient comes in, what are you going to give? Isotonic saline IV fluid. H step number one volume increase. You're done. You're done. I don't even care about the other steps right now. Let it go. Let's go to uh high NaCCl intake. What's this? Maybe a patient taking antibiotics. What is NaCCl? No, no, no. Listen. High salt only. What the difference between high salt versus the first one? Take a look at the terminology. Isotonic saline is IV fluids. Strict NaCCl is only salt tablets. If all that you're doing is strictly putting salt into your system, what are you going to do immediately? ECF osmalerity, bam, increased. Thus, it's going to pull the water out. And that's what you're seeing here. You're done. Let's move on to SADH. SADH could be a little tricky, but you're good. Let me give you some examples. Let's your patient has had a posterior pituitary issue in which there is producing too much ADH. Maybe a patient has small cell lung cancer. Huh? Remember small cell lung cancer of what? The lung. And you're releasing too much ADH paranoplastically. When you have too much ADH, what then happens? Step number one, pulling too much water out of your collecting duct strictly. What kind of water? What do you What kind of water is it? Free or obligated, please? Free. If you're pulling water out, what happens to ECF volume? Step number one, increased. Step number two, ECF osmarity decreased. Step number three, what is going into the cell? ICF volume increased. Step number four, ICFarity decreased. You must do it that quickly and you will get there if you haven't already. Fantastic. Let's move on. Now things become after that things become uh more interesting clinically. Okay. What I what I wish for you to focus upon here is the same box the same issues in terms of u x-axis y axis. I'm not going to cover that again. But what I wish to cover is D5W. Okay. What does that mean to you and when would you even think about giving this? D5W is strict pure water. Dr. Raj, it says D5W. How can that be pure water? Listen, clinically, this is equal to pure water. The doc, why don't you just give pure water, Dr. Raj? Because listen, you got this. If you put pure water into your patient, oh my goodness, the water is going to do what? It's going to equilibrate throughout the total body water really quick. What are you worried about when you put too much water strictly? It's going to go straight into the cell. Why don't you just kill your patient? Huh? Just resign from your job. Leave now. Never practice medicine. Please don't do that. So, you're not going to infuse pure water. But say that you have a situation that you need to give hypotonic fluid D5W. What is it going to do? Listen, this is dextrose 5% with water. What's dextrose? Think of it as being like glucose. [snorts] Listen to this. You've done this in physio. Let's do it now clinically. If you have glucose at first, if you infuse it and you along with it attached to water. So this is pretty much obligated water and you want to give hypotonic fluid for whatever reason in your patient. And so now you want to you want to delay that water from entering the cell, don't you? D5W will help you do that. D5W, that 5% dextrose is just enough in which it will delay the entry, take a look, of that water into the ICF so that you do not have swelling and bursting of your you don't want fireworks in your plasma. Trust me. So you don't want to have excess swelling and D5W accomplishes that exact task. Now I have ICF contraction. So this would be what kind of issue giving condition in which your volume from the ICF is being pulled out into the ECF. Take a look at hyperremia or excess let's say glucose uncontrolled diabetes malitis. [music] >> [music]