Talk about type two. With type two diabetes, the basic characteristics, epidemiology, usually later in life, greater than 30, these patients will be obese as far as you're concerned and a major major genetic family history component here. The pathophys that you want to know for sure priority would be the fact that the insulin receptors are resistant. Do you remember those insulin receptors with bait with two beta subunits with autophosphillation tyrroscen kynise? Somewhere in that apparatus of the membrane, the insulin receptor isn't working. Where's my glucose? Decreased peripheral glucose uptake resulting in hyperglycemia. The beta cell dysfunction is quite interesting. Let me walk you through this. [clears throat] So, initially the patient becomes obese. Okay, gradually you don't become obese overnight. As they go on to become over obese, the insulin receptors are working less and less and less, which means that now the patient is increasing their glucose step by step by step over time. In type two diabetes, it's still possible that you have insulin in your pancreas. Correct? Yes. Therefore, with that hypoglycemia early on, do you think that your patient with type two diabetes might have hyperinsulinemia? Yeah. Lot of research, mind you, with this because that hyperinsulinemia can actually wreak havoc up and down the body. For example, take a look at the armpits of a patient with type two diabetes or the back of the neck of type 2 diabetes. And huh, you notice there's darkening of the skin. Niagra means dark aantosis means thickening, thickening of the keratinocytes, therefore giving you the presentation of dark skin underneath the armpits and maybe the back of the neck, maybe the insulin. In fact, there's a lot of evidence out there that that increased insulin early on in type two diabetes may then cause this perhaps even the atheroscerosis, maybe even the hypertension. insulin level increased. Now, do you understand this? If you did not follow my discussion just now, this becomes rather difficult. Early on, you can have increased levels of insulin, but at some point in time, what happens? While with the pancreas, you might exhaust all levels of insulin. What's your first step of management? Discipline, lifestyle modification, exercise, watch your diet. If that doesn't work, patients non-compliant, then you start thinking about oral hypoglycemic drugs. Worst case scenario, insulin complications. Ketoic acidosis is rare but can occur after stress such as surgery. Type two diabetes. The more common hypoglycemic emergency in type 2 diabetes is a hyper osmolar hypoglycemic state which can develop more insidiously. Pathology. Couple important things here. Fibrosis and honization. Fibrosis and halonization. fibrosis might be found in the pancreas. You can have an amaloid that we'll talk about in a little bit called amalain. And if you're thinking about type two diabetes and you're referring to what's known as arterolo sclerosis, arterio sclerosis, there are two kinds, you remember. Are you putting things together? Hyin arteroscerosis, hypoplastic arteryoscerosis. Which one is it that you find in type two diabetes and hypertension? Highlinin arteroloscerosis. Non-conventional type two diabetes similar to type two occurs in the young increasing in frequency mean to say that we're as we gain better understanding of diabetes malitis we actually find this as being increasing type of uh uh diagnosis genetically inherited this is important if it's one thing that you want to take out of this sometimes referred to as being modi modi stands for maturity onset of diabetes in the young m o d usually genetic proponent may usually develop type 2 diabetes. However, this is a heterogeneous disorder and depending on the underlying genetic cause, patients may present similar to type one. So therefore, do not confuse this with type 1 diabetes. Type 1 diabetes, young patient, autoimmune destruction of the pancreatic eyelet cells. type 1 diabetic, insulin is not going to be present. You're worried about hypoglycemia, your only method of treatment would be to give insulin here. However, gluccoinace could be a problem. Remember glucinise, one of the first enzymes in the glycolytic pathway, not the rate limiting enzyme, but the first enzyme. So, if gluccoinace is not present, then what happens? May result in hypoglycemia, non-conventional, and may then go on to develop type two diabetes. This is not present at all in type one. Could be insulin molecule production or secretion issues. But the big one that you want to take out of this is the first bullet point of glucinise non-conventional >> [music]