papapapa, naringpapapa,papapa,papapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapapa that lead to heart disease, you will understand how we make the diagnosis of heart disease, and you will understand the various therapies that we have in our hands that we can use in order to help the patient with heart disease. So let's start with something very basic. Let's start with the anatomy of the heart and the blood vessels. Now many of you, of course, receive hearts when you receive letters from friends or close intimate relations. At Valentine's Day, we see the heart, of course, the heart shape. Actually, the heart doesn't look anything like that. That's just a symbol for the heart. In fact, what you see here in this little diagram is a little bit more what the heart looks like. The heart is conical in shape with a rounded point, not a sharp point, and of course, it is a pump. It's a muscle pump that keeps the circulation continuously going in a circle. So what happens, of course, I think everybody knows is, the heart pumps the blood out full of oxygen and nutrients to the cells throughout the body, and then waste products are given to the blood. The blood returns to the lungs, a deep blue, and is then re-oxygenated, gets oxygen again, and pumped out to the body. There's a continuous circle going on of the circulation. Here's a diagram that shows you how the heart lies in the chest. Notice that it's not directly in the center of the chest. In fact, it's slightly to the left. In this view, of course, it looks like it's to the right, but if you were standing behind this person, where the heart bulges out would be the left. And you can see four points are marked on this skeleton with the heart drawn behind it, behind the ribs, of course, and the breastbone, which we call the sternum. You can see that there are four heart valves, and the points that are marked here are the places where we listen with our stethoscope when we want to hear that particular valve. So, and we're going to go over the names of the valves and where they're located, but just for introduction, you can see that there are the aortic valve, the pulmonic valve, the tricuspid valve, and the mitral valve. Now, here's a little diagram of the circulation. You can see it's made in two colors, blue for the blood that's returning to the right side of the heart. It's exhausted of its oxygen. It's carrying waste products, particularly carbon dioxide. Carbon dioxide will be given off in the lungs. Oxygen will be introduced to the red blood cells, and then they will get to the left side of the heart where they'll be pumped out to the body. So let's follow the circulation through the heart. You can see that there are two large veins here that drain into the right atrium. The superior vena cava drains the blood from the upper body. The inferior vena cava drains the blood from the lower body. They both empty into the right atrium, and then pass through the tricuspid valve into the right ventricle. They are pumped out through the pulmonic valve into the lungs, and then they return through pulmonary veins to the left atrium, and then across the mitral valve into the left ventricle, and the left ventricle pumps it out through the aortic valve to the aorta and to the whole body. What you see here is a small catheter working its way through the heart. We're going to talk more about that catheter. That's how we measure pressures and the flow, the amount of blood that the heart is pumping during a diagnostic catheterization. But again, of course, the blood is not exactly this color blue on the right side of the circulation. It's a little bit darker, and it's quite bright red on the arterial side. Now here is a more anatomically correct diagram, and there are a couple of points I want you to note about that. You'll still notice the superior vena cava, the inferior vena cava coming into the right atrium, draining the, if you will, deoxygenated or tired blood into the right atrium. You can see the tricuspid valve as the blood passes into the right ventricle, and then you can see it being pumped out into the pulmonary artery, still all in blue. What's of interest here is that the left ventricle is a lot thicker than the right ventricle. And in fact, their shapes are slightly different. Why is that? It's because they have very different functions. The pressure in the lung is quite low, so that the right ventricle functions like a bellows, like the blacksmith uses to create air for his fire that he's going to be melting the, and working on horseshoes, for example. So it produces large volumes of blood movement at low pressure. The left ventricle, of course, has to pump blood throughout the body. So it has to pump that blood at a much higher pressure. And consequently, the walls of the left ventricle are much thicker than the walls of the right ventricle. It's functioning not like a bellows, but rather like the piston in a car, a high pressure chamber that does a lot of pressure work, as opposed to the right ventricle, which does a lot of volume work at much lower pressure. Now, here we see the heart diagrammed in comparison to the chest x-ray. You can see on the right-hand side, this is a so-called frontal x-ray, like this. And then on the left-hand side, there is a lateral x-ray taken like that from the side. And what you can see are several things. First of all, again, notice that the heart is not in the center of the chest, but in fact is a little bit more in the left chest than the right chest. And the bulge that you see down in the left chest is actually the left ventricular outline. If you want to see the right ventricle, you have to look at the lateral view and you see it in front of the left ventricle. Now, people say, wait a minute, the heart actually has the right ventricle in front of the left ventricle. And in fact, that is exactly the case. We'll see that on some further x-rays and magnetic resonance image, which will show you that in fact, the right ventricle does lie in front, closer to the breast bone than the left ventricle, which lies a little bit behind. And you can get a hint of that from the two diagrams here, that are reflecting what you see in the chest x-rays below. Now, here is an MRI of the chest. What's at the top there is the front, the breast bone. And what's at the bottom of the picture is the spine. You can see a little area of the spinal vertebra there. And you can see the heart right in the middle there of the diagram labeled RV is the right ventricle and LV is the left ventricle. And you can see that the right ventricle is lying, in fact, in front, that is closer to the chest front wall compared to the left ventricle. And again, here is again the diagram showing you where the heart is located and also where the different points are that you can best hear with your stethoscope the sounds made by the four heart valves. We're going to talk about those in just a moment. But you see, there are areas on the little bit upper right chest, little bit upper left chest, lower right chest, and lower left chest. Let's talk a little bit about the parts of the heart. The heart, of course, is a muscle pump. So that's the most important part. But that's not the only part. Of course, you have to have valves to keep the blood flowing in the right direction. If, in fact, you didn't have valves, all the blood would just slosh back and forth within the heart. You have to have the valves to keep the blood flowing in the right direction. You also have electrical wiring. We're going to talk a lot more about this. But in fact, what triggers the contraction of the heart is an electrical signal that starts high in the right atrium of the heart with a little automatic pacemaker and passes right down through the heart muscle and results in contraction of the heart muscle when the electrical signal gets there. Of course, you also have to have arteries to supply the heart with oxygen and nutrients so it can work. In other words, the fuel line for the heart to put the fuel into the heart cells so they can contract. The veins are also important because they carry the tired blood, the blood that's lost its oxygen and some of its nutrients and is carrying waste products. It returns to the right atrium along with the superior and inferior vena cava to be circulated again from the right ventricle into the lungs to gain oxygenation and to give up its carbon dioxide. And then, of course, the entire heart is contained in a membrane, a very tough membrane called the pericardium that protects the heart, particularly, for example, from infections in the lungs should they occur. And it also keeps the heart in a nice shape so that it doesn't expand or too much when it's working. The important lesson here in anatomy is that the heart is a muscle pump, that it's going to continue to pump blood in a continuous circle through the body and that it is meticulously and beautifully adapted to do this. We will be talking about more detail of the various ways that the heart does this. So here's the diagram again that you saw before. Once more, to reiterate, venous blood comes back to the right atrium, through the tricuspid valve, to the right ventricle, out the pulmonary artery, back oxygenated blood comes back to the left atrium through the pulmonary veins, through the mitral valve, and then pumped out the aortic valve to the body. Well, let's look in a little more detail inside these various chambers. Here you see a diagram inside the right ventricle, and you can see, of course, it shows you the blood is blue. That's the deoxygenated blood. You can see the right atrium above the right ventricle, and you can see the pulmonary artery and the pulmonary valve below it. There are a variety of abnormalities that the heart can be found in infants. For example, the pulmonary valve can be stenotic or closed. It has to be fixed early in life. There can be holes in the heart. For example, a connection between the right and left ventricle where there should be none. All of these are the area of the pediatric cardiologist who can make those diagnoses very early in life, and often these days infants are operated on and have these abnormalities corrected. But the normal right ventricle, remember, will be separated from the left ventricle with a muscle septum that will prevent blood from the right side from getting onto the left side. When blood from the right side gets onto the left side, the patient actually has a faintly bluish tinge to themselves, and you will talk about that when we talk about physiology and diagnosis. Here we see a diagram of the right ventricle contracting, and as I said before, the right ventricle is working like a bellows. You'll see in the diagram on the left, that's the contracted right ventricle, and then on the right, you can see the filling right ventricle. It looks like a bellows, right? Just like the blacksmith's bellows that's used to heat up the fire beneath the horseshoes that the blacksmith is working on. The right ventricle, again, is thin-walled, much thinner walled than the left ventricle, because it pumps at a much lower pressure than the left ventricle. Here we see a diagram of blood that is passing through the heart and the different pressures in the different chambers. We're going to be talking a lot more about this when we come to the physiology component, but it's important to see right here on the left-hand side of the diagram, low pressure in the right atrium, then periodic high pressure followed by low pressure in the right ventricle. Then we see in the pulmonary artery, high pressure followed by not such low blood pressure, and then the pulmonary capillaries, which are a reflection of left atrial pressure, also a low pressure about the same as the minimal pressure in the pulmonary artery. We see that the blood passes through the heart starting at a very low pressure in the right atrium, the tricuspid valve opens, blood flows into the right ventricle, and it squeezes, and then you see the pressure going up for the right ventricle. And then when the pulmonary valve closes, the pressure falls again down to the baseline where the tricuspid valve opens again and blood flows into the right ventricle. Out in the pulmonary artery, when the pulmonary valve closes, the pressure no longer falls anymore, and you see a sort of baseline pulmonary artery pressure that's transmitted across to the pulmonary capillaries and eventually to the pulmonary veins and the left atrium. Here are the four heart valves. The ones in blue are the right-sided ones, of course, and the ones in red are the left-sided one. Let's take the one at the top of the diagram because that's the front of the heart, and that's the tricuspid valve. Tricuspid means three cusps, three components, and you can see that, right? You can see that there are three parts to the tricuspid valve. So the blood is now passing through the tricuspid valve into the right ventricle, and then there's going to be right ventricular contraction, squeeze, and the blood is going out the pulmonary artery. Look at the blue valve to the left. That's the pulmonary artery valve, and you'll notice it's open because the right ventricle is squeezing blood through it. That blood goes to the lungs as we talked about, gets oxygenated, picks up oxygen, comes back through the pulmonary veins to the left atrium, and then passes through the valve, the red circled valve on the right-hand side of the diagram. Notice that valve only has two cusps. So it is the only valve with two cusps. The other three valves have three cusps. The tricuspid valve, the pulmonic or pulmonary valve, the aortic valve all have three cusps. But the mitral valve, which is between the left atrium and the left ventricle, has only two cusps. In fact, it resembles its name for the bishop's mitre, which is the crown that the bishop wears in the Catholic Church, which basically has just two sides to it, resembling a little bit the mitral valve. Once the blood is in the left ventricle, the left ventricle contracts and the blood goes out the aortic valve. That's the one you see right in the center, and you'll notice it's also open. So what we're seeing here is right and left ventricular systole, that is squeeze, systole is squeeze, and you see that the pulmonary valve, pulmonic valve and the aortic valve are open, and blood is flowing respectively into the pulmonary artery through the pulmonic valve and into the aorta through the aortic valve. Now, I mentioned before that the heart has an electrical system. Indeed, it's the electrical system which is the trigger for mechanical contraction. Without the electrical system, the heart muscle will not contract. Each heart cell responds to the electrical activity by contracting. So where does this electrical activity start? It starts at the top of the atrium. There's a pacemaker, an automatic pacemaker, which can be influenced by adrenaline circulating or by nerves from the brain. It can accelerate or it can decelerate depending upon a variety of conditions which we'll be talking about later. But in any case, the impulse starts spontaneously, passes through a number of little fibers in the atrium into what you see that little bulb there. That's the AV node. It pauses there for a little bit. Why does it pause? Of course, you can't have the atria and the ventricle contracting at the same time. And if the impulse traveled rapidly through, you would have them contracting at the same time and the blood wouldn't be going anywhere. So there's a certain pause while the atria finish their mechanical contraction. And then the electrical activity passes down from that AV node, also called the bundle of his, down into the branches that are in the ventricle. And at that point, the ventricular muscle contracts. You can see below it a diagram of the electrocardiogram. The first wave is called the P wave. That's atrial contraction. And the big deflection is called the QRS. That's the ventricular contraction. And you can even see the heart sounds in there. With atrial contraction and ventricular contraction, you can see the first and second heart sounds. In fact, we record the electrical impulse passing through the heart with something called the electrocardiogram. I think most of you are well aware of this. I'm going to talk a lot more about this when we come to the diagnostic lecture. But in any case, here's a diagram that shows you six electrocardiographic leads. They're taken in the frontal plane. That is this plane right here. But they're taken from different angles. They're a little electrical biopsy from different angles around the heart. And we put all of this information together, as we'll talk about later. It helps us to diagnose specific forms of heart disease. It also tells us a lot about how well the wave of depolarization is passing through the heart. Are there abnormalities in the electrical conduction system? Or are there abnormalities in some of the minerals in the blood? For example, potassium. So again, let's talk a little bit about one of the other structures in the heart that's important. The coronary arteries. The coronary arteries are like the fuel line in your car. If you don't have a good open fuel line and gasoline doesn't get in or diesel fuel doesn't get in your motor, you know what happens. The motor doesn't function. The same is true about the heart. It needs oxygenated blood to nourish it and to enable it to continue to do its mechanical activity. And the heart is a remarkable organ. Remember, it beats constantly, has to continue beating, of course, if you want to stay alive, sometimes for many, many years, 80, 90 years, sometimes even 100 years. It's a remarkable strong muscle that is very resistant to injury except when certain diseases occur, but in fact often tries to do its best job even when injured. So there are, of course, two main coronary arteries. There's the left coronary artery and the right coronary artery. You say to me, wait, wait, wait a minute. My uncle had a triple coronary bypass. Where's the third coronary artery? The third coronary artery occurs because the left coronary artery branches early on after its origin. It branches into the left anterior descending coronary artery and the left circumflex coronary artery. So what are we talking about here? We're talking then about two main arteries that start, but one very quickly divides into two main branches. So that's how we have the three coronary arteries that are talked about. We're going to come back and talk more about the coronary arteries, and I'm going to show you some pictures from a CAT scan. But let's take a look inside the heart for a moment. I wanted to just reiterate the return of venous blood to the heart. What you're seeing here is a little diagram of the inside of the right atrium. And you'll notice that there are three circles, and these three circles represent the venous drainage coming into the heart. The highest one, the one that's up top, is the entrance of the blood from the superior vena cava. That blood enters the right atrium and drains the venous blood from the upper part of the body. Now, if you look at the second one just below that, that's the one from the inferior vena cava that's draining blood from the bottom of the body. So what's the opening there on the right-hand side? That's the coronary sinus. That's the heart's venous system coming back in. Because, of course, the heart's getting oxygenated blood. It has to have venous return to the heart, so it returns also to the right atrium. So the upper part of the body, the lower part of the body, and the heart all drain into the right atrium. And then, of course, they pass through the tricuspid valve into the right ventricle. They're pumped to the lung, where the blue blood becomes red as it takes on oxygen and gives off carbon dioxide. So here we are, back to the coronary arteries. And this is actually a CAT scan that shows you. It's colorized, by the way. These are artificial colors put in to make it look realistic. But in fact, you can see very clearly the coronary arteries here. You can see the right coronary artery, the left anterior descending, and the left circunflex. The right coronary artery supplies the right ventricle, part of the septum, the wall between the left and right ventricles, and part of the back of the heart. The left anterior descending coronary artery supplies the front of the heart and part of the septum, and the left circumflex coronary artery supplies the lateral wall of the heart and also part of the back of the heart. And of course blockage in any one of these can cause a myocardial infarction or a heart attack. Here you see the CT in its natural state, not colorized artificially, but you can see very clearly the coronary arteries coming off the left, the right, the anterior descending, and the circumflex. So we've reviewed the heart anatomy. The one thing we haven't talked about is the pericardium. The pericardium of course is the constraint. It's the plastic bag, if you will, that keeps the heart nicely shaped within the chest, doesn't allow it to over expand, and protects the heart as well. It's filled with a little bit of fluid so that the heart is able to move smoothly within the pericardium. When disease happens to the pericardium and it becomes thickened or weeps fluid into that space, then of course we can have restriction of heart function, and we're going to talk about pericardial diseases as we go along. Well, that was a quick run through cardiac anatomy. You see a few references here that can help you to read a little more about it. I'd like to reiterate what I've done here is given you a very quick view, if you will, like in an airplane from 35,000 feet. If you want to have a little more detailed look at the ground, you need to do some more reading to more fully understand the cardiac anatomy. We're looking forward now to the next lecture where we're going to talk about the function of the heart, that is its physiology. With that, let's talk about the cardiovascular exam. So, when you know the cardiac exam, many things are possible. Now, what do I mean by that? Many things are possible is actually not just a statement of fact, it's also an acronym. It's a useful way to remember the heart valves. Many things are possible is M-T-A-P. Let me just draw that here. M-T-A-P. Those letters represent the sequence of closing of the four heart valves in the heart. The mitral, the tricuspid, the aortic, and the plumonic. And using that acronym, many things are possible. You'll remember which sequence those valves are closing. You'll also remember where they're located. This is a circle, M-T-A-P, M-T-A-P, which helps us to keep track of where we are when we're listening for particular murmurs and trying to find the etiology of a particular murmur that we hear based on the location on the interior chest wall. The next thing to talk about is once we lay our stethoscopes on his chest, we're going to be listening in particular to three phases of the, of the cardiac cycle. You're going to listen first to heart sounds. That is your S1 and S2, also known as your lub-dub, lub-dub, lub-dub. We're going to listen to the S3 and S4 parts of the heart sounds. Those are your gallops, which can accompany your lub-dub and lub-dub. The second part is systole. So we're going to focus very deliberately on listening to the space between S1 and S2. And then we're going to listen to diastole, the space between S2 and S1. And I found that really important when you're auscultating the chest to make sure you really very deliberately listen to one thing at a time. First the heart sounds, then systole, then diastole. That helps you to avoid the common mistake of getting so sucked into a very loud systolic murmur that you neglect to hear that more subtle diastolic murmur that's happening afterwards. So with that opening outline, heart sounds, systole, diastole, let's start off by talking about the heart sounds. So S1 and S2, lub-dub, lub-dub. As we said before, many things are possible. So M and T are the first heart sounds. So that must represent S1. And then AP represent the second heart sound, S2. These are paired together because they're so closely occurring in space. All we hear is a lub, not two different sounds, just the lub. And then the dub is the A and the P. Now normally, when you are simply breathing, just comfortable, tidal, volume breathing, the mitral and tricuspid valves are closing almost perfectly synchronously. However, the aortic and the pulmonic valve will actually separate or split during the respiratory cycle, specifically during inspiration. So what happens is, if this is S1 here, mitral and tricuspid, and this is your S2, aortic and pulmonic, when the person takes a deep breath, the aortic and the pulmonic will actually separate, like so. And that's normal physiology. And that's driven by the fact that when you take a deep breath, you're creating a negative space in his chest that's actually drawing more blood to the right side of the heart. If there's more blood on the right side of the heart, it's going to take longer for that pulmonic valve to close, until the pulmonic valve moves farther away in time, while the aortic valve stays largely in the same place. That's called physiologic splitting. We expect to hear that. When you're listening to the chest in this area, you should listen and make sure that when he's inspiring, when he's inhaling, that second heart sound does split like that. In contrast, there are some instances where, for example, the aortic valve may actually be displaced in time, particularly with a left bundle branch block. Now, if you have a left bundle branch block, the left ventricle is going to contract later than it's supposed to. So rather than having your S1 here and your S2 here with aortic and pulmonic valve, these two are actually flipped, like so. The aortic valve is now over here, and the pulmonic valve is here. So when this person takes a deep breath, the pulmonic valve moves over. So what you're hearing is paradoxic. You're hearing, during inspiration, the two heart sounds moving closer together, and that's because the pulmonic valve is moving the way it's supposed to, but the aortic valve is so delayed by the bundle branch block that you hear the pulmonic valve catching up with it during inhalation. So that's called paradoxic splitting that you'll see with left bundle branch block and a few other conditions. We're not going to go into all the details of the different things that can cause abnormal splitting, but I just wanted to highlight that that's an important thing you can pick up on by just listening very closely to those heart sounds. Importantly, the S1 and S2 heart sounds are higher in pitch than some other sounds that you might hear. And this leads me to a very important quick brief on your stethoscope. Your stethoscope has two heads on it. You've got a bell, you've got a diaphragm. These are useful in different circumstances. In particular, the bell of your stethoscope is most useful for low-pitched sounds. It actually, by putting the bell on the chest and creating a seal, you are filtering out a lot of the higher-pitched sounds. In contrast, the diaphragm is useful for hearing all of the different pitches within the heart, though with potentially a little bit of a focus on some of the higher-pitched sounds. So when you're using the diaphragm, you're thinking higher-pitched. The bell, you're thinking lower-pitched. So I just said that the S1 and S2 heart sounds, we know that they're... We're going to best hear S2 up here. We're going to best hear S1 down here. And typically, you're listening with the diaphragm because they're both higher-pitched sounds. Like so. Now, in some patients, you may find that rather than just hearing this simple lub-dub, lub-dub, lub-dub, maybe you hear an extra sound, something like a b-lub-dub, b-lub-dub, b-lub-dub. That is an extra heart sound, in this case a b, occurring before the lub, and that's called an S4. It immediately precedes systole, and it's called a fourth heart sound. It's part of the atrial kick. What's happening when you hear an S4 is that the left ventricle has fully filled during diastole. You had diastolic filling. And at the end of diastole, the left atrium is contracting and spitting out that last volume of blood from the atrium, but it's hitting against a stiff left ventricular wall. And this is something that you'll hear in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy, potentially hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy. And it's a very characteristic feature that you'll find in a lot of folks, and it does portend or suggest that a patient does have one of those conditions. Importantly, that b-lub-dub, the b, is a lower-pitched sound. And as I said before, that means you're going to best catch it with the bell of your stethoscope. Before we find it, though, let's just quickly talk about the other kind of abnormal gallop that you might hear. Rather than lub-dub, lub-dub, lub-dub, you might hear a lub-dee-bub, lub-dee-bub, lub-dee-bub, lub-dee-bub. Essentially, that is a sound happening right after s-two. So rather than lub-dub, it's lub-dee-bub, lub-dee-bub. And you can tell that that bub is coming right after the duh, which would have been a dub. And that is an indication of an s-three, a third heart sound. Now, a third heart sound is also emanating from the left ventricle, down here at the apex of the heart. And rather than being associated with left ventricular hypertrophy, it's typically found in acute systolic heart failure, with left ventricular dilation, potentially increased filling pressures, and almost always some evidence of systolic heart failure. Whether it's in the setting of ischemic cardiomyopathy, or potentially if somebody has aortic regurgitation with a surplus of blood backfilling into the heart, then has to be ejected. So that sound is also heard at the apex, which is where, of course, the left ventricle is going to be best heard. And it's also a low-pitched sound, just like the S-four. So the ideal way to bring about that sound, it's going to be with the bell. And since we really want to try and accentuate that sound, because it can be very subtle to hear, we're actually going to reposition our patient and lie him in the left lateral decubitus position to really bring out that heart sound. With that, let's take a listen to the apex of the heart. Alright, so now that we have Sean in the left lateral decubitus position, this is the ideal place for us to try to pick up a third or fourth heart sound. I've got the bell of my stethoscope lightly applied to his chest, simply to provide a seal. If I push too hard, I'm actually just creating a diaphragm out of the skin. So you just want to have light pressure at the apex. And that's it. Now, there's a couple different positions that you may see over the course of this next few minutes. Depending upon what you're looking for, you may have him lying in the left lateral decubitus position. You may have him sitting upright. You may have him lying flat. In general, you don't want to have to repeat the entire cardiac exam in all three positions. So as we go through each murmur, each type of valvular disease, I'll talk about which positions may be most appropriate. First of all, it turns out that the human brain is particularly good at recognizing patterns. And this is a genetic characteristic that was probably evolved millions and millions of years ago when you needed to recognize what was out there in front of you was something that might be able to be eaten or something that was looking to eat you. So that's exactly what happens with the electrocardiogram. After a while, when you become very expert, your brain allows you to recognize the pattern immediately when you see it. Now, of course, there's going to be some steps where you're going to have to make some measurements. But in fact, you will immediately know, oh, I recognize that. That's a heart attack and so forth. So and I think after the end of this 10 lecture series, you'll be able to do that. And with practice, you'll get very good at it. So I'm sure you recognize immediately these two paintings, right? On the left is Van Gogh's Starry Sky. On the right is Leonardo da Vinci's Mona Lisa. How did you recognize them immediately? Because you know the pattern, you've seen them so many times. In the end, I think you'll get to be able to read the electrocardiogram in a very similar way. You'll immediately recognize something and then you'll go back and do a little more detailed work on it. So when did the electrocardiogram start? It started in the early 20th century. A Dutch physician named Eindhoven was the first to be able to record the electrical activity of the heart with any accuracy. Many had tried before, but he was the first that was successful. Now you can see from this very primitive early electrocardiogram, one had to have an arm in salt water and a leg in salt water and a huge apparatus in order to record the electrocardiogram. Well today, of course, with solid state instruments, they're much more sophisticated. The amplification makes the images much clearer. And we now use a very standardized protocol all over the world. And the standards were arrived at a long time ago, back in the 1930s, by experts who came together to decide what would be the universal rules for an electrocardiogram. So, reading the electrocardiogram, as I said, it's like examining a fine artwork. First of all, you get an overall impression something leaps out at you, particularly if it's acute heart attack, acute myocardial infarction, as we'll talk about. But then secondly, there has to be the more careful, detailed analysis, things like heart rate and the duration of the various intervals. And we're going to go over that now. So, in the beginning, don't hurry, take your time, systematically check the heart rate, the timing of the intervals, and the presence or absence of P waves. And we're going to talk about what that means in a moment. Remember, many times you're going to be seeing an electrocardiogram that's been recorded by a computer, and the computer will have read a diagnosis. It'll give you some information. The computer's usually right about heart rate and intervals, but it's often not right about the underlying rhythm, and sometimes it even makes more serious mistakes. So, every computerized electrocardiogram has to be over-read by an experienced electrocardiographer. So, the first thing you're going to look at is going to be the heart rate. That's the number of beats per minute. I'm going to give you a rule how you can calculate the heart rate from the EKG. Of course, it will already have been calculated for you if it's a computer-read ECG. Then we're going to do the various intervals. That's the various points on the electrocardiographic complex that you see on the right-hand side. And we're going to go over how those intervals are derived and how long they are when it's normal. So, let's start. The first wave in the electrocardiogram is the P wave, and this is the electrical signal made when the atria, that's the upper chambers, depolarize. Now, you're going to ask, why P, Q, R, S, and T? Why not A, B, C, D, and E? Well, in fact, in the early years where there were attempts in the early 20th century to try and record the electrocardiogram, there were many artifacts that were called A, B, and C, and D, and so forth, all the way through the alphabet. And finally, Eindhoven got to the letters P, Q, R, S, and T, which were the accurate ones. So, all the earlier ones were artifacts. So, that's why we use these terms. So, here is a normal complex. You'll notice the P wave. That's the electrical depolarization, the wave of electricity running down through the atria. And then it arrives at the ventricle. That's the Q, R, S. That big complex is the ventricle. Ventricle has much more heart muscles, so therefore it's a much bigger complex. And then you have something called the ST segment, which is a little pause before the ventricle resets itself, and the resetting is the T wave. And some patients will have a U wave following the T wave. This can be normal. It's absent in most electrocardiograms. And it is a little more commonly seen when patients have low blood potassium, so-called hypokalemia. So, here again are the various segments. You'll notice that the so-called PR segment is the segment that runs all the way from the beginning of the P wave to the QRS. It's divided into two segments, the duration of the P wave and then the PR segment, that is from the end of the P wave to the beginning of the QRS. But for most daily reading of the electrocardiogram, we just call the PR segment the entire period from the beginning of the P wave to the beginning of the QRS. You then see in gray the QRS complex. That's the depolarization of the ventricle, of both ventricles, by the way, right and left, although the left has a lot more muscle. So, the QRS is dominated by left ventricular muscle depolarization. There's then an ST segment, where a little pause while the ventricle finishes the depolarization and gets ready to repolarize. That is to get ready for the next beat. And that's during the T wave. The T wave is the repolarization wave. And then, as I mentioned, the U wave is often not present, but may be present as a very small wave following the T wave. The electrocardiogram is usually the first test done after the history and physical exam. It's often done in offices. It's very simple. And many physicians' offices have their own system. Usually, it's done by a technician in the office. It may be done by the office nurse in the hospital. In the hospital, there's a whole series of technicians who are on 24 hours a day to record accurate electrocardiograms. It is, again, the simplest, cheapest, and most easily obtained cardiovascular test. It has reasonable accuracy for a variety of heart conditions. For example, arrhythmias or myocardial infarction, a heart attack. However, it's not as accurate at determining the volume of heart muscle compared to an MRI, an echo, or a CT scan. But all of those are much more expensive. They require huge amounts of equipment and machinery. The electrocardiogram is really inexpensive and very simple and is almost always the first test done. One of the reasons it takes a long time to learn to read electrocardiogram is there are many non-specific or non-diagnostic patterns. And there are some differences between men and women and between different groups. For example, in the United States, African Americans have slightly different normal values from European white males and so forth. So all of this, of course, is in the computer. And the computer is told before the EKG is taken what the patient's ethnic background is and so forth. So that helps in terms of the normals. And also, you'll get to recognize these things as you practice reading many electrocardiograms. So let's start with the most basic way of interpreting the ECG. The first thing you do is you have to check the voltage calibration. What's this about? This is about the amplification of the image that the ECG machine is going. Sometimes with arrhythmias, we want to enlarge the complexes so we will double the amplification of the image. But usually, for almost all routine ECGs, the calibration is so-called 10 millimeters. That's 10 little boxes and we'll show you examples of that. And it's always good to check that to begin with because if they had been using the machine at a higher amplification, the complexes are going to look bizarre. They're going to be big and so forth and you might make a mistake in reading. So first, make sure that the calibration is correct. Usually, the technician takes care of that. But there's a little box that shows you the calibration is okay. And I'll point that out later. The next thing is to determine the rhythm. And how do you do that? You're looking for P waves followed by QRSs. In other words, the normal progression. Remember, starting up with the sinus node, atrial depolarization, P wave, QRS, ventricular depolarization, T wave resetting. Once you know what the rhythm is, in other words, is this a normal sinus rhythm or is it not normal sinus rhythm but an arrhythmia? And we're going to have whole lectures about the kinds of abnormal electrical events that can occur when it's not sinus rhythm. You then calculate the heart rate, which is there's normals there. And I'm going to be going over the normals as we go along. You then do the timing intervals. What's the PR interval from the beginning of the P wave to the beginning of the QRS? What's the QRS duration? That's the period of ventricular depolarization. And then how long does it take for the whole contraction and resetting of the ventricle from the Q wave to the end of the T wave? We would then determine the electrical axis. In other words, what is the main vector force of the electrical depolarization wave? What direction is it going in? And there's a certain normal area for that. And for example, if you have abnormalities of the ventricular mass, you can get abnormal vectors, abnormal electrical vectors. We want to look at the P wave morphology to see if it's normal. We look at its voltage and its shape because certain abnormalities of P wave morphology can occur with certain diseases. We want to do the same for the QRS morphology. Again, certain diseases and for example, heart blocks, things that can lead to pacemakers, will change the morphology of the QRS. We'll then look at the ST segment and the T wave morphology. Ischemia, lack of blood flow in the heart that can lead to angina or heart attacks, changes the ST segment and T wave morphology. And if we're lucky enough to have an earlier baseline EKG, we compare it to see, hey, have there been changes? Is something going on here that's something acute? So, let's start. Here is a normal ECG. Notice, in the upper left corner, there is a little green box. That's the standard. And that standard is, if you count the little tiny boxes, 10 little boxes. Each one of the big boxes has five smaller boxes. So, there will be two of the big boxes, which constitute 10 small boxes. Each one of those boxes is one millimeter and corresponds to one millivolt of electrical activity. So, again, this is the standard on all ECG machines. And if you had set the standard to half, then, of course, it would be each one of those little boxes would be less voltage. If you doubled it, they would be more voltage. But usually, again, almost all EKGs use this green box of the 10 standard. You'll notice how the leads are placed here. On the left-hand side, there's lead one, two, and three. Remember, zero degree, plus 60, plus 120. The next three leads, AVR, L, and F. AVR, plus 210. AVL, minus 30. AVF, plus 90. And then come the precordial leads, the ones that are sticking through the heart like needles in a sagittal plane. V1, V2, V3, V4, V5, and V6. And this is a normal ECG. Notice there's a P wave in front of each QRS. The QRSs are nice and narrow. There's a nice T wave, upright, and not way prolonged after each QRS. This is sinus rhythm. Normal sinus rhythm that's set off by the sinus node passes normally through the heart. There's no evidence here of ischemia or heart attack or hypertrophy of the heart muscle. As I said, you'll notice that there's sinus rhythm. In the green box, you'll see that each QRS is preceded by a P wave. The atrium depolarizes before the ventricle. All the P waves are followed by a QRS. There's no blockage of the beat as it goes down through the heart. Each QRS is preceded by a P, and the P's are all identical. They're upright in leads 2 and AVF, and they're nice and narrow. They're not prolonged. If any of the comments just made the answer was no, then you're talking about an arrhythmia. And as I said, we're going to have whole lectures on the arrhythmias later. So right now, we're just worrying about the normal. Also, you notice how nicely the QRSs progress. In fact, that whole strip along the bottom, even though they're different leads, it's continuous. So you're actually seeing one set of P waves after another. In order to obtain the heart rate, you count the number of big boxes between 2 QRSs, and you divide by 300. So if there were 2 big boxes between the 2 QRSs, that would be 2 into 300 or 150. If there were 3 big boxes in between a QRS, that would be a rate of 100, 3 into 300. If there were 4 boxes in between the 2 QRSs, that would be 75. 4 into 300 is 75. You can also do it by counting the number of QRSs in 3 seconds. Remember, the ECG is moving at a certain rate. You can calculate a number of seconds and then multiply by 20. But usually what we do is we use the rule of 300 mentioned before. It's important to note that the normal heartbeat is 60 to 100 beats per minute. So, now we have the heart rate. By the way, the computer is almost always right on the heart rate. Again, let's talk about the intervals. So, a normal PR interval is 0.12 seconds to 0.20 seconds. That's 3 little boxes to 5 little boxes, right? You remember there's 5 little boxes within the bigger box. So, the normal PR interval from the beginning of the P wave to the beginning of the QRS is somewhere between 3 and 5 little boxes, 0.12 to 0.20 seconds. The normal QRS interval is less than 0.1. That's 2 and a half little boxes. And the normal QT, which is corrected for heart rate in a formula, is somewhere between 0.33 and 0.46 seconds. Remember the QT from the beginning of the Q wave to the end of the T wave. Remember, each small box is 0.04 seconds. So, a large box is 5 times 0.04 seconds or 0.20 seconds. And there are 5 small boxes in each large box, as I've said before. Again, what about the axis? Well, there's a general rule that most med students use. And that is, if the QRS is upright in leads 1 and 2, it's a normal axis. You can actually calculate the axis because the axis is perpendicular to any lead where the R and the S or the upstroke and the downstroke are equal. In this example, lead 3, you see that pretty much the amount above the line and below the line is about the same. So, the axis is going to be 90 degrees from lead 3. So, 90 degrees plus 120. Lead 3 is 120. Remember, that's 210. And that would be, in other words, the axis would be towards AVR. Or, minus 90 from 120 would be 30. That would be somewhere near lead 2, which is plus 60. Well, you can see, how do we tell? Where is the maximum R wave? Well, the maximum R wave is around lead 2. There's no upright R wave in AVR. So, therefore, the axis is actually something like a plus 30. So, again, the rule of thumb is you look to see where the amount of voltage up and down is equal. It's 90. The axis is 90 degrees from that. Then you look for the lead with the maximum R wave. That's the direction because you could go this way on the 90 degrees or you could go that way. What tells you which way you go is where's the maximum R wave. In this one, it's lead 2. And, again, normal axis is between minus 30 and plus 90. And if the axis is not between minus 30 and plus 90, then it's an axis deviation. If it goes more minus, that's so-called left axis deviation. If it goes more plus than 90, it's called right axis deviation. And we'll talk about how that's used in reading various electrocardiographic diagnoses. So, again, just to reiterate, the axis for the mean frontal plane electrical vector of the heart is near the limb lead with the tallest R wave and perpendicular to the lead where the size of the upward deflection and the downward deflection are equal. Remember, the upward deflection is called an R wave. The downward deflection is called an S wave. So, let's take a look at the P wave itself. The normal P wave is going to be three little boxes or less in duration. Remember that the PR interval, that's the duration from the beginning of the P wave to the beginning of the QRS, is going to be less than five little boxes. But the length of the P wave itself should be only three little boxes. And it should be upright in lead one and two and a negative deflection of less than one box wide or one box deep in V1. If the P wave in lead V1 is more negative than one box and wider than one box, that suggests that the left atrium is enlarged, so-called left atrial enlargement. If the box is pointed and higher than two millimeters, then, and usually wider than two, then that defines right atrial enlargement. Now, these numbers are not anatomically perfect. The echo and the MRI and so forth would be more perfect, but they carry prognostic information. They're very important because when they appear, it really means that there's quite significant either left atrial dilatation or right atrial dilatation. Let's look at the R wave now. The normal R wave should transit in the precordial lead. Starting with lead V1, there should be a very small R wave. And then it gets a little bigger in V2. And somewhere between V3 and V4, you have a dominant R wave with not much S wave. And then it progresses out to V6 with usually the maximum R wave somewhere in V4, V5, and V6. With the transition from more negative to positive somewhere around V3 or V4. Small Qs, that is initial downward deflections of less than one little box, can occur, but they are never longer than one box. If they're wider than one box, it suggests that there's been damage to the myocardium. And the voltage should be within a normal range. Also, the ST segment should be isoelectric, that is, it should be flat. You can have a little bit of depression, but if it's substantially depressed, more than a tiny amount, it suggests a number of things. Let's look at what it suggests. If there's a sort of curved sagging of the ST segment, as in this example, that means the patient is usually taking digitalis. Digitalis has that effect. If there's ischemia or lack of blood flow, you see a squared off flattening of the ST segment. We see that with positive exercise tests, and we see that when patients come in and have so-called non-ST elevation myocardial infarct. And we'll talk more about those definitions later. And then in hypokalemia, where the potassium is low, you may see a mildly downsloping ST segment. The T wave is often flattened, and as I mentioned before, you may see a little additional wave after the T wave, the U wave. Again, here's the normal EKG. Look at the ST segments here. They're all fine. They're not depressed. They're not elevated. They're in exactly the right sequence. This is going to give you a big overview of cardiac pathology. It's actually possible to bin, to kind of compartmentalize the different cardiac pathologies into about six different categories. And if you understand kind of the big picture, the little picture just ends up being some details that are kind of cool, but not as important as the big picture. With that introduction, we're going to see a lot of cool videos that were prepared with the assistance of Dr. Jose Mata, who I am eternally grateful for, for all of his help. Okay, so this is the normal heart. What it is normally doing is squeezing blood out in a controlled, regulated fashion, in a rhythmic fashion, to provide perfusion to the lungs so that blood can get oxygenated, but also to the aorta and out to the rest of the body to provide oxygenated blood and metabolic nutrients to the rest of the body and eventually bring back venous blood that will allow us to get rid of various waste products and also carbon dioxide. So the heart, in its beauty, is just squeezing in a regular fashion and it's got to be coordinated. There's a lot going on here. What's not shown yet are there are valves that are giving us unidirectional flow. There are coronary arteries that are providing adequate perfusion to the heart. And then there are all the big vessels that are responsible for carrying blood to various places. Okay, that's what it should look like. We're going to have some big picture things related to cardiac pathology. Number one on the hit parade is pump failure. And basically this can be due to a variety of causes, but more commonly, most commonly, this is going to be due to ischemic heart disease. A big thrombosis of a coronary artery, which causes loss of perfusion to a part of the heart. And that heart is not pumping anymore. So there's pump failure. In this particular image, the right ventricle is fine. It continues to pump, but the left ventricle is pretty much at a standstill. That's clearly not going to provide adequate perfusion, blood supply, to the rest of the body. So that's one major mode of cardiac pathology. Pump failure. What's shown here is actually a heart attack. But you can also have this same failure mode if you have myocarditis. You have inflammation and other injury of the heart. You can have pump failure if you fill up the heart with an extracellular component called amyloid. So there are a variety of ways that you can have pump failure. Okay, that's one. Next one is because the valves that are supposed to maintain unidirectional blood flow don't work appropriately. So we're looking down onto the top of the heart. And right there in the middle, looking proud, is the aortic valve. That valve should open all the way up to provide, to allow blood to flow out when the ventricle squeezes. In this case, we have a stenotic valve. We have flow obstruction. That will have a number of consequences, including diminished perfusion of all the distal tissues. But also the heart's going to have to work much harder to try to pump against that tight valve. So flow obstruction is another major cardiac pathology. Well, if you have stenosis, you can also have regurgitation. So the next one is regurgitant flow. This is looking at an aortic valve. Blood should only be going out through the aorta. It should not be going backwards into the left ventricle. That backwards regurgitant flow is going to cause volume and pressure overload in the left ventricle, which eventually will translate back into the left atrium, into the lungs, and we will have heart failure. So regurgitant flow is also a major source of cardiac pathology. You can have shunted flow. So again, blood is supposed to go from the inferior and superior vena cava into the right atrium, into the right ventricle, and out the pulmonary artery. Return through the pulmonary veins to the left atrium, to the left ventricle, and out through the aorta. But in a number of congenital heart diseases, and sometimes acquired diseases, you can have abnormal flow from the left side to the right side. In general, that will be, as we'll talk about, the most common defect. Because the left-sided pressures are much higher than the right-sided pressures, if we make holes between the ventricles or between the atria, flow will tend to go left to right. There are exceptions to this, very important exceptions, when pulmonary pressure becomes very high. But shunted flow is also going to cause significant pathology. And in this particular case, that extra volume and pressure coming from the left ventricle through a ventricular septal defect into the right ventricle is going to cause pressure volume overload in the right ventricle, causing one, right heart failure, but increase pressure and volume in the pulmonary circulation, which can eventually cause pulmonary hypertension. So shunted flow is your fourth big picture cause of cardiac pathology. There can be abnormal cardiac conduction. So if the atria do not transmit the signal appropriately from the sinoatrial node to the atrioventricular node, then you will have atrial fibrillation, and then you will not have a coordinated squeezing of the atrium into the ventricles. Similarly, if the ventricle is quivering in ventricular fibrillation, that's another cause of cardiac pathology. So the conduction system has to work appropriately. And we will talk in one of our sessions together, you and I, about cardiac conduction abnormality specifically. And finally, we can have rupture of the heart or a major vessel. And basically, when that happens, you get exsanguination. That seems like a rather trivial cause of cardiac pathology, but can have major outcomes. Basically, it's a cause of death. And what we're looking at on this image is a reconstruction of a patient with a dissecting aneurysm that was ultimately lethal because the blood got into the abnormal false lumen and then ruptured out into the pericardial sac causing tamponade. All right, with that, we have covered the six major modes of cardiac pathology. And now in the subsequent talks that we're going to have together, it's just going to be interesting details. We're going to talk about a rather large but very important topic of basic heart muscle disease or cardiomyopathy. We're going to do an overview. And then we will talk pretty much in three little bins or three larger bins about the various forms of cardiomyopathy. While we are understanding more and more of the genetic basis underlying many of these intrinsic heart muscle diseases, it's still best to think about them in terms of their pathophysiology. So we will talk about a dilated or globoid or kind of floppy heart. We'll talk about a very hyperdynamic heart. That's hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. And then we will talk about restrictive cardiomyopathy, which is a stiff heart. So let's start with a cardiomyopathy overview. As I've already stated, cardiomyopathies are basically a group of diseases that affect the heart muscle and decrease its ability to pump blood. And that may be because it doesn't fill very well or because it doesn't pump very well. And either one of those will lead to the overall effect that there is diminished ability to pump blood systemically to all the organs of the body. There can be primary causes of cardiomyopathy intrinsic to the cardiac muscle. There may be secondary forms due to diseases of other kinds that affect the cardiac muscle. We're going to use this kind of schematic to help understand the various forms of cardiomyopathy or the types. Looking at the normal heart, you can see that we've emphasized mainly the left ventricle and the left atrium and the aorta. But you can also, in some of the images that we're going to show, affect the right ventricle as well. But the normal heart has normal closure of valves, normal size left atrial, normal size left ventricle cavity, normal thickness of the myocardium in the left ventricle. In a dilated cardiomyopathy, we're going to see kind of a globoid dilation of the heart. This is actually the most common cause of cardiomyopathy. Roughly 85 to 90% of cases are going to be dilated cardiomyopathy. And along with this dilation of the chamber, you can see that we're pulling those papillary muscles a little bit apart, which are tugging on the cordy tendiniae, which are opening the mitral valve. And so there's marked left atrial dilation. Those are all part and parcel of a dilated cardiomyopathy. This also includes arrhythmogenic cardiomyopathy, previously called arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy, because it predominantly affects the right ventricle. The important point about this is that it is a form of dilated cardiomyopathy. We'll cover it more later, so just keep that in mind. The flip side of the coin is hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is a thickened ventricle with a hyperdynamic heart. So there's more cardiac muscle mass. The outcome, though, however, because of obstruction to the left ventricular outflow due to the thickness of the interventricular septum myocardium, can also lead to left atrial enlargement. So you can have some of the same general geographic effects. And then there's restrictive cardiomyopathy, where the chambers of the heart look pretty normal. The thickness of the wall looks pretty normal. But because we've infiltrated the myocytes or the myocardium with various things like fibrous connective tissue or amyloid, the walls are stiff. So they don't relax very well. Okay, we're going to cover each of these in turn, these kind of basic pathophysiologic forms, dilated, hypertrophic, restrictive, and talk about the etiologies and the consequences. Let's start first with dilated cardiomyopathy. In general, split about 50-50. The numbers change because we're finding more genetic causes, but roughly 50-50 genetic causes and non-genetic causes. These dilated cardiomyopathies cause systolic dysfunction. So they don't squeeze very well. They actually feel pretty well. They're pretty floppy. So they feel okay. They just don't squeeze the blood out. So ejection fractions will be markedly diminished. In hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, we know it's about 100% of cases have a genetic cause, and we understand the vast majority of those. In this case, it's not systolic dysfunction. They squeeze great. In fact, they squeeze too well, but they don't relax very well. So they're like hard-driving medical students around the world. They work really hard, and they don't relax very well. So it's diastolic dysfunction. And then in restrictive cardiomyopathy, as I've already stated, it's associated with some systemic disorders, or it may be idiopathic. And the fundamental problem is that it's diastolic dysfunction. It's a stiff heart. There's not a lot of muscle there, or not excessive increases in muscle, but it's stiff, and therefore you have diastolic dysfunction. It doesn't relax to fill very well. In all of the cases, whether it's dilated, hypertrophic, or restrictive, the clinical presentations are pretty much the same. It's heart failure. We have inadequate pump function to perfuse the rest of the body. And as the heart either dilates and the valves fail, or as we have increased squeezing with poor relaxation, we tend to get regurgent flow into the atrium. We get left atrial enlargement that leads to atrial fibrillation. A combination of atrial fibrillation, a kind of quivering left atrium, and diminished flow through that left atrium with a dilated left atrium is going to make that portion of the heart prone to forming thrombi. So patients can also present with stroke and with sudden cardiac death due to either embolization or to sudden arrhythmic events. So the final consequences of all of these are pretty much the same. How we get there in each of them is a little bit different. All right, that's the overview. And if you've got that, then you've really understood about 80% of what we're going to be talking about. The next 20% are going to be details that are important for you to take care of patients and also to ace those board examinations. Let's start with dilated cardiomyopathy. We are looking at the schematic that we've used many, many times to show the various chambers of the heart. We have the right-sided heart all in blue, the inferior and superior vena cava to the right atrium, to the tricuspid valve, to the right ventricle, pulmonic valve going out to the lungs, and then returning in pink to the left atrium through the pulmonary veins, across the mitral valve, into the left ventricle and out the aorta. Okay. In dilated cardiomyopathy, we get a progressive cardiac dilation for a variety of causes that we'll talk about. It's associated not only with that dilation, but because we are stretching the cardiac myocytes. We are actually causing a rearrangement of the gap junctions that connect between the myocytes. So there's electrical and mechanical dysfunction. And overall, there's impaired systolic function. It just doesn't squeeze very well. It is the most common cardiomyopathy, causing about 90% of cases of cardiomyopathy not otherwise specified. Most commonly diagnosed in 20s to 50s, somewhere in that ballpark. But in fact, you can have it much younger, as we'll talk about. It is a lethal disease. One half of patients, 50%, will be dead within a couple years if not successfully treated. And only 25%, a quarter, will survive longer than five years. So this is as bad as or worse than many malignancies in terms of mortality. Again, it's 50-50 roughly for the causes of dilated cardiomyopathy. We'll cover first the non-genetic causes. So it turns out that infections, in particular myocarditis, will cause damage to the cardiac myocytes. And then over a period of time, you may develop a dilated cardiomyopathy. You may not even have recognized the original infection of the heart muscle. But the consequences that we can see downstream will nevertheless chronically progress. Toxic exposures. And this can be a variety of chemotherapy agents. This can be heavy metals. This can be alcohol and alcohol use disorders. So all of those can cause it. A relatively, unfortunately, rare cause, non-genetic cause of dilated cardiomyopathy is pregnancy. So postpartum or peripartum cardiomyopathy. And we'll talk a little bit about those mechanisms. Ischemia. So ischemic heart disease is probably one of the greater non-genetic causes. And low levels of ischemia, not necessarily even frank infarction, but low levels of ischemia, can lead over time to progressive dysfunction with a dilated heart. You can have something called takotsubo cardiomyopathy. This is the so-called broken heart syndrome due to stress. And what do we mean by stress? We mean actually elevated catechols, which cause microvascular spasm. Microvascular spasm that lasts for greater than 20 to 30 minutes will cause microvascular infarct. And then you get an ischemic cardiomyopathy. So you can have stress cardiomyopathy or takotsubo. Tachycardia. So just having a very rapid heart rate for prolonged periods of time can also cause dilated cardiomyopathy. And the reason for that is it's part of high output failure. It is actually a mechanism by which we can induce heart failure in experimental animals, just pace them very quickly. And it is because over a period of time, we've talked previously, the normal cardiac cycle, roughly a third of a second is going to be for systole and two thirds of a second for diastole. And if you have 60 beats per minute, that's kind of the sequence. But now if I increase heart rate significantly, 120, 180 beats per minute, the systole stays the same, but the diastole shortens. And remember, we only perfuse the heart during diastole. So chronic tachycardia, chronic high output will actually drive a dilated cardiomyopathy due to ischemia. Iron overload, diseases like hemochromatosis, either whether it's primary or secondary, will also cause a dilated cardiomyopathy. We'll talk about mechanisms shortly. Let's look at the genetic causes. Most of these are defects in a variety of proteins involved in the contractile apparatus of the sarcomeres. And I will say, as we're getting more and more sophisticated, smarter and smarter, and looking at more genes, we are finding increasing genetic causes of dilated cardiomyopathy, things that had previously been called idiopathic. As I said, majority of these seem to be defects in forced generations. So the way that the actin and myosin fibers interact with each other or are regulated by troponin or tropomyosin, we don't get effective sarcomeric contraction. But some of the genetic causes involve signal defects, that we're not getting the appropriate movement, say, of ions within the myocytes. Or it may even be defective ATP generation. Regardless of the cause, genetic or non-genetic, in dilated cardiomyopathy, again, we overall have decreased myocardial contractility. And the phenotype for all of these, regardless, includes dilation of the cardiac chambers. That's how we get the name, dilated cardiomyopathy. There is myocyte hypertrophy. So, as we are getting less and less contractile, the response, the adaptation of the heart is to say, well, we need to have stronger myocytes. So, even as we're getting less contractile force, the myocytes are undergoing hypertrophy. So, they will be enlarged. The abnormal volume and pressure will lead to the myofibroblast, the fibroblast within the heart, to lay down increased fibrosis. That's going to also materially affect the contractility of the heart. And because we have these dilated chambers with diminished movement of blood through them, they're going to be prone to developing thrombi, which can eventually embolize. We are going to consider one of the most serious problems that faces a cardiologist, the patient with heart failure. Heart failure is very common and increasingly common these days. It's because it is a common complication of older individuals. And, of course, the older population is increasing throughout North America and Western Europe, as well as Asia. Heart failure is defined differently in different circumstances by different cardiologists. But, basically, it's an inability of the heart to pump enough blood to meet the demands of the body. In other words, if one exercises, one requires an increase in blood flow to the body. And if you can't do that, you may develop the symptoms of heart failure. As we're going to see, there are a number of compensatory mechanisms that get set off in heart failure. And some of them actually work to increase symptoms in these patients. The major issue here is that the heart has an inadequate or decreased cardiac output. Remember, cardiac output, that's stroke volume times heart rate. That is the amount of blood the heart puts out each beat times the heart rate. And in this setting, what you see is that the patient has an increase in blood volume because of compensatory mechanisms that work to correct the heart failure state. Unfortunately, this leads to fluid accumulation in the body and even edema, that is swelling in the body. This can also be associated with circulatory congestion, for example, in the lungs. So, you have increased fluid in the lungs, so the patients are short of breath. And in addition, you may see patients being markedly fatigued because they're not getting adequate heart pumping. As I said before, it's a very common problem. There are more than three million patients in the United States with heart failure. There's a number of new patients presenting every year. And unfortunately, heart failure has a very poor prognosis, often a prognosis just as bad as many forms of cancer. Heart failure is more common in African Americans. And it's interesting that these patients seem to do better briefly when they're admitted to the hospital, but their long-term outlook is worse. Some of this may be because of lower socioeconomic conditions in many African Americans. The heart failure frequency in the U.S. has been increasing with an increasing population. A statistic I like to quote is that in the United States in every 24-hour period, more people will become age 85 than will be born. So, you can imagine if heart failure is a very common problem in the elderly, just as atrial fibrillation is a common problem in the elderly, both of these are what I call, quote, growth industries. And again, women tend to be a little less frequently affected by heart failure. Men is a little more common early on. But once we get into the geriatric population above 65 to 70, the amount is about the same. There are a number of factors that are referred to when we talk about heart failure. And you'll remember some of these factors from the basic lectures on heart function. Remember preload. Preload is filling of the heart so that it's a manifestation of the size of the ventricle when it fills up. When you have increased blood volume, you increase the preload. That is the amount of volume that the heart has to squeeze out. This happens with some of the compensatory mechanisms that increase the blood volume. And consequently, preload may be increased in the heart. And what increased preload leads to is increased filling pressures in the ventricle during diastole during the rest period. This leads to increased pressures in the ventricle during diastole. And those increased pressures are transmitted back to the lungs and even back to the rest of the body, leading to fluid accumulation in the tissues of the lung and the rest of the body. Afterload is the work of the heart. It's the resistance the ventricle feels when it is pumping out. This is usually due to resistance in the vascular system. You'll remember that from the basic lecture in cardiology. Increased peripheral vascular resistance leads to increased afterload, increased work of the heart. You can imagine that's not good in heart failure. And in fact, here's a clue when we talk about therapy of heart failure. One of the things is to decrease afterload, to decrease the work of the ventricle and hope that it will recover from its depressed state. There are two forms of heart failure, systolic and diastolic. In other words, sometimes, let's take diastolic first, the ventricle squeezes all right, but it fails to relax normally. It relaxes slowly or in a stiffened manner, leading to increased pressure in there that gets transmitted throughout the circulation and leads to collection of fluid, as we talked about before, edema. Systolic heart failure is when the ventricle fails to squeeze well. That can happen, of course, with the patient who's had heart attacks, happens to patients with cardiomyopathy, heart muscle disease. And often, systolic heart failure is associated also with diastolic. So most patients with heart failure have both systolic and diastolic, but there is a whole group of patients, a minority as you can see from the circle diagram here, who have pure diastolic heart failure. Interestingly, the long-term prognosis for diastolic heart failure is just as bad as for systolic heart failure. Diastolic heart failure tends to occur in older individuals, often with thickened heart muscle. Now, there are a number of compensatory mechanisms that the body sets off when it sees heart failure. Remember, I mentioned them just a few moments ago. What are the compensatory mechanisms? Well, let's think, why would the body compensate for decreased cardiac output, for decreased pumping of the blood? The reason the body compensates is because it interprets heart failure as if there had been a hemorrhage, a blood loss, or dehydration. In other words, the reduced pumping ability, the body interprets as, oh, there's a lack of blood from a hemorrhage, or there's a lack of fluid in the circulation because of dehydration. And it sets off a whole bunch of compensatory mechanisms aimed at holding on to fluid, water, and salt. Unfortunately, this is exactly the opposite of what we would want because in holding on to fluid, you actually create the setting where patients put some of that fluid into the tissues, both in the legs as edema or in the lung as pulmonary edema. So, the activation of the neurohumeral system, that is central nervous system initiated activity, to correct the heart failure situation actually makes the situation worse. These systems work great if there's dehydration, you're caught in the desert without water. They work great if there's a hemorrhage, you've been cut somewhere, or you're bleeding from an ulcer in your stomach, but they work, unfortunately, in a negative manner in the patient with heart failure. Let's just talk for a moment about why these compensatory mechanisms work. They work because of something I mentioned before, Starling's Law, the so-called rubber band law of the heart. The more you fill it, the more it contracts. So, what the compensatory mechanisms are trying to do is to increase the filling of the heart so it will squeeze more. As I've said, unfortunately, that leads to elevated pressures that back up in the system and result in edema. But, the rubber band law of the heart says that the force of contraction is related to how much you stretch the heart muscle cells, and this increases contractility. So, you see why the body is trying to increase the pumping ability of the heart, and this works fine if it's a hemorrhage or dehydration, but it doesn't work well when the patient has heart failure. So, remember, stroke volume is the number of cubic centimeters that the heart puts out with each time it squeezes, times heart rate, that's cardiac output. So, when we have a reduction in stroke volume because the heart has been injured, sometimes you'll even see the heart rate go up because the central nervous system says, oh, cardiac output is falling. We have to increase the heart rate. We have to increase our ability to hold on to salt and water and increase the blood volume, and use the Starling Law to increase the contractility of the heart. Again, unfortunately, it's not the right setting for that, and this leads to overfilling of the circulation, increased pressures in the circulation, and increased fluid getting out into the lungs and into the tissues. So, the central factor in heart failure, of course, is depression of the heart muscle, at least for systolic heart failure. But also in diastolic heart failure, the heart is supposed to actively relax, and there's also depression of that. But the commonest form of heart failure, as you've seen in the previous slide, was systolic, and it is usually because there's been some injury to the heart muscle, most commonly from ischemic or coronary artery disease with heart attacks. And again, we've talked about the compensatory mechanisms. Here are the compensatory mechanisms listed. First of all, they're initiated by the central nervous system. One of them is a signal that's sent to the kidneys and that the kidney actually does on its own. The kidney is the regulator of the blood pressure in the body. It sees a drop in blood pressure, a drop in cardiac output, and it releases compounds in something called the renin-angiotensin system, which holds on to salt and water. It's hormones that actively tell the kidney, hey, don't pee out sodium and water. Hold on to it because the circulatory system needs some volume. There are also hormones that are released from the pituitary, so-called antidiuretic hormone, which tells the kidney, hey, hold on to water. Don't let the water go out in the urine. In addition, you also will have activation of the sympathetic nervous system, which is part of the flight or fight system. This sends adrenaline to the heart muscle to try and get it to contract more vigorously, and it also clamps down a little bit on the periphery in an attempt to shrink the volume that the heart has to pump into. All of these compensatory mechanisms, you can see, they work great if we're talking about dehydration or hemorrhage, but they work in the wrong direction when the patient already has a depressed left ventricle. The other thing that happens is that the heart muscle remodels. It reconstructs itself, if you will. You can see in this diagram on the left that there's one form of remodeling, left ventricular hypertrophy, where the ventricle markedly thickens, for example, with aortic stenosis, as we talked about with the patient in the last lecture. On the other side is the sort of thing you see in a cardiomyopathy. The heart dilates, thickens a little bit, but predominantly what it does is it dilates. And you've all heard someone say, oh, so-and-so's in trouble. They have a, quote, big heart. That's because the heart's dilated. That's often the final stage of heart failure. When the heart has exhausted all of its other compensatory mechanisms to get the cardiac output up, then you start to see this dilatation of the left ventricle. Now, again, we talked about the different kinds of heart failure, systolic and diastolic, but sometimes there are definitions based upon which ventricle is in the most trouble. Most common is left-sided heart failure. That's because the left ventricle has been injured. But in some conditions, such as severe lung disease with high pressures in the lung, you may just see isolated right-sided heart failure. So let's think about this for a moment. With left-sided heart failure, the backup is going to be into the lungs. Patients get fluid in the lungs and they're short of breath. So the edema is in the lungs with left-sided heart failure. With right-sided heart failure, the backup is into the veins. So you often see patients with fluid in the abdomen, fluid in the legs, so-called peripheral edema. And the left ventricle may be working just fine, but it's not getting any blood from the right ventricle because the right ventricle is failing. And, of course, it's obvious what the left ventricle puts out depends on what the right ventricle puts out. They have to balance out. If they don't balance out, all the blood is going to end up on one side of the circulation or the other. And then we've talked about before, systolic heart failure, failure of contraction, diastolic heart failure, failure of relaxation. Patients with chronic heart failure can be divided into two broad categories based on whether their ejection fraction is normal or reduced. These two categories are heart failure with preserved ejection fraction, called HEF-PEF, and heart failure with reduced ejection fraction, called HEF-REF. Sometimes a third category is implied and used, and that's heart failure with mildly reduced ejection fraction of 41% to 49%, because normal, of course, is above 50%. For the most part, it's important to know the differences between the two distinct types of heart failure. About half of the patients with heart failure have HEF-PEF and about half have HEF-REF. This distinction has prognostic value, and it also helps guide therapy for the patients with heart failure, since therapy is different for HEF-PEF and HEF-REF. HEF-PEF is defined as a left ventricular ejection fraction of 50% or more in a patient with signs and symptoms of clinical heart failure. Although most patients with HEF-PEF have diastolic dysfunction with elevated filling pressures, asymptomatic diastolic dysfunction can be seen with normal aging in individuals who do not have clinical symptoms. So, although people with diastolic dysfunction have a risk factor for HEF-PEF, these two terms are not synonymous. HEF-PEF must be distinguished from other causes of heart failure in patients with an ejection fraction greater than 50%, and these include patients with valvular heart disease, pericardial disease, cardiac amyloidosis, and high output heart failure, such as that seen with severe anemia or hyperthyroidism. Heart failure with reduced ejection fraction, or HEF-REF, is defined as a left ventricular ejection fraction less than 50%, although an ejection fraction in the 40s is sometimes called mildly reduced ejection fraction. Patients with HEF-REF have difficulty with the pumping function of the left ventricle, the heart, and by definition a reduced ejection fraction in the left ventricle known as impaired systolic function. Decreased ejection fraction leads to inadequate tissue perfusion and, of course, influences the prognosis of the patient. As you might expect, the lower the ejection fraction, often the worse the patient does and the more symptoms they have. Cardiac remodeling is a response to hemodynamic load as well as neurohormonal activation. Pathological remodeling can be seen with pressure overload due to hypertension or aortic stenosis. It can also be seen with volume overload, with valvular regurgitation, or with cardiac injury, for example, myocardial infarction. The management of HEF-REF is quite different from the management of HEF-PEF, and it's important to know the differences. Here's just a little diagram to remind you how the whole body is a coordinated system. You see the brain is connected to the heart, the brain is connected to the kidneys, they're all connected to the peripheral blood vessels. And as we've talked about, when there's heart failure or when there's dehydration or when there's hemorrhage, all of these factors become activated in an attempt to, A, restore the blood volume, and, B, restore the pumping ability of the heart. And here they are, all listed again, just as we've talked about before. The central nervous system is critical. The sympathetic nervous system is activated. The kidney, through the renin-angiotensin system, is activated. And the ventricle gets increased volume and, therefore, uses the Starling mechanism. The Starling mechanism, all of these things work together. They work great. If the patient's blood volume is down because of dehydration and hemorrhage, they work against you when the problem is that the heart is not pumping enough. And, again, here you see a diagram that just shows you how all of these interact, how decreased cardiac output can lead to lung congestion, and how increased peripheral pressure can lead to peripheral edema. The neurohormonal activations through the kidney that go on, all of these things are working in a complete circus motion like a horse riding around the track in a circus. Around and around, they keep reinforcing each other. And, unfortunately, in heart failure lead to marked retention of water and salt that leads to the various symptoms that the heart failure patient has. In the American Heart Association guidelines, talk about various levels of heart failure. Level A is somebody who's really predisposed to heart failure but has not developed it yet. So that's somebody with high blood pressure, diabetes, hypercholesterolemia, hyperlipidemia, as we've talked about, that leads to atherosclerosis. Heart failure hasn't developed yet, but the substrate, if you will, is ready to go on and cause a heart condition that will lead to heart failure. Grade B is when you're starting to have some very early signs of heart failure by some of our fancy tests, such as from the echocardiogram, but the patient is still asymptomatic. Stage C is when the patient is already having symptoms. They're tired, they're short of breath, they have peripheral edema. And stage D is when they're really incapacitated with heart failure, marked severe symptoms of heart failure. Now, it's important to remember that heart failure relates to atherosclerosis in the majority of cases who present to the cardiologist with heart failure. No surprise. Remember, we talked about the last time I spoke to you about the typical patient. That's the commonest patient that comes to the cardiologist, the patient with atherosclerotic heart disease. When that disease is advanced, particularly if the patient has had previous myocardial infarcts or heart attacks, the ventricular function is compromised and the patient shows up with heart failure. So what are the risk factors for heart failure? They're the risk factors for atherosclerotic heart disease. They're hypercholesterolemia, hypertension, cigarette smoking, diabetes, all the things we talked about before that can lead to atherosclerosis. And you can see that the commonest ones, you know, are problems leading to heart failure is ischemic heart disease. But there's a number of other factors that are involved as well. But ischemic heart disease, the number one cause of death in the world, number one cause of heart failure. There are a number of rarer causes of heart failure. I'm not going to go into this in any detail. But, for example, in the United States, one of the commonest causes of cardiomyopathy is excessive alcohol intake. Alcohol is a poison for the myocardium taken in small amounts. It's good, increases the HDL level, can be very pleasant in a social setting. But excessive alcohol can lead to cardiomyopathy. And, of course, a lot of other problems, liver failure from cirrhosis, et cetera, et cetera. There are other things that can cause heart failure. We've talked about this before. Cardiomyopathy from a chronic viral infection. Certain drugs can do it. One of the favorite drugs for chemotherapy for breast cancer also damages the heart. And some other drugs can do the same thing. And, of course, arrhythmias with long-standing fast heart rate that's uncontrolled can also lead to cardiac fatigue. These things are much rarer. Remember, ischemic heart disease is number one public enemy. And here you just see all of the symptoms that patients will have with heart failure. They will be dyspneic. That is, they'll be short of breath. You will find maybe their lips are blue because they're not pumping enough oxygenated blood around. There may be heart murmurs, as we had in the patient in the last lecture, with aortic stenosis. Sometimes, on physical exam, you will hear a loud extra heart sound that says the ventricle is really hurting. The patient is breathing fast. You may hear, actually, sounds from fluid in the lungs and so forth. There's a whole variety of physical findings that the doctor finds that confirms the diagnosis of heart failure. Remember from the last lecture, the most important thing are the symptoms. They give you the clue. Ninety percent of the answer of the diagnosis is in the history. You then move to the physical exam. Oh, yes, I'm hearing things. I'm seeing things that suggest that the reason the patient is tired, the reason the patient is short of breath, the reason the patient has swelling in their legs is because of heart failure. Right ventricular heart failure alone can cause a different set of symptoms and signs. Of course, the edema, the extra fluid, is in the legs. And you will remember that you may have problems in the abdomen because the increased venous pressure backing up is not only in the legs, but it's also in the abdomen. The liver swells. There's also swelling in the fluid in the abdomen. Patients may find their waist size gaining. They become very, very tired. And often you can even feel on physical exam this bulging abdomen that's full of fluid. Remember, again, right heart failure, much less common than left heart failure. Common is cause of left heart failure. Ischemic heart disease, that is previous heart attacks. So here's a few diagrams that just show you what the cardiologist sees when they see a patient usually with very clear and significant heart failure. And you can see that their pupils may be dilated from the from the adrenaline that's circulating. The skin may be gray or pale or even blue cyanotic and a whole bunch of things. They may be short of breath breathing fast. They may be uncomfortable lying back and feel more comfortable breathing sitting up. There may actually be sounds in the lungs from fluid in the lungs crackles or so-called rowels. They may have a cough from the excess fluid that's in their system. There is often increased pressure in the veins. And you can actually see that in the neck. I'm going to show you a picture of that. And the blood pressure may be decreased because the cardiac output is down. And also the patient may even have some discomfort in the abdomen, swelling and nausea and so forth. And of course, you may see bulging of the abdomen, as I mentioned, and edema that is swelling in the legs. All of these are not seen necessarily in one patient, but in individuals you may see a number of these findings. And of course, patient's anxiety level is increased, of course, because they're short of breath. One of the worst things that can happen to you is to be suffocated. It activates anxiety in a huge way. And again, you may see the fact that the patient has decreased oxygen saturation. Often we can test that with a little finger thing or an ear thing to see that the oxygen level in the blood is going down. The patients in advanced heart failure may be confused, particularly in elderly patients. There may be, as I'm going to show you a picture in a moment, the jugular vein is distended because of high filling pressures in the right atrium transmitted back to the jugular vein. There can, if the patient's had a heart attack, there may be chest discomfort in association with this. Of course, the patient is markedly fatigued, and you may hear the heart sounds that I mentioned before, this extra heart sound. The heart may be increased in rate. And again, you may feel swelling of the liver or the spleen from the venous congestion that goes back there. And of course, there's decreased cardiac output if you measure that often with an echo. And the pulse may be therefore weak. The patient is often cool. The skin may be sweaty. So here's a picture. This is a lovely picture of a distended jugular vein. You can see it rising up from just above the clavicle, the bone that's right here on the front of the chest. And you can see rising up almost to the level of the jaw. So this is a patient with quite advanced heart failure. In this case, it's a finding of right ventricular failure. But the commonest cause of right ventricular failure is often left ventricular failure that increases pressure in the lungs, increases the work of the right ventricle, which eventually fails. So this could be a patient with left ventricular and right ventricular failure, or it could be somebody with isolated right ventricular failure. And here we see an example of peripheral edema. You can see you push into the soft tissue of the leg, and you'll notice that the impression stays when you take your finger away. So this is a patient with advanced peripheral edema. It also looks to me like the skin doesn't have its normal tone, its normal color. It looks gray and mottled, and often this is because of decreased cardiac output. So of course, we're going to do some tests to confirm our clinical impression. We've had the history. Oh, this suggests heart failure. The patient's short of breath. They have peripheral edema. Oh, we listen to the heart and we hear an extra sound, the S3 gallop. Okay. We now are pretty sure the patient has heart failure. Then we do a chest x-ray. You can see the two examples here. The one on the one side is normal, and the one on the other side shows an enlarged heart. Sometimes we will even see evidence of fluid in the lungs. Pretty obvious on this chest x-ray. This is called pulmonary edema. The left ventricle has failed significantly, and what we see is fluid throughout the lungs. And of course, this patient is very short of breath. You might be breathing at 30 or 40 times a minute. Normal is about 12, 13, 14 times a minute. And you may actually hear gurgling from this fluid that's collecting in the small alveolar sacs in the lung and being transmitted into the bigger bronchial tubes. This can drop the oxygen saturation in the blood, can lead to fatal arrhythmias, and people can die from this. And this is a medical emergency that requires urgent therapy. And here is a chest x-ray showing a variety of findings of a little less serious heart failure. One can see edema in the lymphatic so-called curly lines. One can see fluid collecting in the pleura. You can see in the little angle there where the heart meets the chest that there's a little sort of rounded area. That's actually fluid in the pleural space, the space that surrounds the lungs. There's a variety of other findings that the radiologist will often call you up and say, your patient has heart failure. We often do an echocardiogram to see how bad the heart failure is. For example, is it left ventricular? Is it right ventricular? Is it very advanced? Is the ejection fraction, that is the percentage of blood squeezed out by the heart, very low? Or is it only modestly reduced? This is an echocardiogram from a patient with very advanced heart failure. The left ventricle is markedly dilated. We don't see the film with it, but I'm sure if we saw the film, instead of the ventricle squeezing normally like this, it's doing this. Hardly squeezing at all. And you can see also in this echo, the left ventricle is enlarged. So this is a patient with long-standing heart failure. So let's talk a little bit about treatment. Clearly, treatment goals are to reduce the edema, to reduce the excess fluid volume, and to make the patient much more comfortable and able to have full activity. You'd also like to increase the pumping ability of the heart. Sometimes, if it's for example in the patient we talked about in the last lecture, somebody with aortic stenosis, taking away the stenotic valve and putting in a good valve, allows the ventricle to recover. In other settings, if it's due to severe ischemia, lack of blood flow in the heart, coronary bypass or angioplasty may improve the blood flow in the heart, and may, not always, but may improve the function of the ventricle, and again lead to resolution of symptoms. And there's a variety of drugs that help increase the removal of fluid from the body. For example, diuretics that increase renal excretion of water and salt will reduce the excess volume of salt and water in the body and often lead to marked improvement in the symptoms. Patients with heart failure, particularly new heart failure, require hospitalization. They require a number of tests to determine why they're in heart failure, and they also require a number of drugs that are used to improve, if possible, the function of the heart and to decrease the work of the heart and to increase fluid and salt excretion. And what you do, this step diagram is a complicated one. I'm not anticipating that anybody needs to learn this right away, but it shows you as the heart failure increases, the aggressiveness of our therapy increases. So in the beginning, we use ACE inhibitors. That is, they vasodilate the arterioles, they decrease the blood pressure a bit, and they decrease the work of the heart. In a sense, what we're trying to do is rest the heart, make the heart's job, the left ventricle's job, a little easier. But as you go along, there's a variety of other interventions that are used, both improving blood flow, for example, with angioplasty. We also use drugs that rest the heart a little bit by decreasing the heart rate, beta blockers. And then eventually, you may even progress to devices that increase the pumping ability of the heart while you're getting ready to do something more aggressive. For example, change a heart valve, or even in the most severe stages, do a heart transplant, give the patient a new heart. It's important that patients have lifestyle changes, particularly with the milder forms of heart failure, because what we're trying to do is prevent heart failure from progressing. So what are those lifestyle changes? Clearly, somebody who's obese, you've got a lot of extra weight around. If you have a big belly that has 40 or 50 pounds of extra weight, it's like you're carrying a 40 or 50 pound knapsack on your back, and you're asking the heart to do that extra work. You can imagine that's a bad idea. So dieting and reduction of obesity is important. Number two, cutting back on salt, because the more salt you take in, the compensatory mechanisms of the body hold on to that salt, and of course, increase blood volume. So restriction of salt. It turns out that regular, particularly in the beginning supervised exercise or physical activity, actually improve the whole cardiovascular system and enable patients to do more work with the same cardiac output that they had before. So, and of course, stopping things like cigarette smoking, which are damaging to the blood vessels and which can cause acceleration of atherosclerosis, just as in we talked about in patients with a heart attack or coronary artery disease. There's a whole variety of lifestyle changes, and often these are integrated between the cardiologist and a good cardiac rehabilitation program. Medication management is tailored to the type of heart failure that a patient has, whether they have heart failure with preserved ejection fraction, as we already heard called HEF-PEF, or whether the heart failure patient has a reduced ejection fraction, so-called HEF-REF. And of course, medication management is tailored to the patient's symptoms and signs. If a patient has volume overload with dyspnea or peripheral edema, of course, they need diuresis, usually with a loop diuretic to remove excess fluid. For patients with a compelling indication for a specific type of antihypertensive medication, for example, if a patient has diabetes or chronic kidney disease, then an ACE inhibitor or an angiotensin receptor blocker should be used before starting HEF-PEF specific therapies, such as mineralocorticoid blockers or SGL2 inhibitors. Of course, you have to look carefully at the patient's renal function. If it is quite impaired, then ACE inhibitors or ARBs are contraindicated because they might make the renal failure worse. For patients without diabetes, then, heart failure specific medications are indicated. The next step is to add a sodium glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitor, SGLT2 inhibitor. I like to call them flozins because that's part of their generic name. Or, of course, and or mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist. SGL2 inhibitors are medications like empagliflozin or dapagliflozin. You notice the term flozin in the middle of those terms. A mineralocorticoid receptor antagonist or a mineral or MRA, as it's often known, such as spironlactone or pleranone can be added. If the patient has a systolic blood pressure below 100 or symptoms of hypotension, such as dizziness or other orthostatic symptoms, then other antihypertensive drugs should be decreased or discontinued. Otherwise, you're liable to have severe symptomatic hypotension. The primary therapies for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction are ACE inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers called ARBs or the combination medication of an angiotensin receptor blocker and a neprolisone inhibitor put together are called ANRIs. And the neprolisone inhibitor is known as sacubitril. And it's a blocker of the breakdown enzymes for atrial peptides. Thus, the ANRI drug is a double vasodilator. And again, you have to be careful about the blood pressure. Beta blockers should be added if there are no contraindications. And the specific three that have been demonstrated to benefit patients with heart failure are carvetilol, basoprolol, and extended-release metoprolol succinate. If patients have contraindications to any of the renin-angiotensin system's antagonists, an alternative is hydralazine plus a long-acting nitrate. A typical contraindication to the renin-angiotensin system antagonists is advanced renal failure because these drugs could increase the level of renal insufficiency. In patients who still have symptomatic heart failure, secondary therapies may be added in addition to the initial medications. And there's considerable current debate about the order that we give these drugs, which one should be first, which one second. And that is the subject of current ongoing heart failure research. These include the additional drugs that could be used. For example, mineralocorcoid receptor blockers, as we've already said, spironlactone and aplerinone, or the SGL2 inhibitors, again, that were just mentioned. In certain symptomatic patients, we may need to consider cardiac resynchronization therapy done with a special form of pacemaker that also stimulates the left ventricle as well as the right ventricle, or transcatheter mitral valve repair. For example, clipping a loose mitral leaflet that's allowing for severe mitral regurgitation. You clip that to another leaflet and thereby you decrease the amount of mitral regurg. Further secondary therapies, newer medications include Vero-Quatt or Avabradine. So, Vero-Quatt is indicated for patients with New York Heart Association class 2-4 heart failure, with an ejection fraction less than 45%, who were either hospitalized in the last six months, or require outpatient IV diuretics. Evabradine is a very interesting new class of medication called hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated channel blockers. What they do is they actually decrease the rate at which the sodium channel leaks in sinus node cells, and that results in a slowing of the heart rate. It's indicated for patients with an ejection fraction of 35% or less, who are in sinus rhythm, with a resting heart rate that's it. If beta blockers are either contraindicated or have caused problems, then you can substitute a slowing drug using Ivor-Bradine. Digoxin can be added to patients with end-stage heart failure, who are not doing well despite optimal other pharmacologic therapies, as well as cardiac resynchronization therapy. Lastly, mechanical circulatory support devices, such as left ventricular bypass pumps and intra-aortic balloons and even cardiac transplantation, may be considered in highly selected patients with refractory heart failure. And again, there's patient counseling. We already talked about the lifestyle. Alcohol is a depressant on the heart, so we want patients drinking as little, as little as possible. Smoking has to stop. We want weight control. We want regular exercise. All of the lifestyle things, again, repeated, to work with the medicines that we're giving, or to work with the interventions. For example, opening up a coronary artery or replacing a heart valve. And further patient counseling, of course, involves the medications. Are the patients taking the medications, and are they taking them regularly and as appropriately prescribed? This is a huge problem in the United States. Many patients fail to take their medications. If there are surgical or catheter interventions, what these contain, and what they can do, and what the potential complications are. One wants to reduce stress in the patient's life. One wants the patient to keep track of symptoms. Are they getting better? Are they getting worse? Is their weight gaining all of a sudden because of a marked increase in fluid retention? And, of course, we would like patients to not over-dulge in fluid intake, and certainly come for follow-up visits with the doctor or the nurse clinician, in order for us to monitor how things are going with therapy, and if we have to make further adjustments in therapy. So, in conclusion, heart failure is a growth industry, particularly in older individuals. It's caused by many diseases, but in particular by atherosclerotic heart disease that causes damage to the left ventricle. Again, left ventricular systolic heart failure is the commonest. The left ventricle doesn't squeeze as well, and the commonest cause of that is ischemic heart disease. Prevention, of course, is better than cure. I don't have to tell you that. And how do we prevent that? By controlling atherosclerotic risk factors before they put the patient in the heart failure situation. Of course, there's a whole variety of diagnostic tests that we use when the patient presents with heart failure. But remember, the clue is in the patient's symptoms with confirmation by the exam, and then we do some sophisticated tests to see what's the cause of the heart failure and how severe is the ventricular damage. And then we introduce a whole variety of therapies, both drugs and even some of the newer device therapies. For example, we can open up blood vessels, and even in extreme cases, we can take over with little pumps for the heart while we're trying to get it to respond and come back to normal. And of course, then we're going to have to do lifestyle changes. There's a new pacing protocol with a special pacemaker that in some selected patients can improve the pumping of the heart. All of these are fairly extreme things done right at the end. And again, we talked about the fact that there's a lot of technology here, but the best deal is to stop the heart failure before it starts with reduction in risk factors, or identifying it early and getting all of those things, including the lifestyle changes, implemented before the patient progresses to a point that they need things like biventricular pacing and heart-lung machines and so forth. Thank you for listening to this lecture. I look forward to seeing you with the next one. So let's start talking then about the drugs. The first class of drugs that I'm going to talk about are so-called beta blockers. What do I mean by a blocker? What's a blocker? Well, it turns out that on the surface of heart cells, as well as other cells in the body, there are little, let's call them keyholes, in which certain keys are fit, which then result in changes going on within the cell. So let me tell you one example. One example would be adrenaline. Adrenaline is released from nerve endings, and it's released from the adrenal glands. We're going to talk about that system in just a moment. But it's important to realize that when adrenaline plugs into the keyhole, into the receptor on the cell membrane, it results in a number of biochemical changes within that cell. And those biochemical changes are not just restricted to heart cells, but throughout the body. And of course, that can lead to the side effects or the complications that we just talked about. So why are beta blockers useful? Beta blockers are useful because they decrease heart rate, they decrease blood pressure, and they decrease heart contractility. And you're going to see what they do is they block some of the actions of the autonomic nervous system. Beta blockers were discovered by this man, Dr. James Black, who was a chemist with Imperial Chemistry Company in England in the 1960s. And by the way, for discovering beta blockers, he won the Nobel Prize in 1988. So what was the reason for developing beta blockers? Well, I think most of you are aware is that our entire circulatory system, our digestive system, many of the organs in the body are controlled by the brain. And one of the ways that the brain controls things is through something called the autonomic nervous system. I like to call it the automatic nervous system. It has two parts, a sort of an accelerator system and a brake system. The accelerator system, also called the flight or fight system, is the sympathetic nervous system. That's the one that squeezes out adrenaline when you're in a near car accident or when you're threatened by somebody. It revs up your blood pressure. It revs up your energy. You're ready to flight or fight. Now, the opposite effect occurs from the parasympathetic nervous system. That's when you eat a meal and you feel a little sleepy and you lie back and you relax. That nervous system increases the digestive activities, which, of course, are the exact opposite of what you'd want if you were flying or fighting. You'd want to be revved up, not lying back, relaxing and digesting. And these two nervous systems interact constantly depending upon what you're doing. If you're vigorously exercising, you're going to be turning on the sympathetic nervous system. If you're relaxing after eating a large meal, you're going to be turning off the sympathetic nervous system and turning on the parasympathetic nervous system. The parasympathetic nervous system is also run through a very large nerve that runs throughout the body called the vagus nerve. And sometimes it will actually activate at a time where it drops blood pressure and even can cause people to feel lightheaded or faint. That's a little excessive activity by the parasympathetic nervous system. Now, the excess activity on the part of the vagus system or the parasympathetic system can slow the heart. It can decrease the heart. It can decrease the blood pressure. And it basically sets you up for what we call a vegetative state. That is for a digestive resting state. The sympathetic nervous system, of course, does the opposite. It revs you up ready to fight or to flee depending upon the circumstances. Raises your blood pressure, increases your heart rate, increases the pumping activity of the heart, and starts putting a lot more blood flow into the muscles to get you ready to run away. So what do beta blockers do? Beta blockers block the effect of the sympathetic nervous system so that you can't increase your heart rate so much. You can't increase your contractility. You can't increase your blood pressure. Why would that work in a patient with ischemic heart disease, a patient with coronary artery disease? Of course. Remember we talked about the imbalance between the demand on the heart in terms of metabolic supply and the supply because of blocked artery. There's decreased supply. So what beta blockers do is by decreasing the metabolic demand of the heart, they reestablish the balance between cardiac demand and cardiac nutritional supply, oxygen and nutrients. They plug into the little receptors in the heart that speed up the heart. And when they do that, they stop adrenaline from getting into those receptors and therefore the heart rate doesn't increase, even though the sympathetic nervous system is pushing. Now, it turns out that there have been three levels or three classes of beta blockers. There are ones that are a little more specific for the heart. There are some that are a little less specific for the heart but more specific for the lung. There are some that are a mixture of heart and lung. And then there are some that are either a mixture for heart and lung but also dilate blood vessels and therefore even accentuate the drop in blood pressure. The first group, beta 1 receptor blockers, are used for angina and particularly also for patients with heart failure. Again, where you're trying to assist the heart a little bit by not making such high demands on it. The beta 2 receptor blockers are used in a variety of ways, also sometimes for heart disease, sometimes for arrhythmias and sometimes for hypertension. And the beta 3 group, the most recent ones, are used for heart failure patients. Again, they decrease the contractility of the heart, they decrease the blood pressure, they decrease the work of the heart so that a damaged heart can heal a little bit. We're going to talk about that some more in a moment. I don't expect you to read and memorize this list, but here it shows you all of the actions of the beta 1 and the beta 2 blockers. As you can see, they have actions throughout the body, on blood vessels, on the heart, on the lungs. And of course, what this means is it gives you potential for complications. Let's say we have a patient with high blood pressure and angina, that is the feeling of chest discomfort when there's an imbalance between blood supply and blood demand. We put the patient on beta blocker, but we forgot the patient has a history of asthma in the past. When we block the beta 2 in the lung, we make their asthma worse. So we did something good for the heart, but we did something bad for the lungs. So again, this list shows you all the different effects of beta blockers throughout the body, and a lot of them are potential sources for complications. Here in a little diagram, you see what I just said. In the top arrow, you can see the beta 1 or heart blocking effects. Reduces contractility, reduces blood pressure, makes the work of the heart less. You can also see in the second little drawing, the lungs. If there's beta 2 effects, you may increase the bronchial constriction, that is the constriction of the small tubes in the lung that lead to asthma. And then you can see down below, the beta blockers that dilate the blood vessels are particularly good for heart failure. Now let's think for a second about the potential of the nonspecific beta blockers, the one that block both beta 1 and beta 2. These are the ones that have the greatest potential for causing lung side effects when given for the heart. But it turns out that selectivity of beta 1 and beta 2, I call it semi-selectivity. Because if you take a beta 1 selective blocker and you give it at a very low dose, it's going to mostly block the beta receptors in the heart. But if you need to push the dose even into a moderate level, there's some spillover onto beta 2. So even if you are giving a beta 1 blocker to a patient with heart disease for angina or for hypertension or for heart failure, and that patient has a tendency to develop asthma, when you push the dose of that beta blocker into a reasonable range, you may well worsen their asthma. And almost the only way to find that out is to try it and see what happens, particularly if you have a real need for that beta blocker. And the same thing is true. Sometimes we give beta 2 stimulants to improve lung function by dilating the bronchioles, and sometimes that results in cardiac arrhythmias because of spillover in the beta 1 area. So again, all of these drugs are not perfectly selective. They have effects throughout the body. And again, this relates to the art of using these drugs because of their potential for effects in other parts of the body. This complex diagram right here shows you all the effects of beta blockers on the heart. I'm not going to spend a lot of time talking about it. You're welcome to look at it in great detail on your own, but you can see what happens in the heart with beta blockers. They decrease contractility. They decrease the heart rate. They help to prevent certain kinds of electrical short circuits, cardiac arrhythmias. We're going to talk about that later, particularly atrial fibrillation. In a sense, they quiet the heart down in a number of ways. They improve the metabolic balance, right? The demand-supply relationship within the heart. That stabilizes the situation in patients with ischemic heart disease. It helps patients who are hypertensive, that is, have too high blood pressure, gets them back down into a more normal range. And it generally quiets down the heart. Particularly, some individuals are prone to markedly increase their heart rate, even with small disturbances. And beta blockers also are very, very useful in helping in that regard. Here you see a summary of the full spectrum of cardiovascular effects of the beta blockers and their indications. Beta blockers are particularly useful for angina, for ischemic heart disease, for heart failure. Actually, we've seen sometimes hearts improve when patients have been treated with beta blockers for heart failure. And also for hypertension, all very effective. And then a little less effective for controlling arrhythmias and some of the other problems. But because angina and heart failure are so common, we use a lot of beta blockers. Fortunately, almost all of them now are generic, so they're relatively inexpensive. And usually in moderate doses, they're well tolerated. When you start to push the doses up, you increase the risk for effects in other organ systems and you increase the risk for complications. So let's talk a little bit about the mechanism of benefit of beta blockers in ischemic heart disease. That is, hardening of the arteries with blockage of blood flow into the heart muscle. Well, what we're trying to do is rebalance the situation, right? We can try and improve blood flow down the coronary arteries. We'll talk about a strategy to do that in a moment. But the most important effect is to try and decrease the demand of the heart for oxygen and nutrients. We do that by dropping the heart rate, by dropping the blood pressure, and by dropping contractility. So this is all three mechanisms work in the patient with ischemic heart disease. And very often, a patient who has angina with normal activity. For example, let's say climbing a flight of stairs, oh, they get chest discomfort. When we give them beta blockers, their heart rate doesn't accelerate as much when they go up the stairs. Their blood pressure doesn't rise as much. And they don't have angina now when they go up the stairs. And that's the goal, as you'll see when we talk about ischemic heart disease. We want patients who don't have symptoms, who can lead a normal active life, as long as they're not trying to race up and down stairs. But that they can do normal daily activities without having angina. Again, here you see a slide, quite complex, listing all of the beneficial effects and some of the potential non-beneficial effects of beta blocker in a patient with ischemic heart disease. You see the heart rate is down, the blood pressure is down. Unfortunately, what happens is sometimes because of the decreased contractility, the heart may dilate a little bit. And that has a tendency to increase myocardial oxygen consumption or myocardial oxygen demand for nutrients and oxygen. But that's a minor player in comparison to the decreases in the demand that you get from lowering heart rate and lowering blood pressure. So, again, you might want to peruse this slide in a little more detail at your leisure. And, of course, you can also read further about this in all the standard textbooks of cardiology and some of the references which we give at the end of this lecture. Now, what about the so-called antiarrhythmic effects of beta blockers? We haven't talked a lot about arrhythmias. Remember I showed you the cardiogram with the P wave, the QRS, and the T, P wave being the atrial depolarization, electrical depolarization, the QRS being the ventricular one. And that's the normal sequence of electrical activity passing through the heart. It turns out, particularly in older individuals and even occasionally in some younger individuals, you can have electrical, what I call electrical short circuits, in which suddenly the heart will start to race or there will be abnormal activity in the atria so you lose the P wave and the heart will race in a very abnormal way. Remember, I showed you an electrocardiogram of a patient in atrial fibrillation. Instead of the nice regular lub-dub, lub-dub, lub-dub, what you had was lub-dub-dub-dub-dub-dub-dub-dub-dub-dub-dub-dub-dub-dub-dub-dub-dub. And, of course, when that happens, the heart could be going as fast as 150 beats per minute. Even people with normal hearts will feel uncomfortable with that, and especially individuals who have a lack of normal blood flow getting into the heart because of coronary artery disease. When you increase the heart rate like that, it's very likely that they will develop an imbalance in the supply-demand relationship, angina, and they might even have a small heart attack. So we try and also control the arrhythmias, these atrial arrhythmias, and also some ventricular arrhythmias, and beta blockers often help with that. For example, early on in the phase of a heart attack, a myocardial infarction, the administration of beta blockers decreases the chance that the patient will have a cardiac arrest. We're going to talk a lot about arrhythmias in a total unit where we talk about diseases of the heart, and I'll also be talking about some therapy at that time. But it's important for you to realize that the beta blockers not only help to control the supply-demand imbalance in the heart with ischemic heart disease, not only can they help with high blood pressure, but they also can help control arrhythmias. They're not a powerful controller of arrhythmia, but they're much more benign than many of the other drugs that we use that have a lot of side effects. More about that in a later lecture. Let's talk about heart failure. This is a revolution that's occurred in the last 15 to 20 years. When I was in training, we were told, don't ever give a beta blocker to a patient with heart failure because it depresses the contractility, the oomph of the ventricle, and you're going to make the heart failure worse. Well, it turned out that in Sweden, the doctors weren't so convinced that beta blockers were a bad idea, and they did a series of large clinical trials in which they demonstrated that actually early on in heart failure, the beta blockers might have made things a little worse, but long term, many of the hearts remarkably improved. Well, this was a revolutionary thought. Something I'd been taught in medical school and training, don't ever give a beta blocker to a patient with heart failure, was now the exact opposite. You better be sure and give a beta blocker to a patient with heart failure. So what was the benefit there? Well, there were several benefits. First of all, again, even if the heart failure wasn't due to ischemic heart disease, to lack of blood flow in the heart, but was due to sick heart cells, by decreasing the work of the heart, decreasing the heart rate, decreasing the blood pressure, you actually allowed some of those heart cells to recover. In addition, by blocking the beta receptors on the surface of these heart cells, the myocardial cells, it actually caused the cells to produce more beta receptors, and then there was effect from the adrenaline hitting those beta receptors that increased the contractility of the heart when this was done long term. And, of course, then there was a decrease in arrhythmias as well. All that put together, beta blockers turned out to be a huge benefit in heart failure patients. And recently, over the last 10 to 15 years, the beta blockers that also dilate blood vessels and therefore lower the blood pressure have been shown to be the best beta blockers for patients with heart failure. I can tell you, and when I saw this the first time, I thought, I made a mistake. A patient that had terrible heart function, six months later, had normal heart function after being put on beta blockers. When this happened, I said to myself, I must have misremembered. I must have made a mistake. It couldn't have been that the heart function was that bad early on and now became normal. When we checked back, it turned out I was absolutely right. The heart failure state had been associated with bad left ventricular function initially, and it became normal after six months. And I've now seen that happen a number of times in a number of patients. Of course, the patients and their families are ecstatically happy when this happens. But even in people who don't totally normalize, there's often an improvement in heart function with beta blockers. It's the most important advance in heart failure therapy in the history of cardiology. In patients with heart failure, beta blockers are not used globally, but are part of the initial therapy for most patients with heart failure with a reduced ejection fraction, less than 50%, HEFREF. Beta blockers are not recommended as part of the primary therapy for heart failure with a preserved ejection fraction of 50%, so-called HEFPEF. Trials have been done, and they have not been effective. Unfortunately, they're very good for HEFREF, not good for HEFPEF. And the same is true for the angiotensin or renin blockers, ACE inhibitors, and ARB. They have been shown not to be helpful in patients with HEFPEF. You know, they can occasionally be used in HEFPEF to help treat angina or hypertension, but if it's just HEFPEF alone, they're not shown to be beneficial. And in fact, if you look at Eugene Brownwald, who's probably the number one cardiologist in the world and one of my mentors and teachers, if you look in his textbook, he says beta blockers are first choice, of course, for heart failure, of course, for ischemic heart disease, and for hypertension and arrhythmias as well, although hypertension and arrhythmias, they're sort of in second place. But for angina and heart failure, they're number one. Hello. Now I'm going to talk about one of my favorite topics, which is basic life support for cardiac arrest. So let's start off with a case scenario. We have a 58-year-old man. He's running along in a sporting event, and he suddenly drops, becoming pulseless and apneic. What do you want to do to save his life? We're going to talk about the most important interventions that you can perform right there on the scene that are most likely to improve his outcome. We're going to talk about why this happened physiologically, what might be going on with him. And we're going to talk about the supporting evidence that helps us know what the most effective interventions are. So what is cardiac arrest? The term cardiac arrest refers to the abrupt cessation of effective circulation. Basically, it means the heart is stopped. It encompasses a lot of different underlying diseases and conditions, but the final common pathway in each case is that the heart is not producing the effective circulation of blood to the body. So the primary cause of cardiac arrest, first and foremost, is coronary ischemia. The whole world over, that is the number one cause. But there are other things that can lead to cardiac arrest as well, including cardiomyopathies, structural heart lesions, such as valvular disease, electrical conduction abnormalities, such as Brugada syndrome or other channelopathies, metabolic disturbances, particularly those in electrolytes, toxic ingestions. There are a number of poisonings that can produce cardiac arrest. And there are other non-cardiac conditions that can lead the heart to stop. When we look at the epidemiology of cardiac arrest, in the United States, we have about half a million arrests per year. Of those, about 60% occur outside of the hospital. And for out-of-hospital arrests, there's only about a 10% survival rate, although that number does go up to 30% for cases which are witnessed by bystanders and the victim receives rapid CPR. About 200,000 of these events, or about a little more than a third, occur inside of the hospital. And in the hospital, we have a 20% survival rate, which is double what we get outside of the hospital, but it's still really not great. Obviously, that survival is going to be affected by the etiology of the arrest, the hospital itself, how prepared it is to deal with high acuity events, and believe it or not, the time of day. As far as the epidemiology goes, the incidence of cardiac arrest increases linearly with age. So as you get older, you have a higher and higher risk of having an arrest, and 57% or almost two-thirds of the patients are men. When you look at the cardiac rhythm in patients with cardiac arrest, about a quarter have either ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia, which are known as the shockable rhythms. Among those patients, you have about a 30% survival rate. The remaining rhythms, which are pulseless electrical activity and asystole, only produce about a 10% survival rate. So there's a big difference in how likely you are to survive based on what type of rhythm your heart goes into at the time of arrest. Overall, shockable rhythms represent a minority of arrests, only about 25%, but three-quarters of patients who survive have shockable rhythms. So you are much, much more likely to survive a cardiac arrest if you have ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia rather than one of the other two arrest rhythms. When you see somebody in cardiac arrest, they are invariably, 100% of the time, unresponsive, pulseless, and most commonly apneic, although a few will have preserved agonal respirations or gasping. When you're evaluating an unresponsive patient, you want to always get help right away. Not every patient who's unresponsive is in cardiac arrest, but you should assume the worst-case scenario. Assume that your patient is in cardiac arrest and that you need immediate backup. And even if your patient doesn't turn out to be in cardiac arrest, it's never a bad idea to get help because the things that make you unresponsive are never good. Once you have help on the way, the next question you want to ask yourself is, does this patient have a pulse? This is why, in cardiac arrest, we don't use the old ABC mnemonic that we talked about in prior lectures to assess the patient. We use CAB, circulation first, because the first and most important question is whether or not your patient has a pulse. We want to check the pulse for a maximum of 10 seconds, always in the carotid. And if at the end of that time, there either is no pulse or we have any question as to whether or not there's a pulse, we're going to go ahead and initiate CPR. Only after we've decided whether or not a pulse is present are we going to worry about airway and breathing. So while you're checking the pulse, you can look for clinical evidence of respiration. Again, sometimes you'll see agonal breathing or gasping, and rescuers often mistake this for normal breathing. But you should never see normal rhythmic breathing in a cardiac arrest. If you do, you should rethink whether or not your patient is really in cardiac arrest. So like I said, your most important question is whether a patient has a pulse. We're going to assess that by palpating the carotid pulse. The reason we go for the carotid is, in shock, this is the last pulse to go. So patients who are hypotensive but still do have spontaneous circulation might lose their radial or their femoral pulses, but they're always going to keep their carotid pulse up until the last moments before they cease to have circulation. Once again, you get a max of 10 seconds. If you don't clearly detect a pulse in that time frame, start CPR. You're never going to hurt a patient by performing unnecessary CPR, but you will absolutely hurt people by withholding CPR when, in fact, they don't have spontaneous circulation. Now we're going to talk about the second part of cardiac arrest or advanced life support. So there are three major cardiac arrest rhythms that we need to be aware of. Ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia, pulseless electrical activity, and asystole. And we're going to talk in some detail about each of those three, identifying some of the key similarities and differences between them. Let's start off with V-fib and V-tach. So these rhythms both represent disorganized electrical conduction, which originates in the ventricles. There's a number of different causes for ventricular fibrillation and tachycardia, but they're most strongly associated with primary heart disease, in particular coronary ischemia, so myocardial infarctions, et cetera. However, you can also see V-fib and V-tach in the setting of structural heart disease, inherited channelopathies, and other clinical situations. Least commonly, you see V-fib and V-tach with systemic metabolic derangements, things like electrolyte disturbances, autoimmunity, toxic ingestions, but that's really quite rare. The vast majority of these are caused by heart attacks. So here's just a review on ventricular fibrillation. Like we said in the last lecture, this is one of our two shockable rhythms. So this is randomly fluctuating, completely disorganized electrical activity, no pattern, no QRS complexes. The heart is literally just going in the chest. It's not actually beating, meaning that there's no cardiac output whatsoever associated with this because the heart's not contracting. This rhythm, if it's not terminated, is completely incompatible with life. By contrast, here's V-tach. So we mentioned this in a prior lecture as well, but V-tach is organized. It's just bizarre. So these QRS complexes are big and tall and wide, but they are organized and they are regular. Now, you want to think about V-tach anytime you see tachycardia, meaning a heart rate of greater than 100, most commonly greater than 150. That means your QRS complexes are going to be coming along more than every three millimeters on your tracing or more than every two millimeters in the case of a heart rate of 150. In this case, again, the QRS is wide, so it's got to actually be wider than three millimeters to be considered V-tach, but usually it's pretty obvious. These are big, wide, very strange-looking complexes. And patients in V-tach can be completely pulseless, apneic, and dead. They can be completely stable and in some cases asymptomatic, or they can be anywhere in between. So the important thing with V-tach is when we talk about it in the context of cardiac arrest, we're talking specifically about pulseless V-tach, meaning we don't want to treat V-tach in a patient with a pulse, especially a stable patient, the same way as we would in a pulseless patient. Clearly, a stable, conscious patient is going to hate if we start CPR on them. All right, so single most important intervention for V-fib and V-tach. We alluded to this before, but I want to emphasize again, it is to defibrillate. Defibrillate. Now, the great thing about defibrillation is this is such an important intervention. We've started putting defibrillators in public places all over the world. So you can now find defibrillators in shopping malls, at sports stadiums, in the back seats of police cars, all kinds of places around the world where first responders can access them easily and use them quickly to save lives when needed. So we're going to go through the V-fib and V-tach algorithm now in some detail. So first and foremost, when you have a cardiac arrest, you're going to want to get help right away and you're going to want to initiate CPR, the highest quality CPR you can possibly manage. Next priority is to get your hands on a defibrillator as quickly as you can and to administer a shock for V-fib or V-tach. We don't shock other rhythms, but for these rhythms, electricity is key. Your next maneuver is going to be to continue CPR for five cycles or two minutes before you perform another rhythm check. At that point, if you're still in a shockable rhythm, you're going to administer yet another shock. And this is also when you're going to give a vasopressor drug like epinephrine. After that, we're going to continue CPR for another five cycles or two minutes where once again, we check the rhythm, we defibrillate if we're still in a shockable rhythm, and now we're going to think about use of antiarrhythmic drugs, in particular, amiodarone. Thanks for tuning in. Thank you.