Let's take a look now at the grandpositive solution in some detail so we can understand how it works. The outer layer of the grandpositive bacteria consists of this thick layer of pepidoglycan which can also be called murine. Embedded in the murine layer are what we call tacoic acids and lipotcoic acids. There are also proteins on the outer surface of the pepidoglycan. And of course all this is on top of the cell membrane which is a typical lipid billayer made of phospholipids. Uh there are proteins that are embedded in this membrane and we'll talk about those functions in a m minute minute. So here is an overview of this whole Graham positive solution. Again the thick murine on top of the cell membrane and the function of the meine is to protect the cell membrane. It excludes hydrophobic chemicals which tend to be the dangerous ones. So let's look at this in a little more detail. So the thick cell wall again is called the pepidoglycan or mureine. It's a polymer of sugars and amino acids. This structure is unique to bacteria. We don't find it anywhere else in the kingdom of life. And that's why we can target its synthesis using antibiotics. And we'll talk about that in another lecture. As I said, this cell wall is hydrophilic. So hydrophilic compounds which the bacteria need can pass through it. But hydrophobic compounds which are typically the dangerous ones are excluded. So for example we have in our intestines bile salts to help us digest. These are very detrimental to bacteria but the pepidoglycan actually can resist the bile salt. So many bacteria can pass through our stomach and intestine to infect us. This outer layer of the grandpositive bacteria, the pepidoglycan or the mureine is a polymer that forms a very protective sack around the bacterium. It consists of glycan chains of alternating anacetil glucosamine and acetil neuromminic acid which you can see here. And there are many layers of these sugars. They're connected together by two short peptides made up of short amino acids. So this basically gives us a two-dimensional network which is sort of like the chain mail that knights used to wear over them that was made of metal to protect them. You can imagine the murine or the peptoglycan is really something very similar. Now remember that this thick layer is sitting over the cell membrane. the murine or the pepidoglycan what we call the cell wall embedded in it are tyco acids or lipotyic acids. These are polymers of a sugar alcohol either ribbl or glycerol linked by phosphodiester bonds and these molecules play a role in pathogenesis. They allow the bacteria to adhere to specific tissues. These are the components of these tyco acids. On the left is glycerol tyco acid. In the bracket is the basic subunit, the glycerol. And then that is repeated over and over to make the long chain. And they're linked by phosphodiester bonds. On the right is ribblic acid. It's a different glycerol alcohol. It happens to be a bit longer. You just completed your first video of the world's best medical exam preparation. Lecturio brings the knowledge of worldwide leading medical experts and teaching award winners to your PC, tablet or smartphone. Prepare yourself and check your progress with thousands of quiz questions customized to USMLE standards. And the very best, you can get in touch with our medical experts personally. Visit lecturo.com now and continue with the most inspiring medical education around the globe. Anytime, anywhere.