 evitienienien. Now we're going to talk about the overall approach to the traumatically injured patient. Management of trauma always begins with a primary survey. The primary survey is a standardized way of performing your initial assessment of all trauma patients, and it should be done exactly the same way every single time in every single case so you don't miss anything. There are two major goals of the primary survey. One is to identify life threats quickly, and two is to provide stabilization when life threats are identified. It's very important to remember that the primary survey isn't just about diagnosis. It involves simultaneous assessment and treatment of the patient to ensure that they remain stable and that life threats are quickly addressed. The primary survey follows the same order every time. It begins with airway, followed by breathing, circulation, disability, and lastly, exposure of the patient and assessment of the environment. So when we talk about assessing the airway, the first thing to do is simply speak to the patient. Gask them their name, get them to tell you what happened to them. Any patient who's able to talk by definition has a patent airway, and that's clearly a good sign. However, remember, just because you have a patent airway right now doesn't mean you're going to have a patent airway 15 or 30 minutes from now. So you want to not only identify current airway obstruction, but also risks for potential future airway obstruction. What if the patient's not actually talking to you? Well, the question you should ask yourself is why. If the patient is unconscious or unresponsive, then that suggests a head injury, and if they have a significantly depressed GCS, you probably want to go ahead and provide definitive airway management in the form of intubation. If the patient is conscious, but they're unable to phonate, they're trying to speak, but they're... This is a sign of significant airway injury, and you want to make sure that you address that quickly. This is a situation where you're going to want to emergently intubate the patient or otherwise manage the airway if intubation is impossible. So what are the kinds of things we're looking for in terms of airway life threats? Well, for patients who have a currently patent airway, but you want to know whether they're going to lose their airway in the future, things you want to look for are swelling. So any kind of hematoma in the face and neck, any kind of edema in the face or neck, these can compress the airway. You want to look for bleeding. In particular, nasopharyngeal bleeding that's going from the pharynx back into the oral cavity can cause aspiration. So we want to be aware of that and address it. And then lastly, we want to palpate for crepitus. And we do that by feeling for that crispy, crunchy feeling in the neck and upper chest. This suggests some kind of injury to the airway structures, either the larynx or the trachea, which, again, would mandate definitive airway management. While we're thinking about the airway, we always want to think about the cervical spine. So the cervical spine should be immobilized in trauma patients in case they do have an injury. And any time a patient has a high C-spine injury, they can actually lose their respiratory drive. There's a rhyme, C345 keeps the diaphragm alive. So patients who have injuries in those regions of the spinal cord might have impaired respiration, not because of an airway problem, but because of difficulty breathing from diaphragmatic paralysis. Lastly, we just want to think about burns. We have a whole separate lecture about burns, and we'll talk about the burned airway there. But for patients who do have any kind of burn as part of their trauma, you want to just remember that thermal injury can cause airway edema, and inhalational injury can cause damage to the lungs, which in turn can make the patient hypoxic. So these are all things that you want to think about for the airway of an injured patient. Whenever you do identify airway compromise, either currently or you think it's going to imminently develop, you want to go ahead and intubate your patient. However, in trauma, there's often distortion of the normal anatomy. If the patient has swelling or bleeding or facial fractures, those kinds of things, the airway might be very technically challenging. And to further add to our technical challenges, we have to maintain spinal immobilization. We can't just crank the patient's neck in any direction because we don't know whether or not they have an underlying injury. So you need to be really proficient with airway management if you are going to tackle a trauma airway. And if this isn't something you have a lot of experience with, you probably want to get backup from an anesthesiologist. Although for emergency physicians, of course, we would expect this is something you would be able to handle. Always bear in mind that if you're unable to intubate successfully in a non-invasive way, you need to think about the possibility of a surgical airway. So a surgical cricothyroidomy would be the procedure we would use for patients who have severe facial or neck injuries that preclude intubation. And again, if you're going to be managing trauma airways, this is a procedure that you need to master. Now, we're going to move on to breathing. And I'll tell you in my 15 years of practice experience, I can tell you that traumatic injuries to the airway are actually relatively rare. I've only seen a handful in all my years of practice. Whereas pulmonary injuries, chest injuries that lead to respiratory compromise, these are very common. And these are something that you see regularly in the emergency department. So airway is incredibly important. And airway injuries are really life-threatening. But breathing is where you're going to find more pathology and more often need to intervene. When you're assessing a patient's breathing and trauma, one of the first things you want to do is listen to their breath sounds bilaterally. And what you're listening for are the presence of equal bilateral breath sounds on both sides of the chest. You also want to look and just get an overall feel for their respiratory effort. You know, of course, you're going to note their respiratory rate and you're probably going to pay attention to specifically what they're doing when they're breathing. But at the beginning, if you just get a visceral sense of whether they're kind of chilling, breathing comfortably, or if they're working really hard to breathe, they're using additional muscles and they're having to pull air in, that should give you a sense of the severity of their respiratory compromise. You, of course, want to count the respiratory rate. Again, this is a vital sign that is often documented incorrectly and one that you really want to double-check yourself. And you should always be concerned about a patient with significant tachypnea because that's somebody who could tire out and really get themselves into trouble shortly. And then lastly, your respiratory vital sign is your oxygen saturation. The whole purpose of the lungs is to get oxygen into the blood. So you need to know if they are fulfilling that purpose effectively or not. While we're assessing breathing, we want to be looking for evidence of pulmonary life threats. And there are four major ones we want to think about. Tension pneumothorax is by far the most common and most serious in the trauma setting. But you can also see open pneumothoraces, flail chest, which is always associated with underlying pulmonary contusion, and then massive hemothorax. Whenever you suspect that a patient has a compromise of their breathing, we always want to initiate supplemental oxygen. You should give them whatever flow they need to keep their oxygen saturation normal, which is typically going to be above 95% for somebody with healthy lungs. You also want to initiate emergency treatment for any patient in whom you identify a life-threatening pulmonary injury. Now, we have a whole other lecture on chest trauma, and I'm not going to get into each of these too much right now. But there are immediate interventions for each one of these injuries that you can perform during the primary survey to stabilize your patient. Once your patient is stable and you're satisfied you don't have an immediate life threat in the pulmonary domain, we want to get a chest X-ray to evaluate their lungs and get a sense of what's going on with them from a pulmonary injury standpoint. But we don't want to be getting chest X-rays until we're satisfied that the patient is stable. Moving on to C. Circulatory insufficiency is very common in trauma. Obviously, trauma is associated with bleeding. So we very often see patients who have significant blood loss and circulatory compromise as a result of that. The things you want to look for when you're thinking about a patient's circulation is just their overall appearance. Are they pink and perky or are they pale or cyanotic or altered? These are things that should help you get sort of an overall global sense of the adequacy of their perfusion. You can also look at things like capillary refill and obviously you want to look for signs of external bleeding because a patient who has a wound that's actively hemorrhaging, you're clearly going to want to control that bleeding before you do much of anything else. We also want to feel their peripheral pulses. And the peripheral pulses are really important because they give you a quick sense of the patient's blood pressure, which is really the bottom line on the adequacy of their perfusion. So a patient who has a nice, bounding, easily palpable dorsalis pedis pulse has a systolic blood pressure of 90 or more. So that's a pretty quick way if you feel those dorsalis pedis pulses and you're satisfied that they're palpable and normal, that is a pretty quick way to say, yeah, you know what, my patient's circulatory status is probably adequate at least right at this moment. Moving farther proximally, radial pulses indicate a systolic of at least 80. Femorals can indicate a systolic of at least 70. And you don't lose your carotid pulse until your systolic goes below 60. So really getting a feel for which pulses are present and which pulses are absent can give you a pretty accurate sense of what your patient's blood pressure is and whether or not their perfusion is adequate. Of course, once you get your patient hooked up to the monitor, you want to know what their heart rate is and you want to know what their blood pressure is because these are our circulatory vital signs and they're going to be used to guide our resuscitation and help us decide whether or not our resuscitative efforts are effective. So our big circulatory life threat, like I already mentioned, is going to be hemorrhagic shock. Trauma is strongly associated with blood loss and this is by far the most common cause of death among traumatically injured patients. However, we want to consider other causes of shock as well, specifically tension pneumothorax and cardiac tamponade. Both of these are forms of obstructive shock where the injury prevents normal blood flow back to the heart from the venous circulation and impairs cardiac output that way. Again, we're going to talk about both of these disease entities in some detail in future lectures, but you should be aware that not all shock in trauma is going to be related to hemorrhage. There are these other disease processes that can lead to shock. All right. While we're managing circulation, I already alluded to this before, but clearly if a patient has blood spurting out of a wound, you're going to want to apply some direct pressure to that to get that bleeding under control. This is going to be one of our immediate maneuvers that we do during the primary survey to stabilize the patient. In addition, we want to make sure that our patient has adequate IV access. This means two large boroperipheral IVs. So you don't want just one. You want two because you want to back up in case yours falls out or infiltrates. You want to make sure they're large borer so that you can get a lot of fluid through them if you need to. If you can't get large borer peripheral access, you have other alternatives. You can place an intraosseous line or you can place a trauma line, which is a specialized central venous catheter that's very large in diameter and allows large volume resuscitation. When you do initiate fluid, you're always going to start with isotonic crystalloid. So generally normal saline or lactated ringers for most patients. Now, every now and then, if you know up front there was a large amount of blood loss, either because the patient is actively losing blood right in front of you or because the paramedics report that there was a lot of blood at the scene, you might consider going straight to blood transfusion. But generally, we're going to start off with isotonic crystalloid and only move on to blood if we don't get a satisfactory response from crystalloid. Again, we're also going to be looking for specific injury patterns and we're going to be providing treatments based on those underlying injuries. We're going to talk about tension in the thorax and cardiac tamponade in future lectures. So don't worry too much about that right now, but understand that certain disease processes have specific treatments that you need. You're not just going to treat all hypotension or shock with fluid. All right, moving on to our disability assessment. So once we've covered A, B, and C, the next thing we want to think about is our patient's neurologic status. So we always want to formally assess their level of consciousness. The Glasgow Coma Scale is what's used most commonly for this, and we're going to talk about that in some detail in our head injury lecture. However, you can also use the abbreviated AVPU Scale, which stands for alert, verbal, pain, or unresponsive, meaning your patient is alert and normal. They respond only to verbal stimuli. They respond only to painful stimuli, or they're completely unresponsive. And as you can imagine, patients who only respond to pain or don't respond at all are clearly very ill, and you should be very concerned about them. While we're doing our neurologic survey, we always want to look at the pupils. Pupillary function gives us a sense of whether the patient has a focal neurologic lesion or not. We want to look for forextremity movement to make sure that there's not any evidence of neurologic focality that might suggest a brain or a spinal cord injury. We want to look for external signs of head or neck trauma that might point us in the direction of a significant head or neck injury. And lastly, if our patient is in any way, shape, or form altered, we want to check their glucose. Now, clearly, trauma doesn't make you hypoglycemic. But remember, trauma is always precipitated by some event, right? And it's not uncommon that people with medical illnesses will sustain trauma. So if your patient became hypoglycemic, that made them confused, and then they crashed their car, you know, clearly they're going to have both the medical problem that precipitated the event as well as the traumatic injury for you to deal with. So you want to make sure that you're considering the big picture for your patient, checking their glucose and checking for other signs of medical illness that might have contributed to the current event today. All right. So what are we going to do initially in our primary survey for patients who show signs of significant neurologic impairment? Well, first and foremost, if their GCS is below 8, we want to go ahead and intubate. Patients who are significantly comatose are not going to be able to maintain their own airways. So it's very, very important that we manage the airway and make sure that the patient maintains a stable airway for the duration of their care. We're also, of course, going to optimize their oxygenation and their perfusion. So we're going to be giving them supplemental oxygen. If they're intubated, we're going to be placing them on a ventilator. And we're going to give fluids, blood, et cetera, to ensure that they have adequate systemic perfusion. We do want to obtain emergent cranial imaging for any patient who has a significant neurologic disability on our evaluation. And the test of choice is really non-contrast head CT. But obviously, we're not going to initiate that until the patient is stable from an ABC perspective. And again, there are specific disease entities that we're looking for. And how we manage those is going to vary depending on our CT findings. So we're going to talk in more detail about how we would approach each one of these injury types as we move forward. Lastly, after we've covered A, B, C, and D, we want to think about exposing the patient. This is really, really important. You've got to take all their clothes off. You've got to get all the coverings off. You don't want to miss any injuries. And I can't tell you how many times in my own practice I've seen injuries that are missed because people don't undress their patients. So get the clothes off. Get the sheets off. Get a good look head to toe at the patient's entire skin. While you're doing that, however, you want to avoid hypothermia. So hypothermia causes coagulopathy and exacerbates bleeding and trauma. So you want to expose your patient and look at them. But once you've done that, get them covered up again. Make sure you keep the room warm. Make sure you use warm blankets because trauma patients can actually become hypothermic very quickly. Lastly, you're going to complete a head-to-toe exam. So you want to make sure that you look not only at the obvious stuff, but in all the nooks and crannies. You want to look up in the axillae, in the peritoneum. You want to roll the patient over to examine the back, obviously, while maintaining C-spine immobilization. And you want to also make sure you get a look at the back of the head and the neck, which is especially important in patients wearing cervical collars. We often miss those if we don't remove the collar to examine the patient. So take-home points from this lecture. You've got to do a primary survey in all of your trauma patients. You've got to do it the same way every single time so that you don't miss things. You've got to be super systematic about this. You want to make sure that you look for specific life threats in the A, B, C, and D domains. And you want to treat those as you identify them. You want to know the differential of consequence for A, B, C, and D so that you know what you're looking for when you are doing your primary survey. And if you follow these steps, you're going to have a successful trauma resuscitation for all of your patients. With that, let's talk about the cardiovascular exam. So when you know the cardiac exam, many things are possible. Now, what do I mean by that? Many things are possible is actually not just a statement of fact. It's also an acronym. It's a useful way to remember the heart valves. Many things are possible is M-T-A-P. Let me just draw that here. M-T-A-P. P. Those letters represent the sequence of closing of the four heart valves in the heart. The mitral, the tricuspid, the aortic, and the plumonic. And using that acronym, many things are possible. You'll remember which sequence those valves are closing. You'll also remember where they're located. This is a circle. M-T-A-P. M-T-A-P. Which helps us to keep track of where we are when we're listening for particular murmurs and trying to find the etiology of a particular murmur that we hear based on the location on the interior chest wall. And then we're going to listen to diastole, the space between S2 and S1. And I found it really important when you're auscultating the chest to make sure you really very deliberately listen to one thing at a time. First the heart sounds, then systole, then diastole. That helps you to avoid the common mistake of getting so sucked into a very loud systolic murmur that you neglect to hear that more subtle diastolic murmur that's happening afterwards. So with that opening outline, heart sounds, systole, diastole, let's start off by talking about the heart sounds. So S1 and S2, lub-dub, lub-dub. As we said before, many things are possible. So M and T are the first heart sounds. So that must represent S1. And then AP represent the second heart sound, S2. These are paired together because they're so closely occurring in space. All we hear is a lub, not two different sounds, just the lub. And then the dub is the A and the P. Now normally, when you are simply breathing, just comfortable, tidal, volume breathing, the mitral and tricuspid valves are closing almost perfectly synchronously. However, the aortic and the pulmonic valve will actually separate or split during the respiratory cycle, specifically during inspiration. So what happens is, if this is S1 here, mitral and tricuspid, and this is your S2, aortic and pulmonic, when the person takes a deep breath, the aortic and the pulmonic will actually separate, like so. And that's normal physiology. And that's driven by the fact that when you take a deep breath, you're creating a negative space in his chest that's actually drawing more blood to the right side of the heart. If there's more blood on the right side of the heart, it's going to take longer for that pulmonic valve to close until the pulmonic valve moves farther away in time, while the aortic valve stays largely in the same place. That's called physiologic splitting. We expect to hear that. When you're listening to the chest in this area, you should listen and make sure that when he's inspiring, when he's inhaling, that second heart sound does split like that. In contrast, there are some instances where, for example, the aortic valve may actually be displaced in time, particularly with a left bundle branch block. Now, if you have a left bundle branch block, the left ventricle is going to contract later than it's supposed to. So rather than having your S1 here and your S2 here with aortic and pulmonic valve, these two are actually flipped like so. The aortic valve is now over here and the pulmonic valve is here. So when this person takes a deep breath, the pulmonic valve moves over. So what you're hearing is paradoxic. You're hearing during inspiration the two heart sounds moving closer together. And that's because the pulmonic valve is moving the way it's supposed to, but the aortic valve is so delayed by the bundle branch block that you hear the pulmonic valve catching up with it during inhalation. So that's called paradoxic splitting that you'll see with left bundle branch block and a few other conditions. We're not going to go into all the details of the different things that can cause abnormal splitting, but I just wanted to highlight that that's an important thing you can pick up on by just listening very closely to those heart sounds. Importantly, the S1 and S2 heart sounds are higher in pitch than some other sounds that you might hear. And this leads me to a very important quick brief on your stethoscope. Your stethoscope has two heads on it. You've got a bell. You've got a diaphragm. These are useful in different circumstances. In particular, the bell of your stethoscope is most useful for low-pitched sounds. It actually, by putting the bell on the chest and creating a seal, you are filtering out a lot of the higher-pitched sounds. In contrast, the diaphragm is useful for hearing all of the different pitches within the heart, though with potentially a little bit of a focus on some of the higher-pitched sounds. So when you're using the diaphragm, you're thinking higher pitch. The bell, you're thinking lower pitch. So I just said that the S1 and S2 heart sounds, we know that they're... We're going to best hear S2 up here. We're going to best hear S1 down here. And typically, you're listening with the diaphragm because they're both higher-pitched sounds. Like so. So... Now, in some patients, you may find that rather than just hearing this simple lub-dub, lub-dub, lub-dub, maybe you hear an extra sound, something like a b-lub-dub, b-lub-dub, b-lub-dub. That is an extra heart sound, in this case a b- occurring before the lub, and that's called an S4. It immediately proceeds systole, and it's called a fourth heart sound. It's part of the atrial kick. What's happening when you hear an S4 is that the left ventricle has fully filled during diastole. You've had diastolic filling. And at the end of diastole, the left atrium is contracting and spitting out that last volume of blood from the atrium, but it's hitting against a stiff left ventricular wall. And this is something that you'll hear in patients with left ventricular hypertrophy, potentially hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy, and it's a very characteristic feature that you'll find in a lot of folks, and it does portend or suggest that a patient does have one of those conditions. Importantly, that bilub-dub, the b, is a lower-pitched sound. And as I said before, that means you're going to best catch it with the bell of your stethoscope. Before we find it, though, let's just quickly talk about the other kind of abnormal gallop that you might hear. Rather than lub-dub, lub-dub, lub-dub, you might hear a lub-de-bub, lub-de-bub, lub-de-bub, lub-de-bub. Essentially, that is a sound happening right after S2. So rather than lub-dub, it's lub-de-bub, lub-de-bub. And you can tell that that bub is coming right after the duh, which would have been a dub, and that is an indication of an S3, a third heart sound. Now, a third heart sound is also emanating from the left ventricle, down here at the apex of the heart. And rather than being associated with left ventricular hypertrophy, it's typically found in acute systolic heart failure with left ventricular dilation, potentially increased filling pressures, and almost always some evidence of systolic heart failure, whether it's in the setting of ischemic cardiomyopathy, or potentially if somebody has aortic regurgitation with a surplus of blood backfilling into the heart, and then has to be ejected. So that sound is also heard at the apex, which is where, of course, the left ventricle is going to be best heard. And it's also a low-pitched sound, just like the S4. So the ideal way to bring about that sound, it's going to be with the bell, and since we really want to try and accentuate that sound, because it can be very subtle to hear, we're actually going to reposition our patient and lie him in the left lateral decubitus position to really bring out that heart sound. With that, let's take a listen to the apex of the heart. All right, so now that we have Sean in the left lateral decubitus position, this is the ideal place for us to try to pick up a third or fourth heart sound. I've got the bell of my stethoscope lightly applied to his chest, simply to provide a seal. If I push too hard, I'm actually just creating a diaphragm out of the skin. So you just want to have light pressure, at the apex, and that's it. Now, there's a couple different positions that you may see over the course of this next few minutes. Depending upon what you're looking for, you may have him lying in the left lateral decubitus position, you may have him sitting upright, you may have him lying flat. In general, you don't want to have to repeat the entire cardiac exam in all three positions. So as we go through each murmur, each type of valvular disease, I'll talk about which positions may be most appropriate. The deep understanding of human anatomy is one of the most important areas for all students, as well as professionals, interested in the human body. To understand this extensive topic, it is absolutely necessary that you learn the basic concepts and be able to relate these to functional anatomy. In this course, you will enter the exciting world of anatomy. Throughout this course, you will gain all the essential knowledge of the anatomy from basics to this advanced level. In several lectures, you're going to increase your knowledge about the human trunk, the limbs, and many more. With the modular structure of this course and the use of high-quality illustrations, animations, and other media, you will become fluent in human anatomy. Your progress will be supported by Lecturio's adaptive learning platform so that you will achieve your learning goals. You'll be provided with additional questions and material for download so you can learn wherever and whenever you want with Lecturio's mobile apps. This will help you to consolidate your learning and successfully complete your course. And now, well, join me and enter into the exciting world of anatomy. Hi, we're going to be talking about the approach to abdominal pain for patients who present to the emergency department. So, abdominal pain in the emergency department, it's actually the most common chief complaint in the United States. So, this is the most common thing that you're going to be seeing coming through the doors of the ED. It represents approximately 25% of ED visits. And it's the percentage of non-injury abdominal pain visits that's actually on the rise. So, this is something that potentially can increase in numbers over the next few years rather than decrease. So, we're going to be seeing lots of patients coming in with discomfort in their abdomen. Now, again, we always want to make sure when we're thinking about presenting complaints and patients presenting to the emergency department that we always go back to the basics. And that is airway, breathing, and circulation. Now, you might be thinking that airway and breathing might not necessarily play a role here. But due to the fact that there's such a wide range of things that can cause abdominal pain, we actually always want to make sure that we're thinking in this stepwise fashion. Because if we start to not think in that stepwise fashion, that's when we get ourselves into trouble. Circulation can definitely play a role here, especially in settings where you're concerned that someone could have a life-threatening cause of their abdominal pain, such as a AAA. So, we always want to make sure that we're thinking about this. One of the biggest challenges when patients come to the emergency department for abdominal pain is that there's such a wide range of things that can be causing the abdominal pain. And they vary from things that are benign, things like GERD or gastroesophageal reflux, a viral illness that for the most part, most patients can really tolerate on their own. They may be uncomfortable, they might have some belly pain and some vomiting and diarrhea, but for the most part, patients will be okay. Then they range to more serious things, such as appendicitis, bowel obstruction, diverticulitis, pancreatitis, and kidney stones. And these potentially have very serious implications. Some of these require surgical interventions, some of these require admission to the hospital for IV antibiotics, IV fluid replacement. Pancreatitis can become very severe and can really cause serious problems for patients down the line. Kidney stones can lead to obstruction and urinary tract infections, which can then lead to sepsis. So we definitely need to make sure that we're thinking about these more serious causes. And then, if that's not enough, we move on to the fact that abdominal pain can actually be related to life-threatening conditions. So an abdominal aortic aneurysm can cause abdominal pain. And that is obviously something that can be very, very serious and life-threatening for a patient. Patients can bleed out very rapidly from abdominal aortic aneurysms that rupture. A ruptured ectopic pregnancy also poses significant challenges. Perforation of the GI tract, that's something that requires emergent surgical intervention. The patient needs to go to the operating room emergently. So when we're thinking about patients who come into the emergency department with belly pain, we have to be thinking about this whole spectrum of things. We can't just be thinking about the benign things or the life threats. We have to be thinking about all the things that are benign, more serious, and then those life-threatening conditions. Because if we're not thinking broadly in this situation, that's how we run into problems and we come up with a misdiagnosis. We come up with an incorrect diagnosis. So always maintaining that high level of suspicion. You know, there are also extra abdominal things that can cause abdominal pain. So things outside the belly. So as if things weren't complicated enough already, we're going to go ahead and complicate them even further. Myocardial infarction is a classic example of extra abdominal things presenting with belly pain. Classically, inferior wall MIs, so an inferior wall myocardial infarction, is the classic thing that we think about presenting with epigastric abdominal pain and nausea and vomiting. And I would say you could probably ask every emergency medicine physician if they've ever seen an inferior MI present with primarily abdominal pain symptoms. And I would say that we would all say yes. I can think of a handful of times that patients were presenting with epigastric belly pain, got an EKG, and it turned out to be an ST elevation MI in the inferior distribution. You always just have to keep it in the back of your mind that epigastric pain can potentially be an MI, especially in the appropriate patient population. And especially if your patient appears ill, if they're diaphoretic, if they're sweaty, if they're pale, those are the patients so you want to get that EKG a little bit more rapidly. Ketoacidosis is another very serious and life-threatening condition that could potentially cause abdominal pain. So classically, diabetic ketoacidosis. So a diabetic patient that is having ketoacidosis, that is producing ketone bodies and their blood is acidotic. By a similar pathway, alcoholic ketoacidosis can cause abdominal pain as well. Diabetic patients, patients who drink alcohol regularly, you want to be thinking about this and you want to be potentially working your patient up for it. Pneumonia, especially in pediatrics. So especially for those younger kids, can present just with abdominal pain. So be thinking about pneumonia. Herpes zoster, or shingles, can actually present with pain in lots of different areas. So sometimes it's like a red herring in chest pain presentations. Sometimes it's a red herring in abdominal pain presentations as well. This is a time where you want to make sure you ask a patient, have you seen a rash on your body? And also where you want to sometimes inspect the abdomen. Again, this is something where every so often, you go ahead and you take a look at the belly and you see in that dermatomal distribution shingles in that area where that patient is complaining of pain. So just make sure you keep it in the back of your mind and that you're thinking about that when someone comes in complaining of pain. You know, the classic pain with herpes zoster is kind of like people describe it as an itchy, burning sort of a discomfort. So even more so when they describe their pain in that way. Other things, glaucoma. I know, that seems like a total outlier. But someone having elevated intraocular pressure can cause abdominal pain. This is why we, you know, it's really important to talk with our patients. Find out if they're having pain in their eye. Malignancies, potentially. Henoch-Schonlein purpurer. More common in pediatrics but can be seen in adult patients. The classic association with that is that patients will have a purpurer crash, most commonly on the lower extremities. And then testicular and ovarian torsion. We'll be talking about those concepts in another lecture, but it's important to always ask about any pain in the testicles, especially for those adolescent male patients. So abdominal pain is not all created equal. There's different kinds of ways that patients are going to explain pain and it all has to go back to embryology. So it all has to go back with how the organs developed. So there's visceral pain and visceral pain originates in the hollow organs and the capsules of the solid organs. This corresponds to embryonic development. Pain generally related to visceral pain is a dull or achy pain. Parietal pain is due to stretching or irritation of the parietal peritoneum. So that's the lining of the parietal, of the peritoneal cavity. This pain is generally sharper. So it's more like a sharp or stabbing kind of a pain. Then the referred pain is the last kind of pain. Referred pain is felt at a site far from the diseased organ. The classic thing that we think about when we think about referred pain is gallbladder pain felt in the right shoulder. So when someone has cholecystitis or potentially biliary colic, that pain may radiate to the right shoulder. So you want to make sure you're thinking about that. Now for abdominal pain, this is one of those classic times where you want to go back to your original history-taking class, whatever that might be. And you want to go back to really thinking about the different factors that are affecting the pain. Does the pain radiate anywhere? So this OPQRST phenomenon. So O stands for onset. Was the onset sudden or gradual? Because that can point you in one direction or the other. P stands for provocative factors or palliating factors. Are there certain things that make the pain worse? Does eating make the pain worse? Especially like in gallbladder disease, we think about eating fatty foods making the pain worse. Do certain things make it better? Does it get better when you lay on your side? Does it get better when you eat potentially? There are certain things that actually get better when you eat. So thinking about and asking patients about what makes it better, what makes it worse. Q is the quality of the pain. So is it that dull, achy pain? Is it a crampy pain? Is it a sharp and stabbing pain? So kind of figuring out and having the patient describe their pain to you can be a useful piece of information for you to have that can help you form your differential diagnosis. radiation. Does it radiate to the back? The classic thing that radiates to the back is pancreatitis. So it goes from the epigastric abdominal area into the back. Does it go to the chest? We discussed the fact that myocardial infarction can potentially be on your differential here. S stands for sight. Where is the pain? Our belly, if you've done anatomy, is divided into different quadrants and there's different stuff that lives in each of these different quadrants. Now granted, some patients don't always follow the rules but every so often, but for the most part, knowing the site and knowing where they're describing their pain is helpful. Do they have any other symptoms with the pain? Vomiting, anorexia, diarrhea, fever. Vomiting and appendicitis can be very helpful to know. Did the pain come first or did the vomiting come first? Is there any blood in the stool? All of this stuff can help you figure out what to do. The timing, when did it start? Is it constant or intermittent? Colicky pain like biliary colic or renal colic by definition is intermittent pain. It's pain that becomes more or less severe. Constant pain is pain that just stays there constantly. Again, helpful to know the way the patient is describing and reporting their symptoms. So in the exam, we want to go through a few steps. So step one in the physical exam is the vital signs. Vitals are vital. You probably have heard me say that if you've listened to some of these other lectures. You want to make sure you have a full set of vital signs on your patient. Sometimes it can be easy that one of them may be overlooked a little bit, but definitely having an accurate temperature reading, a blood pressure reading, a pulse oximeter, a heart rate, and a respiratory rate all will benefit you in this situation. And you want to make sure you're paying attention to all of those vital signs. Step two is to inspect. So is the patient laying still or are they restless? Are there any prior surgical scars on their abdomen? Similar to when a patient comes in with respiratory distress, there's a lot of information you can get just by looking at your patient. If they're laying still, that could potentially indicate that they have peritoneal signs, that moving around might make their pain a little bit worse. If the patient is restless, that might support renal colic or a kidney stone diagnosis. Classically, those patients are very restless. Some patients also aren't very good at remembering what procedures they've had on their abdomen. And some patients, you might ask them, I've had this situation for sure, have you ever had any surgeries on your abdomen? And they say no. And then you look at their belly and there's lots of scars there. So in those situations, you want to go ahead and maybe ask them a little bit more probing details if you see surgical scars or look in their medical record to try and figure out what happened. Surgical scars are becoming harder and harder to necessarily notice, especially with more and more people getting laparoscopic surgery. Because those laparoscopic surgical scars are very, very small and are often trying to do them in less noticeable areas. So one classic place is just around the umbilicus. And those can be a little bit harder to pick up on. Step three is to listen. Historically, everyone's taught to listen before you palpate. So we'll go ahead and go with that for now. You want to listen for two minutes and you're listening for bowel sounds. If you don't hear any bowel sounds after a full two minutes, the patient does not have bowel sounds likely. So you want to make sure you're listening for that appropriate time period and you're hearing if the bowel sounds are overactive, underactive, not present at all, or potentially in the normal range. Step four is palpation. You want to start in the area away from the pain. So if the patient's pain is on the right side in the lower abdomen, go ahead and start on the left upper abdomen and then work your way around to that area. You're going to want to palpate lightly and then go ahead and push a little bit more deeply depending on the exam that you're getting for the patient. When you're palpating, you also want to go ahead and assess for rebound tenderness. So rebound tenderness is basically pain that occurs when you let go. So basically, you push down on the abdomen and when you release your hand, I tell people to try and focus. Does it hurt more when I push down or does it hurt more when I let go? Rebound tenderness is potentially supportive of the patient more likely having a surgical process. The other things you can do to assess for rebound tenderness is that you can sometimes shake the bed. This was a tip that I learned actually when I was a medical student from one of my surgery residents. And he would go in the rooms for patients that were being worked up and he would basically take his knee and he would nudge the bed a little bit and see if the patient reacted. Shaking of the bed, reproducing abdominal pain is again something that indicates that the patient may have peritoneal irritation and possibly a surgical process. The other thing that you can do and this is more commonly done in the pediatric population is you can get your patient up out of bed and you can have them jump on one foot. Again, that's something that indicates that if they have pain that's reproduced in that situation, then the patient may have more likely to have appendicitis or a surgical process. This is a classic thing in pediatrics that they get the patient up and have them jump on one foot. And if the kid's willing to or able to do it without pain, a lot of pediatric ED people will say that the likelihood of appendicitis is far less likely. The other thing that I do sometimes ask patients is I have them ask them if when they came to the emergency department in their car if going over bumps bothered them. Again, it's an element of just that little shaking movement or vibrations causing or making that pain worse. Now, there are some additional exam maneuvers that you want to think about doing. So one of them is Murphy's sign and that is taking a closer look at the gallbladder or kind of indicating if there's a disease in the gallbladder for cholecystitis. And what you do in that situation is you feel in the right upper quadrant and when you're palpating deeply in the right upper quadrant, the patient stops inspiring. And that's indicating that that pain is so severe or intense or localized to that area that the patient will stop inspiring. This is something that can be done on a physical exam and also can be done during an ultrasound exam. So when you're doing the ultrasound for the patient, you can see if they have a positive Murphy's. The other thing you can do and this is generally done in the center of the abdomen is you can palpate the aorta. You want to think about a AAA in older patients. So as patients are older is when this disease process generally does start to develop. So for those patients, you want to go ahead and feel in the center of the belly and see if you feel any kind of larger palpable mass. Now in skinny, younger people, you actually may be able to feel their aorta because they're generally skinny and younger and you're able to feel it in the center of their abdomen. Other maneuvers are the psoas, obturator, and Rofsing sign. Those are indicative of appendicitis and we'll talk more about those when we discuss appendicitis further. The other things to focus on are genitourinary exams, the testicular exam and the pelvic exam. The testicular exam is especially important for the patient who you are concerned may not necessarily be able to accurately report to you whether or not they're having testicular pain. The pelvic exam, I always tell women when they come to the ED with abdominal pain that they're really quite tricky because in addition to having your intestines and the normal stuff in your belly, you also have your reproductive organs. So you have the uterus and the ovaries and those are sometimes a source of the pain. So doing a pelvic exam for all women who have a uterus and ovaries is a key thing to do when they present with abdominal pain because you don't want to miss a pelvic infection or some kind of ovarian mass that's presenting in that way. You also want to look for any kind of extra abdominal findings. So that means the herpes zoster rash that was discussed. It means listening to the patient's lungs and seeing if there's any concern for pneumonia. Looking at the respiratory rate and seeing if the respiratory rate is elevated that might make you support diabetic ketoacidosis if you're worried about glaucoma, examining the face and the eyes. So next we want to move on to lab testing and we want to think about what tests to get for these patients. A majority of patients who come to the emergency department for abdominal pain will get blood tests sent. A key and very important test that you want to make sure you send is an HCG test for all women of childbearing age. HCG is the hormone that's secreted in pregnancy and this test can be done very rapidly and easily using a urine pregnancy test. You can also send a serum pregnancy test which will give you a more accurate reading as to what the number is. But generally, urine pregnancy tests are very sensitive for pregnancy. A CBC or a complete blood count is the next test that's generally sent. It's important to note that this is not a specific test. When we send this test, we're looking at the white blood cell count. A white blood cell count is a nonspecific marker of stress on the body. It goes up in times of infection, but it also goes up in lots of other things. It can increase in and of itself in pregnancy. It can increase just with stress, life stress, certain medications can increase the white blood cell count. Also on that CBC, you'll get an idea as to whether or not the patient is anemic, which can also potentially help you. A metabolic panel with liver and pancreatic testing can be helpful as well. So that will give you an idea as to what the kidney function is, what the glucose level is. It'll tell you if the patient is having any liver issues, any indication if the patient is having increase of their pancreatic enzymes. An important thing to note here is that lipase is generally the test that should be sent for pancreatitis. Amylase and lipase are both pancreatic enzymes. But amylase is also secreted in other things. So amylase can come from the bowel wall in general and also salivary glands. So for the most part, to practice the most cost-effective emergency medicine, just go ahead and send a lipase. The lactic acid level is something else that can help. Lactate is elevated due to periods of ischemia. So it can be due to volume depletion. It can be due to there not being enough blood flow to the tissues. It can also be due to infection and possibly sepsis. So sending a lactate can indicate to you whether or not the patient is having elements of decreased blood flow to their tissues. Other testing to get would be an EKG. The EKG can evaluate for myocardial ischemia. So again, I want to stress that that's classically associated with inferior wall MIs. So patients who are having epigastric abdominal pain always think about that inferior wall MI. A urinalysis can also look for blood which would be indicative of possibly a kidney stone. It can also look for white blood cells and nitrites and leukocyte esterase and see if there's any concern for infection. The other thing you can do on your urine test is you can send a urine test especially in the male patient for gonorrhea and chlamydia testing. We'll talk more about that in another lecture as well. After we've sent off our blood tests we definitely want to start thinking about whether or not our patient needs abdominal imaging. We have a few choices when we're thinking about abdominal imaging. The first thing that we can do is possibly a plain film. A plain film is basically used to evaluate for bowel obstruction or possibly perforation of the viscous. Now the advantages here are this can be performed very quickly. So you can have someone come do a portable abdominal x-ray very quickly right at the bedside. So it's good for a sicker patient potentially or for a patient who you don't feel safe leaving the department or someone in whom you want to get testing very rapidly. The disadvantages are that this is a low yield test. This test is not going to give you a ton of information and the truth is is that if it's negative you potentially may need to still move on and get additional testing. So be sure to get it. So if you're worried that someone has perforation of their intestines you actually want to go ahead and you want to get an upright chest film. And the reason for that is that the free air that's in the abdomen will go up and you'll be able to see it more accurately under the diaphragms. Now again I want to stress that this is not the most sensitive or specific test for either bowel obstruction or perforation. So if you are very worried about those conditions you're going to want to move on and get a CAT scan. Ultrasound is another option when looking for pathology in patients who are coming in with abdominal pain. So what is ultrasound good for? Ultrasound is good for looking for an abdominal aortic aneurysm which is what's pictured over here in this picture on the side of the screen. And it can go ahead and take a look and see how big the aorta is. Gallbladder stuff as well as genitourinary conditions like testicular torsion or ovarian torsion. It may also help in renal colics so you can get an ultrasound of the patient's kidneys and see if there's any obstruction. You can look at the appendix that's very operator dependent. So some people when they're performing ultrasound are very good at looking at the appendix and that's actually ultrasound is the most common and imaging modality that's used when working up pediatric patients for appendicitis. It can also be used for bowel obstruction. There's a lot more evidence for using it for this in the European literature than the American literature but that may be something that becomes a lot more common moving forward that ultrasound is used for bowel obstruction. The advantages here are that there's no radiation exposure so you're not exposing your patient to any radiation and that's one of the big disadvantages of CT scan and it can also be performed at the bedside. In the emergency department we're generally pretty proud of our point of care ultrasound skills which basically means that we have ultrasound machines in the emergency department that we're bringing to the bedside where we can actually look for a lot of this stuff on our own. So if you're at a facility that doesn't have ultrasound capabilities available to you one of the ED staff can most likely go ahead and take a look for a lot of these conditions and we can also do it very quickly and on our time. We don't need to wait for anyone to come or be there. We can go ahead and get that test taken care of on our own. Now of course depending on your comfortability with it you may need to go ahead and get additional testing. So the disadvantage here is that it's operator dependent so it's dependent on how comfortable people feel obtaining those images because it does take a little bit of skill and a little bit of practice or rather a lot of skill and a lot of practice to get good at it and to really be able to know what you're looking at and know what you see. I always joke around that I tell students nowadays that when I was a student I thought everything on the ultrasound looked like a snowstorm. It's all like black and white and gray and I had no idea what I was looking at. So for students now generally there's a lot more teaching about this in medical school and it's really a great resource for you to get your hands on and get comfortable with. The last imaging modality is CT scan. CT scan is the thing that's used very commonly when looking for abdominal pain issues. What it's good for is mostly intra-abdominal diagnoses. So this is good for looking for appendicitis. It's good at looking for any kind of bowel obstruction. It's good at looking for any kind of infection or abscess in the abdomen. The advantages here are that it's generally readily available and the image quality is oftentimes great. You're able to see lots of different stuff and you're able to evaluate for lots of different conditions. The disadvantage here is that it's ionizing radiation exposure. So you're exposing someone to radiation and that matters because over the course of a lifetime we know that radiation exposure can add up and potentially put patients at increased risk for malignancy. So we want to make sure that we're being thoughtful about when we're using this and we want to make sure that we're using it in the appropriate patient setting. Now if you're worried about any kind of vascular concerns you want to go ahead and give intravenous contrast and that's going to help light up the blood vessels and make them easier to see. Now like lots of things that we've talked about during the emergency medicine lectures it's important to always maintain a high level of suspicion of some kind of badness going on in elderly patients, immunocompromised patients or diabetic patients. You want to have a high level of suspicion that they have something bad going on in their abdomen. They may not necessarily have clear signs or a clear exam, symptoms or lab values but have a low threshold in these patients for potential imaging or possible surgical consultation. Definitely the one thing you don't want to do in these patient populations is you don't want to necessarily always jump to a more benign diagnosis like reflux. You want to have a high suspicion that something could be going on in their abdomen. Hello, welcome back to lecture number nine congenital heart disease in the series Introduction to Cardiology. I'm Joseph Alpert and I'm going to give you a brief review of congenital heart disease. I'm an adult cardiologist so I only get to see these diseases when the pediatric specialists who really focus on this form of heart disease have either missed the diagnosis in childhood or the patient lived in an environment where they didn't get to see a pediatric cardiologist and consequently arrived at adult life with the disease or we see patients who've had operative correction of congenital heart disease but continue to have some problems because of the disease. I'm not going to do an exhaustive review of this. There are huge textbooks written on this just this one area but I'm going to give you a quick feel for congenital heart disease particularly the ones that we see in adults. Again, very briefly let's review the anatomy. Remember the left ventricle pumps out the aorta out the aortic valve into the aorta. circulation passes around through the tissues of the body comes back through the large veins to the right atrium passes into the right ventricle out the pulmonary artery out into the pulmonary artery back to the left atrium back to the left ventricle. So you can imagine there are all kinds of problems that can occur in this very complex structure. There can be holes in the heart. There can be obstructions to outflow. For example, the valves are misshapen. You can even have the ventricle switched so that the left ventricle is pumping to the pulmonary arteries and the right ventricle is pumping to the aorta. These are all problems that occur in embryonic life that is in the development of the fetus and often they are the result of either infections that occur during pregnancy or drugs that were taken during pregnancy or of course hereditary. Congenital heart disease is the result of an abnormal development of the heart in some fashion. It occurs in embryonic life. It may be the result of an embryonic infection, for example, with a virus or it may be, of course, a hereditary factor. There are a number of different forms of congenital heart disease. Most of these are identified by the pediatric cardiologist and are cared for early in an individual's life. Some individuals are discovered for the first time as adults, but nevertheless, that's usually thought of as somehow a failing for the patient to get the diagnosis made early on and this can be the result of, for example, poor health care early in life. The patients are cared for by pediatric cardiologists often in conjunction with adult cardiologists in special clinics that are geared exactly to the long-term follow-up of these individuals, most of whom have minimal disability following successful correction. There is a group, the group with cyanotic congenital heart disease, however, that continue to have problems. So there are a number of different forms of congenital heart disease. One is the obstructive form. For example, one of the valves is stuck and we're going to talk a little bit about that. We already mentioned that in aortic stenosis that the bicuspid aortic valve can become stuck so that instead of having a three-leaflet aortic valve, you only have a two-leaflet valve. That can become stenotic or stuck in midlife. We'll talk more about that when we talk about valvular heart disease in one of the subsequent lectures. There can be other obstructions. For example, the pulmonic valve can be misshapen. So there's stenosis in the pulmonic valve, putting an extra workload on the right ventricle. So those are obstructive lesions. You can also have holes in the heart. For example, instead of there being a clear wall between the two atria, the right and left atrium, you can have a hole there. For example, that's called an atrial septal defect. Septum is the wall between the two atria. You can have a hole in the wall between the right ventricle and the left ventricle. That's a ventricular septal defect. So there are diseases with holes in the heart that lead to increased blood flow to one of the ventricles. We'll talk more about that in a moment. There are congenital heart disease lesions that occur that actually decrease pulmonary blood flow. Often these are a complication of one of the lesions with a hole in the heart. That is the atrial septal defect or the ventricular septal defect leading to increased blood flow in the heart. But this stimulates increased resistance in the lung and eventually the blood flow reverses. Instead of going from right to left, it goes from left to right. Patients are often cyanotic and blue. That's a severe complication of congenital heart disease, so-called cyanotic congenital heart disease. Sometimes individuals are actually born with cyanotic congenital heart disease. That requires urgent surgery in early childhood. So here you see listed all of the lesions that can occur. You'll notice that they're broken down into acyanotic, that is where the patient is pink, and cyanotic, that is where the patient is blue. You can see on the left-hand side in the acyanotic group, the atrial septal defect, the hole in the atrial septum, ventricular septal defect, hole in the ventricular septum, patent ductus arteriosus. Remember, that's the connection between the pulmonary artery and the aorta that enables blood flow during fetal life to go from the right to the left side because the lungs are not working. And then you can have a special form in which there's a ventricular septal defect and an atrial septal defect known as the AV canal. And then you see the obstructive lesions, coarctation of the aorta, that's a mark narrowing in the aorta, aortic stenosis and pulmonic stenosis. And when we look at the cyanotic lesions, there's something called tetralogy of fallow. That's four different lesions, usually a ventricular septal defect, pulmonic stenosis and some rearrangement in the anatomy of the right ventricle and the aorta. Tricuspid atresia means that the tricuspid valve is missing. That is usually associated with an ASD so that the blood shunts doesn't get into the right ventricle but shunts across the defect into the left ventricle or left atrium and then into the left ventricle. And then there are a variety of rarer forms in the final column, transposition of the great arteries where, as I said before, the aorta comes off of the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery comes off the left ventricle and a number of lesser common things, truncus arteriosus. These are quite rare but they're worth just mentioning as complex congenital heart disease that's almost always corrected in childhood because otherwise they would be fatal in early childhood. All right, so let's start by talking about obstructive lesions. These are lesions that impair the forward blood flow out of one of the ventricles. There are three common ones. Pulmonic or pulmonary stenosis in which the pulmonary valve is abnormally formed and consequently the right ventricle is usually hypertrophied. It has a much bigger workload and often the blood flow into the lungs is reduced. If this is very severe it has to be dealt with in very early childhood often with a balloon catheter that dilates up the pulmonic valve. Later the valve may need to be replaced if it scars down a lot. The same thing can happen to the aortic valve. It can be borne too small and again this leads to marked decrease in the blood flow into the whole body and again often requires a balloon catheter opening of the aortic valve in early life and again often down the road you need to replace that valve as it scars down. Coarctation of the aorta is an obstruction that occurs in the aorta where the aorta is markedly narrowed in one place and again causes decreased blood flow to the lower extremities and to the abdominal organs and consequently one has to open that sometimes with a balloon catheter treatment sometimes with surgery. We're going to talk about these in a little more detail. Let's talk about pulmonary stenosis. As I mentioned before the right ventricle has to hypertrophy has to get bigger and thicker because it's facing a big increase in its afterload in its work. This is can lead of course eventually to right ventricular failure. Often the pressure is quite low in the lung and the blood flow is quite low in the lung and you may even see in early life or later life you may actually see right ventricular failure with edema with swelling of the abdomen and the legs. Again this lesion creates a very nice loud murmur so it's very frequently picked up in childhood and taken care of. If it's mild it's just followed. If it's severe a balloon catheter is put in and expanded and opens the pulmonic valve it makes a murmur like the one with aortic stenosis you have turbulence during systole during the contraction of the right ventricle and you hear whoo whoo whoo whoo over the pulmonic valve. Aortic stenosis similarly is a lesion that affects the left ventricle left ventricle also hypertrophies gets thicker because it has to push harder to get the blood out into the aorta can also be associated with decreased cardiac output decreased blood flow and even needs operation or a balloon opening of the valve in very early postnatal life that is soon after the baby is born if the aortic stenosis is very severe it has to be opened by a balloon catheter or the infant won't survive. Again it produces a systolic murmur each time the ventricle squeezes you hear zhooo zhooo zhooo as the turbulent blood flow passes through the stenotic aortic valve. Coarctation of the aorta is an interesting one because it's often missed. The coarctation occurs just after the arch of the aorta and consequently leads to increased blood pressure just behind it so that there's increased blood pressure in the arteries of the arms and the arteries of the head and there's decreased blood pressure in the legs. So there's and also of course a characteristic murmur so this may be missed by the doctors because we usually take the blood pressure on the arm so the blood pressure might be a little elevated but often you don't take the blood pressure in little kids and they can have fairly normal development. I've even seen patients get into teenage years or even older when suddenly the heart began to have trouble keeping up with this increased workload. Patients may have been a little short of breath they may have been a little fatigued or they may be without symptoms but it was picked up as I'm going to show you in a moment by a characteristic finding on the x-ray. The treatment is either balloon opening of the narrowing or operation in which the stenotic or narrowed segment is removed and a graft is placed in there. This lesion is often associated with a systolic murmur heard best over the spine. Why? Because the aorta runs along the spine after it follows the arch and consequently you may just hear a nondescript little systolic murmur in the front of the heart whereas when you listen in the back of the heart over the chest you may hear a louder murmur. The clue is that you have nice bounding pulses in the arms and almost no pulse in the legs and you say how come I can feel a bounding pulse in the arms I can't feel it in the legs and then often a chest x-ray gives you the answer. This is one of the correctable forms of high blood pressure. Most patients with high blood pressure don't have correctable forms but this is one of them and interestingly enough even after correction there's a tendency for the patient to develop high blood pressure that needs drugs to be taken care of. As I said before it's due to a congenital narrowing in the aorta which sometimes slips past the pediatricians and we see these patients in adult life when they end up with hypertension. Now here is the finding that often is most embarrassing to the cardiologist. Maybe you've seen a patient because they had a little hypertension and you've been asked they're going to have a hernia repair or some minor surgery and you've been asked to clear them. Yes, their heart's okay they'll withstand the operation. And then in the preoperative chest x-ray the radiologist calls up with a great big laugh and says hey did you guys know your patient has coarctation of the aorta? How does the radiologist know that? Because when there's coarctation of the aorta there's a large number of collateral or reserve blood vessels that open up. Some of these are underneath each rib and what they do is cause you can see this little notching this little cavity on the underside of the rib that's a characteristic of the collateral blood vessels it's picked up on the chest x-ray and if you hadn't thought the patient had coarctation it's rather embarrassing that the radiologist gets to make the diagnosis. If you thought coarctation might be there and you ordered the chest x-ray that's okay but there's a significant number of these folks usually without severe coarctation who slip through into adult life if the coarctation is very severe it's almost always picked up in the pediatric period of time. So now we're going to deal with lesions where there's a hole in the heart. These lesions are usually associated with so-called left to right shunting of blood that is blood which is oxygenated from the left side of the heart ends up on the right side. How does that happen? Let's take atrial septal defect that I'm going to speak about in much greater length as an example. So think about this. We're talking about diastole that is the heart is filling. The mitral valve is open. The tricuspid valve is open. Blood is flowing allegedly into each ventricle. Oh but there's a hole in the septum. Well it turns out because the left ventricle is a little thicker than the right ventricle it's a little harder to fill the left ventricle than the right ventricle. So in diastole when all the valves are open some of the red blood from the left atrium shunts across the defect in the atrial septum and into the right ventricle. One of the ways we diagnose it is we find there's too much oxygenated blood in a sample taken from the right ventricle. And often as much as a couple of liters a minute may shunt across the left atrial from the left atrial area into the right atrial area through the defect and lead to marked increase in the amount of blood that the right ventricle has to pump. In a ventricular septal defect the same thing happens. Left ventricular pressure is much higher than right ventricular pressure. When the left ventricle squeezes and the right ventricle squeeze together the pressure is higher in the left ventricle so red blood shunts over into the right ventricle. With a patent ductus arteriosus that's the connection between aorta and pulmonary artery from embryonic life it's supposed to close down but it doesn't close down aortic pressure is higher than pulmonary artery pressure so throughout systole and diastole there's red blood shunting into the pulmonary artery. You can see in each of these conditions extra red blood is arriving in the pulmonary circuit. In ASD and VSD it's arriving in the ventricle the atrium the ventricle and in PDA it's arriving at the level of the aorta or the pulmonary artery. And what this means is there's increased pulmonary blood flow and if this goes on for a period of time you can have increased pulmonary resistance severe pulmonary hypertension and the shunt can actually reverse and go right to left with blue blood ending up in the arterial circulation patients have blue lips they're markedly disabled often because they're not getting normal oxygenation of the red blood in their arterial circulation. So let's talk for a few minutes about atrial septal defect. It's the commonest lesion that slips through pediatric years and into adult life. It usually requires closure. These days closure is sometimes done in the catheterization laboratory with a special kind of catheter that puts a little umbrella on the defect and closes it. Although occasionally if it's large it requires surgery. In many instances it's already been corrected in childhood and there are some few minor problems that can occur later on in life some arrhythmias and so forth. But most of these patients do perfectly well and lead normal life expectancies if the defect has been closed. If the defect isn't closed as I mentioned before the increased pulmonary blood flow can lead to pulmonary hypertension and eventually right ventricular failure cyanosis all kinds of things that markedly disable the patient. The hole is in the atrial septum in an embryonic life often there's a hole there because you want to shunt blood from right oxygenated blood from the placenta from right to left but that hole is supposed to close in very early life after the baby is born. now you can see here from this diagram what happens to the heart. You get an enlarged right ventricle because there's left to right shunting. Remember we talked about that? The reason because the right ventricle is a little more flexible compared to the left ventricle so some of the red blood to the left atrium ends up in the right ventricle and the result is that there's very much higher oxygenation in the right ventricle and the pulmonary artery than normally would be there because normally remember the blood coming back to the right ventricle and to the right atrium is the blood that's had its oxygen removed in the capillary phase and passed in the veins up to the right atrium and right ventricle. One of the findings if the patient goes on to severe pulmonary hypertension in other words the lesion is not fixed one of the lesions that occurs of course that makes the diagnosis very easy is what you see here in this picture this is known as clubbing it's abnormal rounding of the fingernails this is a very advanced example and by the way if you look the fingernails are not the normal color they're not the normal pink color they're a darker color and that's because you have blue blood in the arterial circulation the pulmonary hypertension has become so severe that now instead of the red blood shunting across into the right atrium and down into the right ventricle in fact blue blood is shunting across the septum into the left atrium and the left ventricle and being pumped out in the aorta this is commonly known as Eisenmenger syndrome it's because of severe increase in pulmonary vascular resistance from long standing uncorrected shunting it occurs more commonly with ventricular septal defect when higher pressures are seen in the right ventricle than occur in atrial septal defect nevertheless this is a very dreaded complication of congenital heart disease and just here again so you see here's a little diagram of the heart just to tell you what the findings are in a patient with atrial septal defect why it's so subtle there's often a small systolic murmur from the pulmonic valve but nowhere near as remarkable as with pulmonic stenosis you may actually by putting your hand on the chest feel the right ventricle which you normally wouldn't feel in somebody and the second heart sound is wide and stays wide now remember with respiration we talked about this early on when we talked about the normal cardiac exam the second heart sound splitting moves with respiration it gets wider during inspiration and narrower during expiration let me show you an example it's that's in inspiration and in expiration it's so it gets narrower what happens in atrial septal defect because the right ventricle is overfilled that movement of the splitting of the second heart sound doesn't occur so you hear you never hear that sound narrowing and then there's findings on the electrocardiogram and of course on the echo that confirm your diagnosis but those findings are pretty subtle and particularly in a little child where the heart's going but but but but but but but it's very easy to miss that fixed so-called fixed splitting so here we see a little diagram again of one of the lesions that can increase the pulmonary blood flow for example ASD and you can see it accounts for 7-8% of congenital heart disease which is the largest fraction it's quite common as discovered lesion in adults whereas usually the VSD because it creates a loud systolic murmur is usually picked up in childhood interestingly enough VSD can spontaneously close during childhood because of some hypertrophy of the septum so often pediatricians will follow smaller VSD they don't have to be closed larger VSD of course create a large pulmonary blood flow and do require closure it turns out that ASD is a little more common in males than in females and as you see about 7-10% of congenital heart disease is an atrial septal defect there are several forms of atrial septal defect depending upon where in the septum the hole occurs the common one is called an ostium secundum it's the one that's right over the foramen ovale that's the little opening in atrial life that never closes or doesn't close completely or can be actually a failure of the atrial septum to develop normally it's right in the center of the atrial septum and I'm going to show you a picture of it and here is an operative picture you can see the surgeon's instruments to the left and you can see we're looking at the atrial septum and it's quite clear that you're looking at a hole and what you're seeing on the other side is the left atrium so you can see here a defect this is and here's the operative picture usually a little piece of pericardium that is the lining around the heart is taken or you can use a Dacron or a Teflon patch and the defect is closed so this is a successful closure of an atrial septal defect this actually looks the heart looks reasonably large although this is a magnified picture but I'll bet this was not in a tiny infant this was probably in an adolescent or possibly an adult we're going to spend a little less time on the other lesions but ventricular septal defect is the commonest lesion in childhood but becomes much less common in adult life for a couple of reasons first of all as I mentioned before the ventricular septum often enlarges and closes the defect spontaneously and secondly because the murmur is loud and easily heard in childhood often it's repaired either with a catheter patch that's put in or with surgery and so the ventricular septal defect ends up in adult life to be much less common than it is in childhood number two in childhood is ASD which becomes the most common in adult life because it can be missed because the findings are subtle again you have increased pulmonary! blood flow because during systole the left ventricle is pushing red blood into the right ventricle that goes out in the pulmonary circulation again the most dreaded complication is marked increase in pulmonary! vascular resistance the Eisenmenger syndrome in which the patient is cyanotic they're blue they have decreased cardiac output they are markedly disabled rarely they will survive to late middle life usually complications occur that cause death sometime in the 40s or 50s the patent ductus arteriosus is the third increased pulmonary blood flow lesion again the ductus arteriosus is used in embryonic life it's supposed to close at the time of birth if it fails to close and stays open then again aortic pressure being higher than pulmonary! blood and also increasing pulmonary pressure because aortic pressure is being transmitted to pulmonary artery these individuals more rapidly develop Eisenmenger syndrome that is severe pulmonary vascular disease severe constriction in the pulmonary small vasculature that leads to pulmonary hypertension right ventricular failure blue blood shunting across the PDA into the aorta and again the Eisenmenger syndrome mark disability and early mortality this murmur the murmur associated with a PDA is one of the most interesting ones in cardiology why because aortic pressure is always higher than pulmonary pressure it's higher during systole and it's higher during diastole so that means you have shunt flow both during systole and diastole and turbulent flow in the pulmonary artery so when you listen along the left upper border of the sternum here what do you hear you hear a continuous murmur that's a little louder in systole it's a murmur that's very very distinctive when you hear it you know immediately what you're dealing with you're dealing with a continuous flow both in systole and diastole continuous flow of blood flow red blood from the aorta into the pulmonary artery this is closed by the way with an operation where you don't need the heart lung machine why because you're not getting inside the heart you're just tying off and dividing and separating the two halves of the patent ductus arteriosus it was the first congenital heart lesion corrected by surgery because of course it was corrected before the heart lung machine was available and again as I mentioned the hemodynamics of it are both increased flow and increased pressure in the pulmonary circuit that can lead to severe pulmonary vascular disease but fortunately the characteristic murmur means it's usually picked up in childhood and corrected with a fairly simple cardiac cardiovascular operation that does not require the heart lung machine and again I mentioned the findings you're going to hear a continuous murmur you may the patient may have bounding peripheral pulses because there's a runoff from the aorta into the pulmonary artery in a sense there's a decrease in resistance to in the aorta and consequently this can lead to a very marked brisk pulse there's a widened pulse pressure because of that when you take the blood pressure so there's a number of findings and again it's almost always picked up in childhood because of these findings and it is corrected in childhood treatment of patent ductus arteriosus consists of interrupting the ductus this can be done with a catheter with a little plug over a wire or it can require operative treatment particularly if it's big and it looks like it's going to be more complicated it can be closed with a surgical procedure where one opens the chest and ties it off and interrupts it cutting it after it's been tied off on both sides these days most of these are closed in the catheterization laboratory but a small number are a little more complex and require surgical intervention the final form of congenital heart disease the cyanotic form the ones with the ventricle switched and the aorta or pulmonary artery switched and so forth are very complex they are seen immediately in childhood because the baby is blue the baby is cyanotic they always require urgent surgical intervention and usually what we see in adult life is not a cyanotic patient but what we see is somebody who's already had one or multiple surgical procedures they're very complex we actually don't even know yet what the full natural history of these lesions are going to be because they've only been operated on for 30 or 40 years and so the full life expectancy of what happens after repair of so-called transposition of the great arteries where the pulmonary artery and the aorta are switched on the two ventricles is not fully known and also a number of different operations have been done so we don't know exactly what's the long-term outcome with operation A versus B again these individuals are always followed by pediatric cardiologists usually alongside an adult cardiologist who specializes in congenital heart disease in the adult so these folks often fall into the category of partially repaired or palliated congenital heart disease because you can't completely change around the anatomy which is so abnormal that's different from the ASDs the BSDs pulmonic stenosis and aortic stenosis all of those previous ones the patients can get to near normal life or normal life expectancy and normal activity these lesions the ones with cyanotic forms are much more complicated and often the operations don't completely change the environment the patients live on with significant disability well in conclusion I've given you a very quick look at congenital heart disease as I said in the beginning this is a very complex area that's actually the purview of a group of cardiologists the pediatric cardiologists who again often in conjunction with adult cardiologists continue to follow these patients for their whole life particularly where there are residual defects as I just mentioned in the patient with cyanotic congenital heart disease there's excellent catheter and surgical treatment for these patients they all have very specific findings on physical exam and EKGs and ECHOs I didn't go into this in great detail because it's a whole area of itself but suffice it to say that with careful thought and examination the adult cardiologist can usually identify these lesions based on the patient's history and the physical findings and of course this is followed up with a number of imaging tests ECHO CT or MRI give a beautiful map of the lesion often which the surgeons want ahead of time to look at before they go in and the results of surgical intervention or catheter intervention are very very good for the vast majority of patients with the exception of the individuals with cyanotic congenital heart disease who often continue to have disability and problems but the good news is that most individuals with congenital heart disease actually lead long and productive lives with minimal disability why? because they've had the defect closed often in childhood there's not pulmonary vascular disease they don't turn blue they function very well some even are competitive athletes the residual problems are often in the patient with the complex lesions that lead to cyanosis at birth as we talked about the transpositions where the aorta and pulmonary artery are reversed these individuals have a number of palliative operations and they often have residual disability fortunately they're a very small group the majority of patients with congenital heart disease either have the obstructive lesions pulmonic stenosis and aortic stenosis or the holes in the heart the ASD the VSD usually these do extremely well with our current therapy and often they don't need cardiac surgery often the defects can be closed with catheter devices so it's a very good time for congenital heart disease with the exception of the people who had cyanotic congenital heart disease they often require considerable follow-up and care and as I mentioned before it's usually coordinated care between the pediatric cardiologist and the adult cardiologist so let's start off with tension pneumothorax which is probably the most common and the most serious of the pulmonary life threats how does the tension pneumothorax work well very simply a pneumothorax occurs when air enters the pleural cavity in trauma this is typically happening because of a direct injury to the lung so if you have a stab wound to the chest you penetrate the lung air leaks out of the lung parenchyma into the pleural space in blunt trauma it's often rib fractures that will penetrate the lung causing development of a pneumothorax a tension pneumothorax is a special subtype of pneumothorax which occurs when you have a one-way valve effect in the pleural space so basically what happens in a tension pneumo is during inspiration the patient is able to suck air through the trachea through the lung and out into the pleural space but then during expiration that one-way valve slams shut and the air that entered the pleural space is unable to get back out so what happens is with each and every breath the patient pulls more and more and more and more air into the pleural space which causes a large high-pressure air collection so what are the complications of this well one your patient will almost invariably be hypoxic because the tension pneumothorax will start off compressing the lung on the affected side but as it gets bigger and bigger and bigger it's going to shift the mediastinum over to the contralateral side and cause compression on that side as well so you get significant hypoxia because the lungs are mechanically squished and unable to work properly you also get impaired cardiac filling so direct compression of the mediastinum from the large air collection is going to compress the heart and prevent the heart from filling normally and lastly you get impaired venous return so in normal physiology blood comes back from the periphery into the central circulation because of negative interthoracic pressure you can imagine if you have a large high pressure air collection in the chest that your interthoracic pressure is going to be positive so now you don't have a pressure gradient that propels blood from the periphery back to the heart and this is going to further impair your cardiac filling and your cardiac output so when we're trying to diagnose a tension pneumothorax we want to listen for unilaterally absent breath sounds this is why the first step of our primary survey for breathing is bilateral auscultation of the lungs if breath sounds are absent on one side you should strongly suspect a tension pneumothorax we also want to look for evidence of respiratory distress our patients with pneumothoraces are often working very very hard to breathe because their chest is already hyper expanded with this big air collection so they have to work hard to pull air into that overinflated chest and they'll have clinical distress on exam they're almost invariably going to be tachypneic for the same reason we already talked about why they would become hypoxic and then as you can imagine the trachea is going to be deviated away from the lesion because this big expanding air collection is going to push everything off to the other side so an important thing to remember about tension pneumothorax is it doesn't just affect the lung in addition to respiratory impairment our patients are going to have shock so I already mentioned that you have impaired venous return you have mechanical compression of the heart this is going to prevent normal cardiac output from taking place so these patients are going to be tachycardic they may be hypotensive and tension pneumothorax represents a form of obstructive shock so we want to look not only for evidence of pulmonary compromise but also for evidence of circulatory compromise in our patients with tension pneumo now tension pneumothorax is not usually a radiologic diagnosis usually this is something we diagnose clinically but if you do happen to get an x-ray there are some characteristic findings that you're going to expect to see on this image we have lines outlining the separation of the lung from the pleural space now this patient must have some underlying lung pathology because you can actually see that the lung tissue is tethered to the pleura in one location maybe he has some old scarring in that region from a prior injury hard to know but he's got two regions of air where you don't see any lung markings and those are denoted here and here so you can see the line demarcating the lung tissue from empty air space and you can actually see inside of the air collections that there aren't any lung markings you also see inferior displacement of the diaphragm so on the patient's right hand side I've outlined the normal contour of the diaphragm and on the left hand side you can see it's pushed down much lower and that's because this high pressure air collection is taking up a lot of room in the chest and actually displacing it inferiorly and for the same reason it's displacing the mediastinum which is normally a left sided structure into the middle or right hand side of the chest now you don't want to get this x-ray tension pneumothorax is a clinical diagnosis getting an x-ray of a patient with a suspected tension pneumo is only going to delay your treatment for the patient and it's not necessary so if you have a clear cut tension pneumo on clinical grounds go ahead and treat it don't wait around for radiographic confirmation so what are we going to do to treat a tension pneumothorax very simply the first line treatment is needle decompression and what we're doing when we decompress the lung is allowing air to get out of the pleural space so if I've got a big high pressure air collection here in my chest the goal of decompressing is to make a conduit between the inside of my chest and the outside world that will let that air escape and what's going to happen is that's going to equilibrate the pressure inside of my pleural space with the atmospheric pressure however it's not going to make my pneumothorax go away it's not going to actually restore negative pleural pressure I'm still going to need a chest tube but it's going to decompress the large air collection that is mechanically interfering with my cardiac function and my pulmonary function and it's going to improve the clinical status of the patient very rapidly so I do want to emphasize it's a temporizing measure it's not definitive treatment what you're really doing when you decompress is you're taking a tension pneumothorax and you're converting it into a simple pneumothorax needle decompression is also not indicated for simple pneumothoraces because it doesn't do anything for those patients we only use it for unstable patients with tension pneumothorax and the goal is to restore their normal perfusion and normal oxygenation while we go about providing them with definitive treatment so how do you do the procedure it's actually a very simple and straightforward procedure and it's incredibly rewarding to perform because patients go from being an extremist to being stable and comfortable and happy very very quickly so if you get a chance to do this I think you'll find it to be very satisfying the way it works is you take a 14 or 16 gauge angiocath or basically any large bore angiocath or needle and you're going to insert it at the second intercostal space in the midclavicular line so you're going to palpate both sides of the clavicle you're going to identify the midclavicular line and then the second interspace is typically about one centimeter below that so that's what you're going to aim for you also can use the fourth or fifth interspace in the anterior axillary line if that anatomy is more favorable for your patient either one is acceptable so once you've inserted the needle this is the really important part you need to make sure that the needle is open to room air so you want to insert the needle or angiocath in as far as it goes and then you want to take off your syringe take off your needle lock anything that might be obstructing the end of your catheter and you want to let the pleural space communicate with the air in the room the goal again is to let air go from the pleura out into the atmosphere in addition to needle decompression there are other elements of treatment that you want to perform of course you want to give these patients supplemental oxygen to help decrease their respiratory distress and ensure that they're not hypoxic you want to avoid positive pressure ventilation until such time as you've addressed the tension pneumothorax because as you can imagine when we put a patient on positive pressure ventilation we are actually pushing air down into their lungs and if they have an injury that's led to a tension pneumothorax we're going to be pushing air out through that injury into the pleural space and expanding the pneumothorax which is going to make them worse so if your patient needs to be intubated if they need to be mechanically ventilated you should do that after you've already addressed your pneumothorax you also want to place a chest tube once your patient is stabilized so you're going to insert a large caliber chest tube onto the affected side and that's what's going to restore your negative pleural pressure and allow the lung to heal this is necessary in order to allow the lung to fully re-expand and eventually allow it to seal off the defect that caused the tension pneumothorax in the first place so just a quick compare and contrast between tension and simple pneumothorax because it's really important to be able to differentiate between them since the treatment is so different first and foremost hypoxia patients with tension pneumo often have severe hypoxia whereas patients with simple pneumothorax might be slightly hypoxic but typically it's not extreme tension pneumothorax causes shock because of the physiology we've already described whereas simple pneumothorax should never cause shock simple pneumothorax does not impair cardiac function it does not impair venous return and it should have no hemodynamic consequences breath sounds in tension pneumothorax are almost always going to be completely absent on the affected side whereas in simple pneumothorax you might have normal breath sounds you might have reduced breath sounds if the pneumo is large you may even have absent breath sounds but it's much more typical to be able to hear something whereas in a tension pneumo you can often hear nothing for tension pneumothorax we temporize the patient with needle decompression so we're going to go and stick a needle in the affected side to allow air to escape from the pleural space whereas in simple pneumothorax that procedure is not indicated and really only carries risk with no benefit so we would never do it patients with tension pneumo always need definitive treatment with a chest tube and patients with simple pneumothoraces often do as well it's quite common that we place chest tubes in those patients but for small pneumothoraces sometimes you can treat just with high flow oxygen or in some cases you can use pleural drains pigtail catheters etc. as opposed to a large caliber chest tube so you've got a few more treatment options available to you for simple pneumothorax with tension pneumo you're always going to go for a chest tube alright so the bottom line on tension pneumothorax is you should always suspect it in patients with chest trauma who have unilaterally absent breath sounds hypoxia or severe respiratory distress or shock those are the things that should make you think about tension pneumo and when you're concerned about a tension pneumo you want to make the diagnosis clinically once you've made the diagnosis you're going to perform a needle decompression in order to temporize the patient and then once they're stabilized you're going to place a chest tube which will serve as their definitive management this is a cartoon which you're probably really familiar with as you've gone through your education and just the idea of where the organs are within the abdominal cavity so here we can see we've got the sternum here now we can see the xiphy sternum this inferior limit of the sternum which demarcates the superior aspect of the abdomen and then we can see it radiating down in this direction with those costal cartilages we can see really clearly now tucked up on this right hand side protected by the ribs we've got the liver this large organ the largest gland in the human body and in the midline we can see just about we've got the stomach here which is then continuous with what's called the duodenum and that's the first part of the small intestine but previously I mentioned the appendix down in this lower right inguinal region and here we can see in the lower right inguinal region we can actually find the appendix so these are really important landmarks which we can identify in the abdominal cavity this is in the anterior view over here we've got a posterior view and we can see where the kidneys are located either side of the vertebral column we can also see tucked up over here we have the spleen which you can just about make out on this left hand side so we'll look at the various positions of these organs as we go through the course but this provides a good general overview so now we can relate the surface landmarks that we spoke about previously to a couple of these organs like the liver and the appendix here we can start off with the appendix this blind pouch that's located at the beginning of the large intestine by the cecum and this is really important because as I mentioned before we may have radiating pain coming from this region so a useful technique for locating this pain is to use what's known as McBurney's point and this is a surface landmark for the appendix so again we can remind ourselves of where the umbilicus is we can see it here we can remind ourselves of where the anterior superior iliac spine is and as we can see in the diagram we can draw a line between these two regions a third of the way from the anterior superior iliac spine towards the umbilicus so about a third of the way across we can locate our appendix and that's known as McBurney's point palpation in this region can lead to quite severe acute pain and this can indicate that the patient maybe has appendicitis so that's where these surface landmarks are really important in being able to identify which organs lie deep to the skin we can also see over on this side again mentioned it in the previous slide the position of the liver and here we can see that actually the liver is hard to palpate because most of the liver is actually covered by these ribs and here this diagram may not be 100% correct in that it's quite unusual for the liver to actually be so clearly observed free of the ribs it's usually only in patients to have an enlarged liver that it can actually radiate below the ribs and to palpate the liver you can feel this costal margin and asking the patient to breathe in and out moves the liver and you can actually pressing on the skin deep to these ribs can feel this edge of the liver pressing against your fingers so it's really important that we mention the surface landmarks as you can use them to try and feel and locate organs deep to the skin In this lecture I'm going to discuss the newborn physical exam so before I even start I want to say two things about the newborn exam one is it can be tricky from the standpoint of making sure that the child is adequately warm so sometimes you have to be a little bit quick because if you leave the child unexposed! for a period of time they can start getting cold you'll notice that the skin starts to mottle or look like marble a little bit and that's a sign that infant is getting cold if you can you can do a very careful exam under a warmer the other thing about the newborn exam is it can be frustrating especially with auscultation and the reason is newborn infants! might cry and make it hard to hear what's going on it's okay if you leave an infant and then come back to them later when they're sleeping to get the rest of your exam but let's go through the newborn exam really carefully here so we can understand not only for an exam that might happen but also for your general practice on the pediatric wards so first let's review vital signs and growth exam and it's important we review the vital signs the heart rate should be usually between 90 and 160 in a healthy newborn child the respiratory rate is usually high between 30 or 60 that's fine from the standpoint of blood pressure we often don't have one this is because it's a bit challenging to make we will use it in infants who are ill but if an infant is well the blood pressure is not a critical measurement and remember pulse ox is abnormal in the first day of life and very abnormal in the first 10 minutes so during the first 10 minutes it's normal for infant to go from 60 percent at birth to 90 percent then it can take the rest of the day to go up to 100 percent but expect abnormalities in the pulse ox early in the second day of life that pulse ox should pretty much be normal in fact many centers use that pulse ox as a screen for congenital heart disease okay now you've got the vitals you've got the height the weight and the head circumference and you've plotted them so you have percentiles now we're going to do an exam and we're going to start at the head and work our way down the first thing you're going to do on the head is feel the sutures early in birth sometimes they are slightly overriding and elevated but that should stabilize out relatively quickly also you should feel a fontanelle in the anterior portion of the skull as is pictured here and a very small sort of finger large posterior fontanelle you should feel both of those and you should feel all those sutures! and if you feel any asymmetries or abnormalities those should be noted this could be a partial craniosynostosis for example next we're going to check the eyes and we absolutely are going to do a red reflex the red reflex is useful because when you're looking in you're seeing not only the red reflex but also the possibility of slipped lenses which can happen with a variety of infant diseases also the red reflex may be absent in a patient with retinoblastoma so it's crucial to check those eyes also look at the irises if a coloboma is present this might be charge syndrome now take a look at the ears as you draw a line backward from the eye it should intersect the top third of that ear also you should note any abnormalities of the ear is it posterior! but is the ear may be associated with syndromes or maybe even just associated with renal abnormalities for reasons I don't understand ears and kidneys can sometimes go together in so many different ways next we're going to check the mouth we're going to look for abnormalities of the lips but we're also going to put our finger into the mouth and palpate the top of the mouth if there's abnormalities in a cleft palate you may note them obviously on exam but a palate on the inside may be high arched or may be abnormal as well with a lack of patency on the inside and that should all be noted while we've got our finger in there check the baby suck it should be vigorous that's technically part of the neuro exam but I would absolutely do it also we're going to check the nose in pretty much any infant at some point we may suck out both nares that usually is done in the resuscitating room but we're going to check patency of the nose if a tube goes in but can't get through that patient may have choanal atresia which can cause respiratory distress in an infant next we're going to look at the neck the neck is important in infants because it can have abnormalities that are hard to see unless you really extend the neck and look at it examples are a thyroglossal duct cyst which is midline or a branchial cleft cyst which is lateral so we'll look for abnormalities next palpate the clavicles it's common for clavicular fractures to happen in large babies or with bad shoulder dystocia next listen to the heart and lungs remember that half of normal newborns will have a murmur in the first day of life okay we're moving down to the liver it's normal to feel a liver in a baby in fact if you examine a baby well and you don't feel a liver you probably didn't examine them well enough you should be able to palpate livers in most babies it's even normal to be able to palpate kidneys in babies so you're going to feel that liver and it should be generally no larger than 3 centimeters below the costal margin 3 centimeters is a pretty big distance babies can have big livers the spleen and the kidneys may be palpable and that may be normal next check for the patent rectum don't forget to check during that first newborn exam because a in be a real critical surgical emergency in an infant so take a look and make sure that rectum is present while you're down there inspect the genitalia here's an example of an abnormal genitalia this child has ambiguous genitalia which are probably associated with congenital adrenal hyperplasia this child is a girl with a very large clitoris and a fused labrum majorum okay we're done with the genitalia we're going to move on to the extremities check the stability of the hips do a little bit of an ortolani and barlo to make sure that's okay next inspect the spine and look for sacral dimples or tufts acrocyanosis or blue hands and feet is normal and common but syndactyly such as this patient has or poly dactyly which is even more common with an accessory digit is very common we need to look and count fingers and toes in every patient and make sure they look normal even subtle findings like a palmar crease may be your sign that the patient has for example down syndrome lastly we're going to do our neurologic exam we've already done the suck reflex but we're going to comment on it during the neurologic exam check for their overall tone babies should prefer to be all balled up they don't want to have their extremities relaxed if a child is relaxed and open something is wrong neurologically check the suck check for a rooting reflex where you stroke their chin and they move towards it to suck check their grasp these infants should want to hold your finger holding your finger is a normal reflex in infants it's nice to not tell the mother that this is a reflex let her think her child wants to hold her finger also check the moreau reflex the moreau which should be done carefully is when you suddenly lower the head and the infant's arms will come out and spread they may shake a little bit and then come back in again if infants do that that is normal what we're looking for is asymmetry of the merow reflex if only one arm comes out that could be a sign of nerve damage perhaps from a brachial plexus nerve injury as a result of birth lastly it is good to check the DTRs the deep tending reflexes are easy to appreciate in the knees for example of infants and we can also check the heels for clonus a little bit of! the neurologic exam from head to toe in infants so bronchitis is the first form of lower respiratory trachyne infection we're going to discuss and that's a bacterial or viral infection of the trachea or the bronchi it causes inflammation of the trachea or the bronchi and the consequence of that is that you cough and also you produce phlegm and generally speaking we would say that if the phlegm is clear in colour there's not a bacterial infection but if the phlegm is green gunky and thick then it's likely to be due to a bacterial infection there's a wide range of viruses and bacteria that cause this and they're listed here the important things here are the viruses are very much the same as the ones that cause the common cold it's just the infection has gone further down into the respiratory tract than just a common cold by itself the bacteria are the standard bacterial pathogens that we seem to see repeatedly during lung infections but just infecting the lower airways but not the alveoli in these situations pneumococcus Haemophys influenzae! And then there's the atypical pathogens mycoplasma pneumoniae and chlamydia philia pneumoniae which behave much more like a virus than a normal bacterial pathogen so the symptoms if you have a cough you have phlegm production as I said pyrexia may be a little bit of a tachycardia but there will not be much in the way of lung signs because tracheobronchitis itself because it hasn't reached the alveoli you're not going to hear it when you listen to the lungs and again there's no like upper spritical trache infection most patients don't need any investigations occasionally if you're worried that this might be a pneumonia and that is the main differential diagnosis you might need to do a chest x-ray or a blood test to look for inflammatory markers such as C-reactive protein and the treatment for most people is actually just wait and let them get better if it's a bacterial infection you may want to give antibiotics so in patients who have pyrin phlegm or are severely unwell really quite feeling pretty rotten or older patients where the risk of allowing a bacterial infection to get hold and become a pneumonia is increased then you might want to give antibiotics in those circumstances and you won't need anything too complex and amoxicillin or clarifromycin or doxycycline should be adequate to treat these patients a very important consideration is that the bacterial tracheobronchitis is a very common cause of an exacerbation of chronic lung disease so this type of infection will cause the underlying lung disease to get worse in patients who have for example COPD or asthma or bronchiitis and that means the patient will have increased airways obstruction and that will precipitate hospital admission in a significant proportion of patients with increased breathlessness and potentially respiratory failure and I discussed the infective exacerbations of COPD in another lecture but there is a 9% mortality associated with these infective admissions to hospital so in these circumstances treatment of antibiotics or if it's influenza A infection a neuroaminase inhibitor is probably going to be very beneficial for the patient and of course you need to treat the underlying lung disease so that's the situation where the infective exacerbation of your underlying lung disease has been precipitated by a bacterial infection of the trachea and bronchi we're going to talk about psychosis delusions and hallucinations now otherwise known as the symptoms that fall under the spectrum of disorders that are known as psychotic disorders let's start with psychosis and let's define it psychosis is a break from reality it involves delusions perceptual disturbances and also disorganized thinking what are delusions well these are fixed false beliefs that cannot be altered by rational arguments and cannot be accounted for by the cultural background of the individual there are several delusions we're going to go through them one by one and I'm going to give you some case examples from my own experiences as a psychiatrist so one delusion is paranoid thinking this is an irrational belief that one is being followed tracked or somehow targeted here's an example a patient thinks the FBI is tracking me and they're stalking my house another common type of delusion is an idea of reference this is a belief that some event is uniquely related to an individual so consider the patient who says news casters are directly reporting about me this patient believes when they watch TV that people are actually talking about themselves another delusion is thought broadcasting this is the belief that one's thoughts can be heard audibly by other people so a patient may say I can hear everything you think without you even saying a word another delusion is a delusion of grandeur grandeur this is the belief that one has special powers beyond those of a normal person so consider the person who says I am the smartest person alive I should be president and king of the world that would be a delusion of grandeur delusions of guilt are also common it's the false belief that one is guilty or responsible for something so consider a patient who says I am solely responsible! for healing when in fact we know it has nothing to do with that patient persecutory delusions are also quite common this is the belief that one is being followed or harassed by gangs or other people so patient may say my classmates are all ganging up on me because I have different opinions and therefore they want to hurt me erotomanic delusions are the belief that a famous movie star or someone with a higher stature is in love with that individual patient may say I am convinced that some famous person loves me and somatic delusions are the belief that the body is somehow diseased so consider the case example of a patient saying my scalp itches and therefore I must have incurable head lice when in fact there is no obvious explanation for their scalp itching and the doctor has ruled out that they have lice now let's consider hallucinations another type of a psychotic symptom hallucinations what what exactly are hallucinations these are perceived senses that are not based in reality it's different from an illusion which is a misinterpretation of an existing sensory stimuli so consider this you're driving along in your car on a hot day and you perceive a body of water in front of you that would be an illusion it's not really there but external reality is giving you the impression that it might be there hallucinations are different there are actually a lot of different types of hallucinations so let's start with auditory hallucinations in other words hearing voices auditory hallucinations are most commonly seen in patients with schizophrenia and there are a lot of different types of auditory hallucinations and it's really important that with your patient you not only find out if they're hearing voices but you dig deeper and ask more about them so there could be a command voice that they're hearing this is extremely important because that voice might be telling the patient to hurt themselves or others something that you need to screen for they may be hearing a running commentary this is important because running commentary voices are very distressing to individuals so this means that a person is hearing something basically recounting their every move motion and thought it can be very distressing and upsetting in real time for a patient and then a person may hear one or maybe several voices talking at one time the person who's hearing several voices at once again is going to be more likely to be disturbed! visual hallucinations otherwise known as seeing things can also occur visual hallucinations are often seen in an illness called Lewy body dementia and also in drug intoxication something very important to keep in mind when you're making your differential diagnosis of the patient presenting with a visual hallucination olfactory hallucinations are can you think of a disorder which often presents as an individual telling you that they smell something funny maybe something burning well olfactory hallucinations are often seen in seizure disorder or they're otherwise known as an aura during epilepsy something very important to keep in mind and tactile hallucinations are when an individual feels something and when you have a patient complaining of this you really want to keep in mind that this could be secondary to drug abuse or alcohol withdrawal that summarizes some of the psychotic symptoms that you may be presented with things like delusions and hallucinations it's important to keep in mind the different types of these disorders and always remember to dig a little bit deeper to get more of a story from your patient behind what they're actually experiencing you Thank you.