Let's look at these a little bit more closely. Again, I'm going to say that we've got hemmoilysis. That's blood diialysis. So that means that we are hooking our patient up to a machine. We are actually taking their blood and we are running through that and we are running it through an extraaporeial circuit through a dializer cleaning that blood and essentially returning that cleaned blood back to the patient. We've got peritineal dialysis. So this is actually really cool where we use the paritinium as a dializer. So we can take advantage of that and do dialysis through having fluid instilled into that peritineal cavity and then removing that fluid. And then finally that golden opportunity transplant which is what most of us strive to have each patient have available to them. So under hemoilysis there's a couple of different variants that we have available to our patients. They can do what we call incenter diialysis, meaning that a patient is coming from home to a center where there are nurses and technicians that can do the diialysis for the patient. And this comes in a few different varieties. You can do thrice weekly diialysis where they're going to a center and they're spending maybe four hours at a time, three times a week at that center. Or my very favorite, which is nocturnal dialysis in center. So that means patients come to dialysis at nine o'clock at night. They sleep through their diialysis. They wake up at five o'clock in the morning and they're on for the rest of their day to go to work or go to school or do whatever they want. It's a longer diialysis period of time, but the dialysis is slower and often times patients will feel better. There's also home dialysis or home hemmoiolysis that our patients can do. This includes short daily diialysis. That means that patients are actually dializing six times per week about 2 to three hours at a time. They get to do this within the own comfort of their home. So they could be reading a book, they could be reading the paper, they can be studying. They can do nocturnal home diialysis. So they're sleeping in their own bed and doing diialysis overnight anywhere from 6 to 8 hours. And they can do conventional diialysis where they have more of a conventional machine and they're doing 4-hour diialysis thrice weekly. We also have peritineal diialysis that we talked about. And again, this is really kind of a neat phenomena. If you think about our own body, our peritineal cavity actually can be used as the dializer. So we instill fluid into the abdomen and then we take that fluid out. And people can do this in an ambulatory setting, meaning that they're manually putting that fluid in. So they might put some fluid into their belly, leave that in for four hours, they drain that manually, and they put more fluid in, and they do that throughout the day. That's referred to as continuous ambulatory peritineal dialysis. And they can also have an automated peritineal diialysis. That means that patients might work during the day. They come home at night. They hook up to a machine and the machine actually is what instills the fluid in the peritineal cavity and then releases the fluid instills and releases and do their diialysis overnight. They wake up the next morning ready to go. And then finally we have transplant. Transplant again is that golden opportunity that I think most nefologists will strive to have their patients have available to them.