In this lecture, we'll discuss congenital TE-C cell deficiencies and combined immuno deficiency disorders. Let's review what the TE-C cell is doing. The TE-C cell is responsible for destroying intracellular and other invading organisms like bacteria, viruses, fungi or parasites. The T- cell also facilitates the B cell in producing antibodies. Therefore, patients with TE-C cell disorders may have hummeral deficiency as well. So, let's do some examples. In kids, we may see severe combined immune deficiency or skid. This is what the bubble boy had. We may see patients with atexia toangictasia and we'll talk about that. We'll also talk about Wiscott Aldrich syndrome. And lastly, we'll close with with a discussion of de George syndrome. These are all examples of TE-C cell disorders in children. So typically in children with defunct TE-C cells, they'll present relatively early in childhood between 2 and 6 months of age. And usually they present with severe infections from organisms that don't cause severe disease in those with a normal immune system. An example would be a severe infection with a common virus or a severe infection with yeast such as a candidal oral candidasis that's gone horribly wrong or mcoacterium or pumocyus. Pumoccystus is a common presentation for patients with no tea cells. So how do we diagnose a teac cell disorder? Well, we may see a reduced lymphosy count on CBC or on the CBC smear, we may notice abnormal morphology of the TE-C cells. But if we wish to make the diagnosis definitively, we order a flowcytometry. The flowcytometry will demonstrate deficiency of TE-C cell subopuls or of all TE-C cells depending on the problem. A chest X-ray may also reveal something in that in children with an absent thymus, which we can't see on the X-ray, those children may have a T- cell deficiency. So, let's think about how patients present when they have TE- cell deficiencies. And we'll start with SKID or severe combined immune deficiency. These patients have a severe deficiency of both B cells and T-C cells. They are extremely susceptible to infection infancy and it's very rare that we would fail to make the diagnosis relatively quickly. They often will have failure to thrive. The way we're going to treat these children is by treating them with a bone marrow transplant before the age of 3 months. We need to avoid public exposure prior to transplant. In general with these patients when they have so few TE-C cells we provide them with PJP prophylaxis through trimethopram sulamthoxazole usually starting at about a month of age and these patients may receive IVIG in refu if infusions because IVIG persists for maybe 3 weeks and this will replace their missing imogloabbulin from their B cell dysfunction as a result of their T- cell deficiency. In patients with ataxia tangjectasia they may present slightly differently. These patients have a combined deficiency of tea cells imunoglobulins and they also have neuroutaneous findings from which you can easily make the diagnosis. The defect of atexia to langictasia is in a gene called the atexia tangjectasia mutated protein or ATM. This protein facilitates DNA repair and as a result these patients are at risk for immuno deficiency. Generally they will present with trunkal atexia by the age of 2 years of age. Very quickly they will be wheelchair bound usually by school age. What's key is we can see eye tangas typically by the age of five. This is an example of an eye tangjectasia. It's a very complex bed of capillaries. They then get skin tilageas as well, usually by the age of seven. These patients will have imunogloabbulin deficiency and infections are common, especially cyopulmonary infections. They can also develop leukemia or lymphoma, which occurs in about 10% of patients. Remember, they can't do DNA repair, so they're likely to develop cancer. Let's switch to Wiscott Aldrich syndrome. This is an XL recessive trait. So the boys are much more likely to be affected and an affected girl is usually just a carrier. This is a defect in the function of T-C cells and B cells and also platelets. It's usually diagnosed in the first year of life and 20% can go on to develop lymphoma and 40% have autoimmune disease. Most of these patients sadly die before they are 10 years old. In Wiscott Aldridge syndrome about a 30% of them or a third have the classic triad which is eczema thrombocytoenia and chronic otitis media which is an example of an infection they can get as a result of imino deficiency. But they also get all kinds of other infections because of their imunoglobulin deficiency. Syopulmonary infections for instance pneumonia or sinocitis and they are at risk for viral and other opportunistic infections as well. Lastly, let's touch on deeorge syndrome. Dor syndrome is another disease where patients can get te- cell deficiency but they don't always have it. There's a wide variety of severity of de George syndrome. It's a deletion of 22Q11 and these patients will have midline defects. Affects the brain. They may have effects of the face such as hypertarism or a cleft pallet. It affects their midline glands like their thyroid or their parathyroid. But it can also affect their thymus and the thymus is responsible for making tea cells. So they may have a te-c cell deficiency. Keep in mind they can also have heart findings and multiple congenital heart defects are possible. So patients with the George who have their thymus involved will develop thymus alplasia resulting in a T- cell deficiency. It's highly variable how severe their disease is and we generally provide supportive care. So that's my summary of the congenital reasons why children might have T- cell deficiency. Thanks for your attention.