Okay, let's start with a clinical case. We have a 63-year-old gentleman. He's noted to have microscopic hematia and proteinuria on his recent laboratory data. He has a history of hepatitis C, genotype 1A, and he's planned by his hepatologist for direct acting antiviral therapy. On physical exam, his blood pressure is elevated to 150 over 88. He has trace maybe one plus lower extremity edema. Otherwise, his exam is fairly unremarkable. On laboratory data, his serum creatinine is slightly elevated at 1.3. And his urine analysis is positive for blood on the dipstick. When you look at the urine sediment underneath the microscope, it shows dysmorphic red blood cells. So those funny shaped red blood cells that we were talking about, a few red blood cell casts and that spot urinary albamin to creatinine ratio is high at 1.2 gram, meaning that it estimates about 1.2 2 g in a 24-hour period of time. When the blood studies, cerological studies show a low compliment C3 and C4. So the question is, what is the most likely ideology of this man's renal presentation? Let's take a look through our history and our exam and see if we can come to some clinical clues here. So I think importantly our gentleman has microscopic hematia and proteinura in the setting of hepatitis C. That's important because there are only certain diseases that are going to manifest with certain viral infections. So something like hepatitis C associated MPGN might be coming to mind. His exam definitely manifests with some of the features of nefritic syndrome that we talked about. He has an elevated blood pressure. He's got some edema, proteinuria and hematuria. His laboratory data is also interesting. We see an increase in his creatinine. We also see these dysmorphic red blood cells and red blood cell cast. That's a giveaway that there's something going on. This is what we call an active sediment. So this is hematia of glomemeular origin and he also has subneic range proteinura. The clincher in this case is that he has a low C3 and C4. compliment is being activated through that classical pathway of activation taken together with hepatitis C. This really is mebrative glam nephritis in association with hepatitis C. Let's move to another clinical case. We have a 22-year-old woman who presents to her primary care provider with new onset teacolored urine that developed during an upper respiratory infection. She has no medical problems and only takes oral contraceptive pills. Her physical exam is relatively unremarkable and her creatinine is normal at 0.73 milligrams per deciliter and her urine analysis shows numerous red blood cells at least 50% of them on microscopic review have dysmorphic features. She also has a spot urinary albin to creatinine ratio that estimates about 1.5 grams of protein. She has no serum compliment abnormalities. So she has a normal C3 and C4 compliment in her blood. she otherwise feels relatively well. So what is the most likely ideology of her renal presentation? Let's go through and take a look and see if we can answer that question. So some of the important things to really note is that she notes teacolored urine. When a patient talks about either teacolored urine or cola colored urine, that's very suggestive of gross hematia, meaning that you can see blood in urine with the naked eye. She also mentioned that this occurred That's a term that we call syninferitic hematia and it's almost pathagnnemonic for something like IGA neuropathy. Now let's look at her labs. She's got numerous RBCs and 50% of them have dysmorphic features again along with that proteinuria that sub nefertic range that really makes us think about nefritic syndrome. So very suspect for some kind of glare nephritis. Taken together, her most likely ideology is IgA neuropathy. Let's move on to our next clinical case. A 28-year-old man presents to his primary care provider for new onset cola colored urine. In questioning of him further, he recalls a terrible sore throat a few weeks ago that resolved with some antibiotics he was given at the urgent care center. On physical exam, he's noted to have an elevated blood pressure at 147 over 90, which is new for him. He has lower extremity edema and periorbital edema. His serum creatinine is high at 1.9 milligrams per deciliter. And his urine analysis shows numerous red blood cell red blood cells and he also has white blood cells in there as well. Nearly all of those red blood cells when looking underneath the microscope show dysmorphic features and he actually has two to three red blood cell casts per high power field. On a urinary spot albumin to creatinine ratio, it estimates about two grams per gram of albammen. So estimating about two grams of protein excretion within a 24-hour period of time. He has a low serum complement C3, but he has a normal serum compliment C4. So what is the ideology of this patient's renal presentation? Let's see if we can find some clues in our case. So one of the things that it's important to note, he has cola colored urine. When people describe tea or cola colored urine, remember that really is a symptom or sign of gross hematia. Hematia or blood cells seen with the naked eye. The other thing that's really important is he's describing an infection, an upper respiratory infection, in particular a sore throat, but that happened weeks ago before the onset of the te-colored urine. So that temporal correlation is important. It's not syninferitic like it was with our IgA nephropathy. He had the sore throat first treated with antibiotics and now he's manifesting with a te-colored urine. That's more indict indicative of a postinfectious glomemeular nephritis. The other thing which is important he's got some signs of nefritic syndrome with his elevated blood pressure. Again those dysmorphic RBC's he is volume overloaded or hypertensive. Uh again, he's got that perorbital edema and his laboratory values. So he's got an elevated creatinine. He's got those dysmorphic looking red blood cells. And I think the clincher here is we have a low C3 compliment and a normal C4. That is an alert to us telling us that the alternative pathway of compliment activation is being turned on. And there's only a couple of things that we need to think about with that. We're either thinking about compliment mediated MPGN or something like infection associated GN. And in fact, that's what this gentleman has postinfectious or infection associated GN. Let's move to another clinical case. We have a 35-year-old woman. She presents to the hospital with weight gain, worsening edema over the past month, and recently she really hasn't felt well. She's kind of felt nauseated and anorexic and food's not tasting very well. on review of systems. She notes that she's had some pain in her joints, arthralgas, swelling in her wrists and ankles. She also notes some subjective fevers. On exam, her blood pressure is elevated. It's 152 over 92. And when you do a good muscularkeeletal exam, you find that her joints are boggy. So, she has kind of a boggginess to her wrists and her ankles. She's got also a scaly irrious plaque or rash that's over her face and neck. and she's got 3 plus lower extremity edema. Her laboratory data shows a creatinine of 4.8 that's elevated. Her urine analysis shows numerous red blood cells nearly all of them have dysmorphic features and she also has a spot albamin to creatinine ratio estimating 5 grams of albamin or proteinura and cerologically she has a low serum compliment C3 and C4 as well as CH50. So the question is what is the most likely ideology of this particular woman's renal presentation? Let's take a look at our case and see if we have some clues here. So she's a young woman. That's something that I'm keeping in mind. And she's coming in with weight gain, lower extremity edema and in the setting of nefertic range proteinura. That means greater than 3.5 grams. I'm thinking about a nefertic type syndrome. She also has symptoms of renal failure. She's nauseated. She's anorexic. and we have a creatinine of 4.8 which confirms that her renal function is is severely compromised. Now the other important clues are what's happening from an extra renal standpoint. She's talking about arthralgas. She's talking about swelling in her joints. She's got subjective fevers and on physical exam you also document that she's got these boggy joints maybe perhaps uh eusions in her wrists and her ankles. And then lastly, she's got these skin manifestations with an aithmitous plaque seen over her face and neck. Taken together, all of these are really highly suspect for lupus. And so the question is, or the answer is rather, this patient has lupus nefritis.