I'm a colorectal cancer researcher at the University of Pennsylvania, and it's my passion to educate people about this completely preventable cancer. I hope the information is basic. I'm going to speak for about half an hour, and then I can take any questions you have about yourselves, your family, your friends, whatever. We'll finish around 12:45 to give you a little break so you can use whatever you need, like the restrooms, etc. Okay, so these are photos and information that the State of Pennsylvania's Department of Health gave us, and I'm going to use them. I didn't write them myself, but when there's information that I think is different from what I believe, I'll let you know. Because colorectal cancer— I imagine you know what it is— is cancer that forms in the colon or rectum. This type of cancer is one of the cancers that we can treat, and we can treat it very successfully, as long as it's caught in an early stage. To show you where the colon and rectum are located, here's a diagram of the intestines when you eat food.  It goes down the esophagus to the stomach, where the acid enters and breaks down the food, and then it passes to the small intestine and the large intestine. The small intestine is quite long, and here is the large intestine, where colorectal cancer forms. Colorectal cancer can form here in the rectum or in the large intestine. The large intestine has three parts, and cancer can form in any of those parts. But what science teaches is that most cancers form on the left side of the body. It's not known for sure, but they say that the intestine stores feces. It goes through here and ends here, and perhaps that contact with the contents of the feces, perhaps if there is something toxic, can cause damage to the intestinal wall. So most cancers form on the left side; 60 to 70 percent are found here. It's rarer to find them here, but they can form here too, more on the left than the right. Yes, 60 to 70%. Explain. She did n't understand. She asked the question herself. And what is thought is that when food passes through, it is stored here in... The left one on the left side, and if you've eaten something toxic that damages the intestinal wall, that toxic substance has more contact with the wall. You know, the job of the large intestine is to absorb water. That's its main job because nutrients are absorbed in the small intestine. In the large intestine, water is absorbed so we don't get dehydrated, along with a little bit of electrons, sodium, potassium, etc. So, this is a diagram to help us recognize where colorectal cancer is located. And the statistics from the state of Pennsylvania and nationally show that colorectal cancer is the third most common cancer. You know what the first one is for a woman? Yes, that's right. Number two for a woman is smoking, because women are smoking. That causes lung cancer, and colorectal cancer is number three. For a man, number one is prostate cancer, number two is lung cancer, and number three is colorectal cancer. So, in the state of Pennsylvania in 2005, there were a little over 8,000 cases, and I want to show you that the rate of colorectal cancer in women is almost identical to that of men. In men, sometimes people think it's a cancer that occurs more commonly in men, others think it's more common in women, but it's almost the same; there's no difference between women and men. Here are more statistics: in Berks County, which is a little to the north, there are about 411,000 people registered in the census, and in that 411,000, there were 152 new cases of cancer in one year, in 2005, and there were 24 deaths in that same year. So it is something that is very high risk, and it's something that we are still losing many patients to. And the sad thing is that we can prevent almost all of these cases and almost all of these deaths. And we're going to learn, as we'll explain now, the incidence, which is the third most common cancer, but regarding death, it's the second most common cancer that kills a person. This colorectal cancer is the second most common cause of cancer death. The first, you want to know, is lung cancer. Exactly, exactly, because there isn't a good screening test for lung cancer, and also, when lung cancer is diagnosed, the treatment sometimes does n't help us much because it's at a very advanced stage.  When will cancer be detected, and children who smoke, right? Yes, and it's so important. And as you'll see, smoking also increases the risk of colorectal cancer. It's the second leading cause of death here in Pennsylvania and in the entire country. Now, enough. Yes, and now let's see what the risk factors are for colorectal cancer. The first is age. The strongest risk is age, being over 50 years old. Just turning 50 raises the risk, and the older you are, the greater the risk. So, the risk at 60 is greater than at 50, and so on. Now, which race do you think has the highest risk for colorectal cancer? Do you think it's Latinos? Excellent. You too, quite a lot. Yes, African Americans. They have the highest risk of incidence and death as well. Yes, exactly. So, as I showed you, gender has nothing to do with it. It's found in both men and women with equal incidence. Oh yes, look, let's see about diet. You see, high-fat diets? Yes, yes, also that.  It has been found that there are cultural differences in the type of diet, but even if an analysis is done that controls for the type of food, the risk of incidence and death is always higher in African Americans. Having eaten a certain way, yes, controlling for such an exact study is very difficult, yes, it is possible, and I think that is the area of ​​research where we still have a lot of work to do because we are beginning to understand diet and how it affects us. A family history of polyps also increases the risk. A person who is 50 years old and has none of these risk factors will have a lifetime incidence of colorectal cancer of about 6%, but if they have someone in their family who has polyps, that risk triples from 6 % to 18 or 20%. So, having someone in your family who has had polyps or colorectal cancer makes it very important to talk to the doctor to decide when to have your first colonoscopy. As we discussed, a high-fat diet is also a risk factor, and also if you don't eat the Fiber is a risk factor for a person, and researchers have said that fiber helps food move through the intestines. The more fiber, the more vegetables, fruits, etc., grains, the faster the food leaves the intestines. But if a person eats little fiber and more meat, bread, and rice, it stays in the intestines longer. That's what doctors think, but they 've done studies where they gave patients a high- fiber diet and another diet without fiber, and they have n't found a difference. Perhaps what the lady said is that giving a diet for a few weeks might not affect anything, but a lifetime of dieting might have an effect. Smoking, as we discussed, also has risks like alcohol. Please ask if there has been research and a link found between smoking and colorectal cancer. Good question. A question for the friends who will be watching on camera: has a study been done on constipation and if there is a high risk? Studies have been done, and no link has been found. A sedentary lifestyle is also said to increase the risk; perhaps this is related to... Weight and obesity have been shown to increase the risk, and lastly, there are genetic mutations. There are families with these genetic mutations at a younger age; it's very rare, but these people are at high risk. There are also medical conditions that increase the risk of cancer. In English, we call it inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). After many years of inflammation in the intestine, the intestine becomes riddled with polyps and cancer. There is a relationship between inflammation and cancer. Science shows many similarities between inflammation and cancer, and they think that so many years of inflammation in the intestine leads to This is a medical condition; it's not very common, but it's not rare either. When it's diagnosed, there is treatment for the condition, but doctors also say that you have to get a colonoscopy regularly. So, this is a condition where the doctor should say, "Let's start giving colonoscopies before age 50 because the risk increases with this inflammatory condition." Neither this inflammation nor the cancer has been linked to stress in cancer development. There have been studies showing that sometimes, after a cancer diagnosis, if a person starts taking classes that reduce stress, they have a better prognosis and receive better treatment. Also, women who have had these three things together—breast, ovarian, or uterine cancer—there's a familial condition where colorectal cancer is also found, also called Lynch syndrome. These three things are rare, but common. Lynch syndrome, for those watching, is a condition where several cancers occur, including uterine and breast cancer. It's a genetic condition, and the person is very, very high risk for many cancers, including colorectal cancer. Fortunately, it's a rare condition. Now, what are the symptoms of colorectal cancer? The reality is that there are several symptoms, but cancer in its early stages has no symptoms at all. You don't know; you feel perfectly normal, like, 'I feel very, very well today, but I might have cancer. Is it stage one, stage two, and I don't know? I don't know.' The only way to know is... You should get your colonoscopy or colorectal exam when the tumor is growing. That's when symptoms appear, usually around stage 3, and especially stage 4. Sometimes these symptoms begin at that stage, and they include seeing blood, either when you don't wipe or seeing blood inside your stool. Sometimes the shape of your stool changes because colorectal cancer grows around a channel in the intestine, making it smaller. The stool then becomes thin and pencil-like. Noticing this change is something you should discuss with your doctor immediately. Sometimes people notice changes in bowel movements—or they go to the bathroom more often—and noticing a change from normal is also something that might alarm your doctor. So, you should talk to your doctor about any pain, unexplained weight loss, or if you're not dieting and losing too much weight. You should always talk to your doctor about these very important symptoms, such as diarrhea, constipation, nausea, vomiting, and feeling tired. When you have cancer, most people experience these changes.  In terms of energy, this cancer can also cause, as we saw, bleeding. When a person bleeds, it can lead to anemia, and anemia causes fatigue. These are the symptoms. Now, let's talk about colorectal cancer screenings. As we discussed, these begin at age 50 for both men and women. Even if they feel, as we mentioned, completely perfect and normal, with no symptoms, they do have the highest risk factors. As we discussed here, a family history of polyps, inflammation of the intestine, or a genetic mutation can increase the risk. We start screening before age 50, but most people don't have any of these risk factors. If we start screening at age 50, then, as we just discussed, if there is a history of polyps, colorectal cancer, or inflammation in your family or in you personally, we start screening before age 50, sometimes even at age 40. There are several screenings, and all of them are effective. They all detect colorectal cancer at an earlier stage than if you don't get screened and wait for symptoms. And in cancer treatment, it's lately... The most important thing is to be diagnosed at a very early stage so that the treatment is very successful. There are five tests, possibly now we have a sixth, for colorectal cancer, and all of them have been shown to be effective. The difference is that some patients do n't want something invasive, and sometimes the preparation is very difficult. So, yes, only if it's wheat or whole wheat bread, but if it's white, it doesn't have fiber. If this is unfortunate, they didn't give you fiber bread, but when you have the opportunity, it's better to order wheat or whole wheat bread. Well, there are five kinds of tests. I imagine you've heard of several of these, if not all. First, there's the annual fecal occult blood test, and there's also a very similar one called the fecal immunochemical test. This was the original one, and what we're seeing is that this one might be better. Both tests check for blood in the stool. So, the person uses the toilet. This is a little easier than using the test because you don't have to touch the stool. This one does require taking a sample, putting it on a card three times, sending it to your doctor, and the doctor gives you the results. This one is a little easier.  I see that patients say it's a little more pleasant because they go to the bathroom and it comes with a sample, and you just have to touch the stool with the brush, put the sample on two cards, and send it for testing. This one requires a strict diet without meat because meat contains blood, and no aspirin or ibuprofen. There are many dietary restrictions. Another reason why patients don't like this exam very much is that this one doesn't require any special diet; it's just done. It detects cancer better, and the sensitivity is higher. There's also an exam called flexible sigmoidoscopy. This exam looks very similar to a colonoscopy. The difference is that with this exam, only the left intestine is seen, as we were seeing here. Remember, here the sigmoidoscopy enters, and you can see the intestine on the left and a little bit here, but you don't see anything on the right. So it detects most cancers, but not all. I have a colleague at the university who used to do this exam about 10 years ago, without flexible sigmoidoscopy, and although patients were tested every 5 years, he had a  In one case, a very dear patient of his presented with cancer on the right side. He said, "I'll never order that exam again because, although it detects most cancers in most patients, it doesn't detect them completely." And that's the most important difference between a flexible sigmoidoscopy and a colonoscopy, because a colonoscopy detects cancer on both sides and is much better at detecting it. The difference is that for both, there's not much preparation required—just 12 enemas that morning, and then the doctor goes. He does n't put you to sleep right away. The doctor examines the intestine, and since you didn't receive any sedation, you can go to work, go home, and have a normal day. But with a colonoscopy, there's a lot of preparation. As I imagine you've heard, you have to drink a whole gallon of the fluid from the enema kit. The doctor has to give you sedation, and then when you wake up, you can't drive; you need someone to take you home. You can't go to work; you don't feel completely normal. But this is done every five years, and a colonoscopy every few days. And all these exams are equally recommended. And this exam here, which combines sigmoidoscopy with either a stool test, the chi- and fly, and is done annually, is also a way to find cancer at an early stage. And the last one here, called the double- contrast colonoscopy, is an exam that used to be used, but it's hardly used anymore. I think it's been more than 10 years since I last ordered this. It's still here because there are communities where there isn't a gastroenterologist, either a very rural community outside the city where there isn't an expert who can do a colonoscopy, or if there is a radiologist who can do this exam. So that's why it's still on the list, number 6. It's the newest, but I do n't see it recommended in all the guidelines yet. It's the exam called CATs, which is a colonoscopy. You'll hear more about this, but at this time there are some guidelines that do recommend it and others that say no. It's still too new an exam; we need to investigate more. For now, these five are recommended by everyone, and all insurance companies pay for them. Now, this is the exam we already talked about, the FBI chi- and fly.  I already explained the difference. This one detects cancer better than the FBI test and is a bit more pleasant and easier than making two copies. We're talking about just seeing cancer in the left large intestine ( left colon), and it's done every five years, or it combines tests one and two, and the sigmoidoscopy and annual stool exam are done every five years. But we're talking about the barium enema; it's hardly used anymore. And the colonoscopy, which is done every ten years, as long as the results are normal. But if the colonoscopy shows a polyp, then it's not done every ten years. The doctors say you have to come back in five years. And this is a picture of a polyp. I don't know if you've ever seen what a polyp is. People talk about it, but this is what it looks like. Here's the wall of the intestine, and as you can see, there's a tumor. Most of these tumors are benign; they're not cancerous, but they can become cancerous when there's a polyp like this. It takes about five to ten years to become colorectal cancer. So, 5 to 10, just in case. That's why the colonoscopy is...  Every 10 years, if the gastroenterologist performing the colonoscopy sees a polyp like this, there are two ways to remove it. The polyp has to be removed because it's unknown whether it's completely benign or if it will become cancerous. We remove it and send it to pathology. The pathologist tells us if it's precancerous or not. So, the two ways to remove the polyp are as follows: Number one is with this instrument we're showing here. There's a little loop. The doctor puts the loop around the back of the polyp and then pulls the polyp out. Normally, this polyp stays stuck here, and the doctor pulls it out to send it to pathology. It doesn't fly off. This way, the doctors have some control because we want to know what the pathology report says. The second way isn't shown here, but it's also common. It's called the "lizard mouth." It's an instrument like this, except it has a little mouth with teeth, and what it does is the doctor grabs the polyp, pulls it out, and sends it to...  The pathology, and this is a photo, that's a drawing, but this is an actual photo of a colorectal polyp, and as you can see, this is where the loop is placed and the doctor removes it. A lizard, yes, lizard mouth, yes.  That's right, when the doctor is looking with the camera, if he has an instrument with three little holes, the first one is to provide light because it's very dark, right? Number two is to insert the instruments, and number thirteen is to add water because sometimes, even if the person has taken the liquid to cleanse the bowel, it's not completely clean. So sometimes the doctor has to add a little water. And yes, yes, and air can also be blown through that little hole because when the doctor enters the intestine, it's closed. It has to be opened with air so he can see the intestinal walls completely. Now, if there's a polyp containing cancer that has already formed, whether it's an early or more advanced stage, the treatment for colorectal cancer consists of several approaches, and the most important thing is to know the stage of the tumor. If it's an early stage, surgery is all that's needed. But if it's a stage where the tumor has spread a little further outside the intestine, then the person is offered chemotherapy or radiation. But the most important thing to know is that if the treatment is effective, the person can survive colorectal cancer. Clearly.  Yes, and more and more, colorectal cancer treatment is improving, and we have so many patients who have been cured because science has advanced so much. But the most important thing is not needing so much treatment, and colonoscopies detect precancerous lesions before they become cancerous, thus avoiding the need for treatment like therapy. Here are the statistics showing that colorectal cancer is very survivable. If a person has it in an early stage, 90% of people survive without any problems, but in a more advanced stage, of course, it's a little less; 63% or less survive. To get more information, here's how to get information about colorectal cancer, whether from the state or the National Cancer Institute. You can also speak with people who speak Spanish. These are the addresses of all the institutes where you can get education not only about colorectal cancer but also about other cancers, including ovarian, prostate, and skin cancer. There's also an organization, the Pennsylvania Cancer Education Network, where people can get more information on how to prevent cancer. And that's all. Now I'm ready for any questions you may have. Thank you very much for your attention. Enjoy your meal. If you have any questions, please come back again. Yes, the question is whether a person who has had colorectal cancer is cured with surgery or any other therapy. If so, are they at risk for life from that cancer and are they at risk of recurrence? The answer is yes. When a person has had their first cancer, it's known that there's something that predisposes them to having more. So, when a person has completed a full course of treatment for colorectal cancer and has survived, we send them for a colonoscopy starting one year after treatment. If no tumor is seen in one year, to ensure that nothing was left after the surgery, I'll come back. If it's negative, sometimes we tell them to come back in another year, and then again in three years, and if everything is still negative, to come back in five years. But we never say to come back in 10 years because 10 years is a very long time for someone who has had cancer. So, we take care of them and observe these patients very carefully. And among other questions, first, fever, something else, another question  That's great, yes, or quite a few. Look, there it is. It's such a good question you ask because lung cancer is on the rise in women because more and more women are taking up smoking. But the study you're talking about has already been done; several have been done showing that even if a person doesn't smoke, if they live with someone who smokes—whether a mother, father, husband, or brother—that smoke they inhale is causing lung toxicity, and the risk is higher compared to a person who doesn't smoke but lives with people who smoke. Another thing: even if a person goes outside to smoke, like sometimes when they don't allow smoking at work, I sometimes have colleagues who aren't doctors, but the staff sometimes go out to smoke. They come in, and I smell the smoke, right? You feel it a lot, and even if it only lands on your clothes, that increases the risk of cancer. Not only that, but there's secondhand smoke when you smoke and secondhand smoke where you don't smoke, but the person next to you smells that smoke, and that causes risk. And now it's been discovered that there are three agents involved, especially just smelling the smoke on your clothes. Carcinogens are in clothing, so it's very important to know that because it's very difficult to do anything. What are you going to tell a person to go and change their clothes, hang up their coat, or something? It's very difficult to force someone. But so you know, if you're sitting in a public place and you smell something in your clothes, it's best to move. Exactly. And also, if you're constipated, yes, yes, if you're unconscious, unconscious, yes, you're... oh, other innocent ones, yes, that's right. Yes, yes, yes, yes, I'm regular. Nowadays, every four... yes, what it says... well, water makes the stool softer and easier to pass. But if you eat fiber and drink water, it makes the stool thicker, and that sends signals to the brain that you have to move your bowels. So, a person who eats a lot of fiber and drinks water goes to the bathroom more frequently. And they tell you that maybe that helps reduce the risk, but as I said, they've never proven it. It's a hypothesis, but they've never proven that not going to the bathroom, constipation, causes cancer.  Colorectal and duration is difficult and if it's true, yes, yes, before it's true, it depends on what it is. There are laxatives. The question is whether the laxative is harmful, if it is, because people can lax with water, right? I remember people used to give themselves a water enema to help make the stool softer. That doesn't cause harm, but the laxatives they use stimulate the large intestine to go to the bathroom. If you take laxatives, too much laxative, it turns the wall of the large intestine black, and when doctors do a colonoscopy, they say, "This person is abusing the laxative because the wall is completely black," and it's not a good idea because the intestine is stressed by the laxative if you take too much. But water doesn't. Yes, sign, yes, 1, yes, for the whole body. Well, thank you very much for your questions, very good, excellent, and thank you very much for your attention, and I hope you like them. It's a pleasure, a pleasure. Thank you. I think my neighborhood is there, yes, yes, there they are. They asked me for them. Yes, thank you very much. So, yes.