(phone ringing) - Hi! Alright, the pregnancy test is positive! (crying) - Something I never thought would happen happened. - We showed the world that people with breast cancer, we're strong, we're beautiful. (applause) - We're now the official health system of the Philadelphia Flyers. - SEPTA and Penn Medicine teamed up today in Center City. - The University City Station has been renamed Penn Medicine Station. - Coronavirus officially hitting the US. - Cases here in the US have exploded. - All-time highs today in many locations. - Philadelphia hit a one-day record high. - Up more than 70%. - Closings, cancellations, and social distancing bringing American life to a standstill. - Why do we keep on going on the toughest days? Because we want to keep our patients safe. We want to keep our families safe. the community safe. And we're here to make a difference. - It's not just about the doctors and nurses caring for the patients, it's about being a family. - We are here to serve the community and make sure that they are well-supported during these hard times. - The University of Pennsylvania just established a new center for research on coronavirus. - It's very early on but multiple clinical trials are underway. - I'm working night and day, working really hard. - Penn Medicine was here before COVID-19. We were here before the Revolutionary War, before smallpox, before measles, and we are open for business. - For every COVID patient we discharge they put out a flower. Look at all our flowers. Isn't this awesome? - My dad was on the ventilator for 168 days. Penn was exactly the hope that we needed to keep fighting. - The big boss is back! He's coming back. (applause) - We'll miss you! - All the great doctors, all the nurses, unsung staff members, you are angels on Earth. - God bless you and everybody at the hospital, all you workers. - You're fighting for us, you're loving for us. - You are the true heroes. - You have our gratitude and our prayers. - Say his name! - George Floyd! (honking) - We kneel in the hope that moments like this turn into movements. (bell ringing) - It's beautiful!  Thank you, thank you. - This building allows us to do things we've only dreamed about. - It is a wonderful place to practice to feel energy but yet calm. This is a beacon of hope for all the patients that need the latest, most advanced care that's possible. - An unprecedented donation from the University of Pennsylvania of $100 million, the largest private donation ever made to the Philadelphia Public School District. - One Extra Bag is a program where medical student volunteers deliver groceries to geriatric home-bound patients. - Thank you so much! - Kati Kariko and I developed the nucleoside-modified mRNA that's being used in the COVID-19 vaccines. So Philadelphia is the home of the vaccine. - Doctors and nurses rolled up their sleeves. - Vaccinations started at Penn Medicine Lancaster General Health last evening. (applause) - You will not believe how happy I am!  Yay! - Yessss! - This is a historical moment and we're ending a pandemic. - This is the light at the end of the tunnel.