I'm Carl June. I spent 21 years in the Navy. I entered during the Vietnam War and spent about 15 years as a research physician working on cell therapies. I learned so much during my time in the Navy. The most valuable thing was that of teamwork. And this is such a a privilege to be able to ride with my former classmates at the Naval Academy. Today is day six of our Gulf to goat bike tour. We started in the Gulf of Mexico, Appalachia, Florida, and then we're going up to Annapolis, Maryland. The mascot for the United States Naval Academy is a goat. And there's a statue there. And that's where the ride will end after about 1,200 miles. So this is our uh 50th reunion from the graduation in 1975. We first met all when we were 18 years old. Entered the academy. All living in the same dormatory. We're not young bucks anymore. You know, I've never gone on a multi-day ride like this. We're taking it a day at a time. I'll tell you that. It's been a real adventure so far. The idea is that both to get together but also it's a charity ride. I'm writing for the Emily Whitehead Foundation and that sponsors research in leukemia and training of new scientists. So Emily Whitehead developed leukemia when she was 5 years old but ended up being the first patient on our trial with CARTT cells which were programmed to kill leukemia cells. and she's now more than a decade after that and has had no leukemia come back and and she's cured. You know, leukemia used to be the number one cancer cause of death in children and now because of cartis cells, it no longer is, but there are still cancers in children. So, we need to call attention to research to finish the job. >> Guys, be safe. >> Blessings on you. >> I just want to thank the support that we've had. um hoping we can give back into the Emily Whitehead Foundation and bring attention to the veterans, many who need care in our hospital systems. The public really, unless they've been in the service, may not understand some of the sacrifices that our military have gone through. My message to the vets, we are so grateful for your service and what you have done for our country. So, thank you again on this wonderful day.