I came to Penn about three and a half years ago. I had spent the previous 20 years investigating the ways in which quality of care contributes to racial and ethnic disparities in both maternal and infant health. Looking at the things that we could actually change, modifiable factors that might actually impact maternal mortality and morbidity. I started my career with a real strong interest with infant mortality and then had my first child myself and realized that all the information and everything I had been sharing with my patients like where did it all come from like how come nobody told me this like all these things and I realized that there was such a disservice that everything had been focused on the infant and very little about the mother and there is nothing more to me fundamental to a family than the mother. It comes back to my mom. I grew up in Guyana in South America and I used to get a lot of headaches. My mom took me to different doctors and I said at some point that oh I think I I want to be a doctor so that I can help people and and prevent this happening and and she ran with it. Even back then, she remembers me saying, "I don't know why the outcomes are always so much worse for people who look like me, for black people, for people of African descent." Fast forward to medical school. I did my OB/GYN rotation and fell in love. Came to Penn to help a broader array of people within the city in Philadelphia. The rates of maternal mortality for black women are higher, even more so than the national statistics. This is a galvanizing issue for my department. 60% of our deliveries are here at HUP are to black women and we need to acknowledge that we have to be, you know, part of the solution to this crisis. So, we have this model in the department, six levers to advance maternal health equity. As a person who's done a lot of research, actually implementing solutions across the system is incredibly exciting. Come in. Hi, Carlies. How are you? Hi. I just want to make sure we can go over a couple things for the discharge. Okay. Before I do that, are there any supplies that you need for Jaylen? Diapers, formula. As of right now, no. You're good? Yeah, we're good right now. All right. Great. Um, one of the things, so we met when we was in high school. Yeah. But we both turned each other down. Turned each other down. Yeah. And in 2020, we reconnected and we just started to we just kind of like took it from there. Like that was really it. It's our first child, so a lot of stuff we just don't know. Don't know what to expect. Yeah. So, we're the same. We were figuring out him, we're figuring out each other, building our family. I think we're really well grounded in our beliefs. We both are very adamant about raising our son in a two parent household. That's like our big our number one goal. Yeah. Now, make sure that you are easing into um normal daily activities. Okay. When you go home, no heavy lifting. Your weight um requirement of lifting is your lovely son over there, Jaylen. Okay. One of the things I want to talk about is one of these flyers you have in your folder, okay? To let you know when things get a little serious, what you should do. This is when you want to call your provider. All right? If you're having redness or swelling in your legs and headaches. Headaches are really important because that can pertain to risk for preeclampsia. I had so many different questions and being an African-American woman and hearing just the different stories with healthcare, I came into it scared. I just didn't know how I was going to be treated in such a vulnerable state of contractions, pain, the distrust um that that is key. The distrust is based on years and years of racism. Um it's it's the stories that have been told to people, their experiences when they come into the hospital, they're being ignored. So in my role, we do a ton of education with our providers, not only implicit bias trainings, but also thinking about the other ways you can make your faculty trainee and nursing staff safe to to report and talk about instances of discrimination and racism and what are we going to do to try to address those. We as leadership teams in the abstetric units have decided to put 10 minutes of every single meeting that we have to talking about equitable healthcare. In obstetrics, you hear people talk about FOB is father of baby. one of our attending physicians um announced a couple of years ago, we're noticing that people are using FOB more often with black families and they didn't actually clarify the relationship with someone, but also maybe the relationship doesn't really matter when someone's in labor. People like being called their name. When you make assumptions, I think you can offend people really quickly and any type of alliance you've already made can be lost. A lot of it is really just about listening and checking in and asking what's the patient preference. It's really all about what they want. The nurses answered every single question. They wiped every tear that dropped from my face. They rubbed my leg, hugged me. It was the comfort. It just made it a great experience. The day that someone gives birth is such a pivotal moment. Whether it's good or it's bad, they're going to remember that for the rest of their lives. And being able to influence that in that moment makes this really meaningful to me. There's nothing like a good delivery. That's the goal for everybody. Healthy baby, healthy mom. I recently was in the hospital for something and I I was like, "Oh my gosh, you know, who cares what my physician was? I just needed a great nurse and I was all set." Right? So, I I actually I mean, that goes to show you their role both at the bedside and their ability to communicate and have advocate for the patient much stronger than than physicians. You can't really make improvements if you don't have partnerships and teamwork across the healthcare delivery team. All right, I'm just going to take a peek. Okay, she's just playing games, doing some gymnastics, not staying on as always. Hopefully, we won't have to keep you on too long. Okay, fingers crossed. I am having a baby girl. There's a slight chance of her coming early because of my sickle cell, but I'm hoping she holds on. So far, so good. It's been a complicated pregnancy pain-wise, but it's great blessing because I've always wanted kids, but I always also felt like because of my health, I would end up just taking care of everybody else's kids. Sickle cells are like a blood disorder. My body doesn't get as much oxygen. They have so much more pain than an average person because their blood is sickling and it's not allowing proper blood flow to the rest of their body. And it gets worse especially when you're pregnant because now you're making more blood for your baby. So I've started to slowly like end up having to come in a lot more because my pain be really severe. Okay. Where would you like feel to back of the arm? Yeah. Quick pinch. All right. Quick. sickle sauce predominantly in African-Americans and you'll have some issues with judgment on that and if people don't really understand it sometimes you're looked at as a drug addict but I'm always feel comfortable being able to talk to the nurses they always ask how I want to proceed they'll give their input but they'll always make sure like they follow what I want to do and what makes me comfortable I've get discouraged with being in the hospital so much and feel like I'm hurting her. Just want her to be healthy. More than anything, just want her to be healthy. We had a patient and she was constantly coming back to get relief. And I wanted to find something else other than that. Was there anything out there that we could include on top of what they're already receiving to help decrease their amount of times in the hospital? I researched and I found a lot of proof about doing a blood exchange in pregnancy. that was safe safe for mom and baby. This blood exchange basically replaced that sickling blood and um it decreased their amount of times coming back to the hospital. That one patient just changed my whole viewpoint. I'm not battling with your um your disease, but I hear you. You know, that's I feel like that's the best way that we can help them. We have a program called hearts safe motherhood. It was developed by two colleagues Dr. Ad Hersburg and Cindu Shrina. Hearts safe is a program that helps uh decrease the risk of preeacclampsia in a postpartum setting. We have all these women who have high blood pressure during pregnancy. We know they're at risk not only during pregnancy but postpartum. So, our professional society recommended that we had blood pressure monitoring in those first 10 days postpartum. The problem was you have a newborn baby who could actually make it in. So, the rate was low for everybody, but what they saw was black women were less likely to be able to come in. Um, so there was a huge disparity there. So, we give a blood pressure cuff to the patient and we explain how to take their blood pressures at home and then they have a two-way texting stream so that they text their blood pressures twice a day for 10 days and if there is any abnormal values that gets escalated to an uh the physician. What they found was that that disparity of having a blood pressure recorded at that two week mark disappeared. That was huge. We spread it across the system to the delivery hospitals. Then the city of Philadelphia department of health and now other hospitals around the country have come to try to get the program to implement it there. Certainly, when we think about health inequities and we think about the elevated rates for black women, we've heard story after story after story of people not feeling heard, not being listened to. We hear about not listening a lot. Like, you really truly have to listen. And so, what we've moved towards now is the community piece. Not only being out in the community, but bringing the community in and listening to them. It's a hard bridge if you are just going in from your ivory tower to the community and saying, "Hey, tell me what to do. Tell me what what it is." Right? But if you build relationships, it gets easier. There you've got to build the trust. I mean, trust is sort of key to everything. It's a door that has to be cracked open. My goal for the long run is to feel like we've really made a dent. And this one's a harder one. But if we could build trust so that the West Philadelphia community could know that we really care and we're trying to tackle this problem and do better. The old way of thinking about things that the people in the ivory tower knew everything just just doesn't work. We know that that model doesn't work. So we need to come up with new models. And I think part of the new model is really embedding uh uh community and patients voice into what we're doing. and we're going to look to them to keep guiding us with with what we what we should do next. That's really um I think the way way it should be