- I'm going to go ahead and show you some advanced strengthening exercises. These can be done anywhere from 8 weeks to beyond 12 weeks. Talk to your physician and/or therapist about when to start these. The first one is forward flexion. So, the band anchor is behind Bryson. He starts with this arm at the side. You can place the band to the inside because many times, when you do this exercise, if it's on the outside of your arm, it catches the hair on the outside of the arm. So, you're going to go ahead and reach forward. He's reaching to about shoulder level. So, the hand will go to about shoulder level, bring it back. Like we've discussed with the other exercises for bands, 2 to 3 seconds doing the motion. Go ahead again. Hold it out there for a second, If it really was painful to get it that high, then move in a relatively pain-free range. So, if that's as far as you can get, then go to there. Over time, you'll build up to the point where you can get it through the full arc of motion. Two sets of 10, 3 sets of 10, progressing to 3 sets of 15. The next exercise I'm going to show you is an advanced exercise, and we're going to follow the same principles as we've followed with the ones in the past. So, I'm going to ask Bryson to put his arm in the 12 o'clock position, and he's going to step away and take up that slack in the band. All right, so you move the body until the slack in the band is just taken up. I'm going to have him set his shoulder blades, pinch the shoulder blades together. Now he's going to lift his arm out to the side. The hand and elbow are moving together. So, you don't want to do that. That will bother your shoulder if the elbow leads the hand. If anything, you can allow a little bit of the hand to lead the elbow, but for the most part, they should be moving together. You'll be instructed to raise the arm about 45 degrees, halfway up to shoulder level. So, you'll start to that position, bring it back down. So, take a couple seconds to reach that position, you hold it for a second, Your shoulder blade is pinched. Every so often, you may have to reset your shoulder blade to make sure it's actually in that kind of retracted position. Do these 2 sets of 10, 3 sets of 10, Your therapist may progress the range of which you move through. You might start moving up to 70 degrees over time. Again, that would be based on that therapist's discretion. The next advanced exercise is external rotation with the arm in some degree of elevation. So, Bryson is going to sit next to the table, standard kitchen/dining room table. His arm is not going to be straight off to the side. It's a little bit forward. His elbow is bent at a right angle. He's got to hold the band in his other hand which is down on his knee, and he has set the tension where the slack in the band is just taken up. So, from this position, he's going to set his shoulder blades, kind of pinch that shoulder blade back. He's going to rotate the arm or the hand outward to the point where it's in line with his arm, and as Bryson looks to the side and as you look to the side of your own arm, you'll see where your hand lines up with your arm. Bring it back and forth. We follow the same principles. It takes about 2 to 3 seconds to do the motion. You hold for a second, and then you return it to the start position. You'll do that 10 repetitions, 2 sets of 10, progress to 3 sets of 10, progress to 3 sets of 15, and that'll be based upon, do you have pain during and/or afterwards.