Welcome to the podcast series from the specialists at pen medicine. I'm Melanie Cole and we're here to highlight a famicel in the treatment of senovial cancers. Joining me is Dr. Daniel Leler. He's a clinical assistant professor of medicine and the associate clinical director of saroma medical oncology at the University of Pennsylvania. Dr. Leler, it's such a pleasure to have you join us today. Can you first give us a brief outline of the genetic landscape of senovial cancers themselves? What makes them amendable to amunotherapy? Thank you for having me, Melody. Cinovial saroma is an interesting disease. It's a rare disease. So, kind of just to set the stage, sarcomomas are only about 1% of all adult tumors and cyovial sarcomomas are about 5 to 10% of all soft tissue sarcomomas. So we're talking about a rare version of a rare subset of tumors, but they may be rare, but they're also serious. And so sarcomomas can happen anywhere in the body. They occur mostly in people in their 20s and 30s. And they're aggressive. They grow fast and and they can spread fast. So it's a life-threatening diagnosis, life-changing diagnosis, and our therapies are definitely less effective than we would want for our patients. And treatment usually involves high doses of chemotherapy, which can be hard for people to tolerate. and we do our best to support them of course. So it's always good to talk about new options for treatments like this. Senova sarcomomas to answer your question are not usually thought to be susceptible to the standard imunotherapies. These are monoconal antibodies that usually act on immune checkpoints allowing the natural immune system to attack cancer more effectively. But in this case, there is a new therapy that uses a different mechanism of action to allow our immune system to attack the sinovial saroma. And so even though it's not susceptible to most amunotherapies that we usually think about, it can be made susceptible to amunotherapies in a different novel way. This is such an interesting topic, Dr. Leler. So what is a famicell's mechanism of action? How is it like or unlike that of CARTT therapy? tell us a little bit about this. So a famicel the other name is telra it's a te- cell therapy so that's like carti cells but this one uses a different way of allowing the te- cells to attack cancer so this uses an engineered te- cell receptor or a tcr and this is the first of its kind that has made it to humans and made it to getting treated patients commercially and it won't be the last one of those for the record even in sinovial saroma I don't think so in essence this takes the normal tea cells from a patient and switches out the T- cell receptor or TCR that allows those cells to recognize a specific protein expressed in the cancer cells. That protein is called MJ4. So, usually our tea cells would not recognize this expressed on cells and it wouldn't necessarily kill the cancer cells, but this engineering allows the TE- cells to notice the cancer cells and kill them effectively. CARTT cell therapy famously saw development here at Penn, but the way they are manufactured, instead of giving the new T- cell receptor, CARTT cells are given a different novel receptor called a chimeriic antigen receptor or CAR. And although this is a bit of a nuance difference, both have their pros and cons. Traditionally, CARTT cells can be given to anyone whose tumor cells express a certain marker, which makes them widely applicable to a wide swath of patients with certain diseases, but it also means that they can have offcancer effects and kill normal cells too with that marker. Obviously that technology is still being developed, refined and improved. TCRT cells have the benefit of using normal T- cell receptor that our immune system uses and therefore it's more targeted and a natural way of our immune system killing cells with the downside being that it's only going to then be available to a certain population of patients whose te- cells look a certain way and have a certain marker on them. Dr. Leler, the published indications for a famicel suggests that it's administered only after radiation, chemo, and surgery have failed in people with unresectable or metastic senovial saroma. Why can a famicil not be used earlier in the course of treatment? And why might a synovial cancer be refractory to a standard care? The short answer is that we don't know exactly if it could be given earlier or in a different setting to these patients because of the way the trial was designed. And basically cancers have all sorts of ways to evade the treatments that we give them because they're smart. They figure out ways to either like pump out the chemotherapy out of the cells so that it doesn't kill the tumor or they gain mutations that make them resistant to treatment. And as for using the aphamic cell only after chemo, all I can say is that this is based on the trial design. So in the clinical trial that established this as an effective way to treat patients, it was only given to people who have had chemo prior and it seemed to work well in that setting. So that's why the FDA approved it that way. Maybe it works better earlier, but we just don't know. But one thing that's worth mentioning is that Famicel seems to work best in patients who had fewer and smaller tumors. So what we say is like less tumor burden. And this is consistent with the data from cartis cell trials and clinical experience. And so it does seem beneficial to reduce the burden of tumors or shrink them as much as possible with our standard treatments prior to giving a famic cell because it looks especially effective in that setting. That's so interesting. So in the spearhead one clinical study that was the basis of the FDA approval that we're just talking about 39% of treated patients had a duration of response longer than a year. Put this into perspective for us in regards to senovial cancers. Do we know why the majority of patients didn't have a more durable response? And what might be changed in the target administration of the treatment to improve the overall response? Well, the durability of response is actually one of the really great things about this in terms of the number of patients who had responses. Less than half seems like it would be bad in terms of patients responding for a treatment. And we certainly want to keep advancing our science and our treatments to make sure that all patients benefit eventually. But in this case in cyovia saroma patients who have already received treatment so already received one line of chemotherapy our treatments or second line third line and beyond treatments usually respond less than 15% of the time many quote 5 to 10% of the time and by work I mean shrink tumors so around 40% or nearing 40% of patients responding is amazing it's remarkable compared to that benchmark but perhaps even more impressively as you are alluding it's the duration of response and the patients who did respond at all. And so the response to this one-time treatment can last for on average a year, but many patients longer than that. And so that means that's time that patients don't need more chemo. They're not getting chemo and chemo and chemo every 3 weeks, every four weeks, or a pill that's making them feel sick. And so that is a big quality of life consideration in terms of time off of treatment for these patients. And overall, patients had a 30% chance of not needing any further treatment after two years, which is kind of amazing and rather unheard of in this world. As for why some patients didn't respond, it's not clear and obviously the scientists, the clinical investigators who ran the trial will be looking into markers of how we can predict who will respond and who won't. They can be for a lot of reasons particular to patients and for individual tumors. There was some recent data presented at an international saroma conference. A similar TCR T- cell product with a different target called NYESO1 had promising results in senovial saroma as well. So maybe we'll learn how to choose patients for the MJ4 aamic cell versus the NYE1 targeting other T- cell receptor therapy and obviously we'll see that as our field moves forward. Dr. Leler, a famicile is expensive and according to the medical letter on drug therapy, a single dose could cost $727,000. What's the basis for this cost? How has the insurance industry responded to this? In terms of the cost, the financial calculations work happens in the background by people who aren't necessarily doctors. It's expensive to develop any drug and I can imagine it's much much more expensive to develop a special product that uses each individual patient's own cells. It requires collection from a patient and transport and inserting an engineered T- cell receptor into those cells and then growing them to make them viable to kill cancer. CARTT cell therapy is probably the nearest comparison or quoted into the 400,000 $500,000 range of treatment and so that's not too far off and I'm not sure if something is different about this process that makes it a little bit more expensive. Insurance companies have been paying for CAT cells but obviously the cost is eye-catching. It's a continuing debate among the medical community about the resource intensity of these treatments and how to make that payoff worth it for everybody. But maybe more broadly, just to like couch that, the cost of medical care generally is incredibly high and it affects all of us, especially our patients. And there's a need to make therapies more affordable. I was recently at International Saroma Conference talking with a colleague and I learned that a treatment that we prescribe is over $600,000 a year and that's an oral pill. $600,000 a year is the estimated cost. And so if that treatment is working for a year or maybe a year and a half or two years, you know, you're approaching the cost of something like this as well. And people don't think of pills as costing as much as that, but they can. So while a famic is unique, it's also part of a bigger problem that's really important. So give us your key takeaways from this talk that we've had today on a famic cell for senovial cancers. What you would like other providers to take away and the key messaging. I think that the exciting thing here is that we have an effective therapy that can have a really durable response uh population of patients who we have not had that before and that can be really meaningful especially the time off of treatment where patients aren't necessarily getting chemo. I think that freedom is something that is not stressed enough because it means a lot to a patient to be able to not be getting infused every three weeks or every four weeks with chemotherapy. And so that can be life-changing for people who have a life-changing illness. I think it's really exciting for the medical community because this represents a novel way of treating patients that's like cartis cell therapy but a little bit different. And that's really exciting as well because it could potentially benefit our patients greatly. I know that there are going to be limited number of sites that are participating in this and so we're hoping that we can offer a good solution to patients from wherever they come and we're working with the cellular therapy group here who has obviously a lot of experience working with cartisel therapies to make sure that this is a streamlined good experience for patients as much as we can. Dr. Leler, thank you so much for joining us today and sharing your incredible expertise. For other providers to refer your patient to Dr. Leler at Pen Medicine, please call our 247 provider line at 877937P or you can submit your referral via our secure online referral form by visiting our website at penmed.org/refer your patient. That concludes this episode from the specialists at Pen Medicine. I'm Melanie Cole. Thanks so much for joining us.