Welcome everyone to the Penn Primary Care podcast. I'm your host Dr. Kendall Williams. So when we started this podcast, we had the idea that we would take information that was presented at grand rounds and other venues downtown in the city and really spread them out throughout the far-flung health system. And that was really the intention of this podcast. The ideal opportunity for that came when Dr. Richard Wender who is the chair of family medicine and community health recently gave a grand rounds cancer screening update and I asked Dr. Wender to come on the podcast and talk about the changes that are happening within cancer screening for the primary care community. So Dr. Richard Wender is the chair of family medicine and community at health at the University of Pennsylvania. He started his academic life at Princeton as an undergrad and then came to Penn Medicine for medical school and Jefferson for residency. He has been in Philadelphia as chair of the Jefferson Department of Family Medicine for 12 years before moving over to Penn. So, Dr. Wender, thanks so much for coming. Great to be here. Thank you. Has your entire career been in the Philadelphia region? Actually, almost all of it, but not all of it. When I left Jefferson in 2013, I actually went to work full-time for the American Cancer Society as their chief cancer control officer. So, it was an amazing opportunity. I led all of their screening and prevention work in the United States and around the world and worked there for six and a half years and then came to Penn as the chair of family medicine and community health here. So, cancer screening has been part of your career since the early days. It has. So, it's great to have you on to go over this. So we decided we would tackle five different areas. Colorectal cancer, lung cancer, breast cancer, cervical cancer, and then Dr. Wender is going to give us an update on potential multi-cancer detection blood tests, which may be the future, but may be here sooner than we expect. So let's start with colarctal cancer. And of course, the big change in the screening guidelines in this area is that we're now supposed to begin colurectal cancer screening at the age of 45. And as you pointed out in your grand rounds, all the major guideline organizations now agree with that. The American Cancer Society, the United Preventive Services Task Force, the American College of Gastronurology, and so forth. But Dr. Wender, what is the reason for it? Why are we now screening at 45? The key reason for this change is straightforward. It's actually not a good reason. It's a concerning reason, but it's an important reason. and that is that the incidence of premature early onset colurectal cancer before the age of 50 actually has been rising for several decades and it's been an inexraable rise still going up and when the American Cancer Society updated its guideline in 2018 they commissioned a set of models based on these new data what the risk is for colorectal cancer at every age from 40 on up and found that the most effective and efficient age to start screening is actually age 45 entirely based on this steadily rising incidence of colurectal cancer in these younger ages. One of the slides in your presentation also makes the point that it does seem to be distal cancers that are also rising, rectal cancers. Yes. Yeah, it's a good point. The biggest increase has actually been in rectal cancer and then in distal cancer to an extent, but just recently we're starting to see some increase in proximal cancers as well. So it looks like the whole colon is involved, but no question that the biggest increase has been in rectal and distal. So you also have a slide in here that indicates that most cancer deaths are going down. Colarctal cancer does not appear to be going down if you look at it going out another 20 years or so. Right. Yeah, we've seen a really a stunning decrease in colurectal cancer deaths in the older age groups 55, 60 and up. But we're now starting to see rising mortality not only in the group that's younger than 50, but we're starting to see rising mortality all the way up to age 55. And this is certainly because of this rising incidence trend in younger ages. This is what's called a birth cohort effect. It's based on the year of your birth. So, we absolutely expect to see that this increased risk will be carried forward as people age. And it puts even more emphasis on the importance of staying up to date with screening. And it's because of that rising incident in those younger age groups under the age of 50 that were really recommending starting screening earlier. Exactly. And and again, just so people can understand this concept of a birth cohort, the higher increase in the younger age groups, that increased risk will be carried forward as those people age into their 50s and 60s. It'll probably be carried with them for their whole life. And we're worried that the trend in people who were born even more recently might even be larger and more dramatic. Do we have any idea why this is happening? You know, there's it's it's really a critical question because it's almost certainly an environmental cause. It's unimaginable that we could have seen a genetic shift this quickly, but we're not sure what the environmental factors are. Unquestionably, diet. Something about our diets is important. Probably a third of this increase is due to the rise in obesity, but it doesn't explain the entire increase. So there's a lot of worries that there are other things in our diets and our food choices or perhaps how foods are prepared that are contributing to this increase in risk. Other possibilities that we're thinking about are antibiotic use patterns, change in the bacterial millia of the colon possibly related to patterns of eating and antibiotics, stress and obesity. stress alone might be playing some cause playing some role in this higher increase but it's really a critical area that we need to continue to explore. There's an issue that I've noticed and that is and I've read about it in different cancers but I'm curious because you have the broader perspective. We do seem to be seeing a shift in cancers occurring earlier in life. Is that accurate? You and I have had the exact same observation. We're seeing some increases in many cancers. It's most dramatic in colorectal cancer, but we are seeing some increase in breast cancers and a whole variety of cancer starting at a younger age. And I suppose that's not surprising. If there's something unhealthy in how we're living our lives, the level of stress, our eating patterns, the thought that it would affect only colurectal cancer is probably naive. Those same factors are very likely affecting our risk for other cancers as well. But you know we should keep in mind this is in the face of declining tobacco use and so that is some good news and we are seeing a drop in lung cancer incidents for example although we even in lung cancer we're seeing some slight increase in lung cancer risk in younger non-smokers people who've never had exposure to tobacco. Yeah I've seen some tragic cases of that. Let's get into the sort of the nitty-gritty of cancer screening for colon cancer. And we all use three options. We first preference is colonoscopy. Then there's fit testing and then there's fit DNA testing. So the recommendation is that we begin screening at the age of 45 using any of those modalities that are acceptable to the patient. Right. That's right. And all of the guidelines agree not just about the age to start. They also agree that the best test is the one that gets done. that all of these tests, if they're used correctly with high quality at the interval that they're recommended, result in essentially the same number of deaths prevented. That's completely dependent, however, on doing screening the right way. So, one of the great advantages of colonoscopy is that it's if it's normal, it's once every 10 years. So for busy people who don't want to be thinking about screening every year or every few years, it's really a terrific option assuming they have access and can afford and have insurance to get a colonoscopy. But if you keep up with an annual fit test, feal iminoitochemical test and absolutely get that colonoscopy if it tests positive, you will prevent essentially the same number of colurectal cancer deaths. It's just a lot harder for many people and many health systems to help patients keep up on annual testing. the the fit DNA and there's only one type made if people may not be familiar with that term fit DNA and the brand name is Colagard which in fact consists of a combination of two tests a fecal iminochemical test which actually con confers most of the benefit but you get about 20 to 23% more sensitivity with a one-time test by adding the stool DNA component that's why we call it fit DNA and that's paid for every 3 years and recommended every 3 years. Based on modeling, you might have slightly less effectiveness with that three-year interval, but you have the advantage that people can keep up with a test every 3 years more easily than a test every year. I use it quite a bit, mostly in my older population that's kind of tired of colonoscopies, but still want screening. It really represents a nice balance between the fit DNA testing and colonoscopy. I assume that that technology is probably going to evolve more and more and eventually we may be out of the business of doing colonoscopies, but you would know that better than me. You know, it's a really interesting point. There is evolution in our ability to detect cancer through evaluation of DNA in stool. There's urine tests, there's breath tests, and of greatest interest are blood tests, which we're going to talk about, you know, on this podcast where we look for cell-free DNA. So, yeah, absolutely. Our ability to find DNA represents a terrific advance. The one item or concern to keep in mind specifically for colurectal cancer is that colonoscopy is likely to always have an advantage for the detection of polyps. And since a lot of the decline in mortality that we've seen has actually been due to lower incidence of colorctal cancer because we find the polip, we remove it and about one out of every 100 polyps if it's left alone will develop into cancer. So if you get rid of the polyps, you actually completely prevent the cancer. It's not likely that any DNA test will perform quite as well. In fact, they will not perform as well for finding polyps. That's why colonoscopy is a 10-year interval test and FIT is every year and the FIT DNA is every three years because you can't afford to wait a full 5 to 10 years with those tests that are mainly detecting early cancers and don't have quite the sensitivity for pollen. The other argument I give for everybody getting a colonoscopy at their first as their first screening modality is that you can kind of determine whether you're a person that forms polyps, whether you're a person that forms a lot of polyps and we want to identify those people and we can only do that through colonoscopy. For instance, if they need more intensive screening, you know, you could figure out if they they're going to need more intensive screening than every 10 years. Perhaps even more important and an area that I don't think we're doing a great job is getting a thorough accurate family history while people are still in their 30s. And about a third of all of these early onset colurectal cancers actually the individual could have been identified at high risk if we had taken a really good family history. But you know as every primary care clinician knows that's easier said than done. You know people don't always know their family history. They'll tell you that, you know, their father had cancer. They don't know what type of cancer. They don't know how old they were when it was developed. And the EMR tools aren't easy to use for really recording a a thorough, detailed family history. Let me ask you about that though, because that's going to determine when we think about screening somebody even earlier than 45. What are the triggers for that? That's why I think family history really needs to you notice I said don't wait till the 40s. This is really, you know, mid20s or age 30 because if you have family members, particularly the closer to you in degree that they are, you know, parents and siblings obviously more likely to influence your risk than uncles and aunts. The more relatives you have with cancer and very importantly the age of onset of that cancer. So if you have even one first-degree relative who had an early onset colurectal cancer, that would be a trigger for considering genetic testing for the Lynch syndrome, which we're not doing enough of. We know that there's lots of people who would meet criteria for testing, but we just did not get that detailed family history. So it's the number of relatives, the closeness to the patient, and then the age of onset. Too often we gather the data about age of death, but the more important determine of course is when the cancer began. We're going to be doing a podcast coming up looking at genetic screening and so forth in cancer risk because it's becoming more of an issue that primary care physicians really need to know about. But going back to colon cancer, you make the point in your slides that a fair proportion of folks that have positive colarag guard or fit testing do not get colonoscopies, right? It's such a concerning fact because I don't need to tell this group that if you have a positive fit or a positive colig guard, we've now identified you at being at a very substantial risk to have something important. And if we don't do the colonoscopy, the patient gets no benefit whatsoever. So now you have a very high-risisk person who really needs screening with colon or needs that the completion of the screening process with a colonoscopy. And to have them not get that test is really a tragedy. So here at Penn, we're making a big push to increase our colurectal cancer screening rates. But part of that push is to really prioritize those people who have a positive fit or a positive fit DNA test. One of the most intriguing slides you had was giving some numbers of actual positive colonoscopies after a fit test. Right. So an average risk person getting a colonoscopy has a less than 1% chance of having cancer. But then if they have a positive fit test it goes up to 3% but almost one in five patients have an advanced adenoma. So it's usually a sign that something is going on or it often can be a sign that something is going on. But you know I often tell my patients just because you have a positive test it doesn't mean you have colon cancer but it does mean you you sort of failed the first screen so we've got to go to the second one. Yeah, the the numbers really are sobering and it just makes you realize that any program of screening needs to include as foolproof an approach as possible to making sure that anyone with an initial positive test gets that colonoscopy, which I like to consider the colonoscopy as a completion of the screening process. you know, even though you kind of get credit for having screened somebody if they just do the fit, you know, it's clear they're not going to benefit if they get a positive fit and don't get the colonoscopy. Can you take us through this little loophole that some patients are experiencing about the expense of a colonoscopy after a positive test? Yeah, you know, we've through work through the national colorectal cancer roundt which I had the honor of chairing for nine years and through the many many advocacy organizations in the patient advocacy world and the professional world have been working on the cost sharing that many people experience when they embark on colurectal cancer screening and there were two big issues that we've been trying to tackle. One is people going in for screening colonoscopy. A biopsy is done or for a little polip and it is then recoded as diagnostic and the patient who was expecting not to have a co-pay, not to have to pay a deductible all of a sudden has to pay a co-pay because the Affordable Care Act requires coverage without co-pay or cost sharing of any kind for recommended screening test. But once it's coded as diagnostic, all bets are off and you're, you know, lo and behold, quite a hefty co-pay can show up. 20% of the cost of a colonoscopy is a big number. So that's one thing we've been working on. And then the second thing is the one you mentioned and that is the people who have an initial abnormal test and then go for that completion of screening colonoscopy, but that follow-up colonoscopy is then coded as diagnostic instead of screening. So we've made tremendous progress in the policy world on both of these. There actually was a law passed in Medicare that will go into it actually just went into place that eliminates cost sharing if a polip is found or if a biopsy is done at the time of a screening colonoscopy in Medicare. So that's tremendous news. People will not get the surprise bill anymore. And the Affordable Care Act clarified, the administration clarified that there should not be a co-pay for that completion colonoscopy following an abnormal stool test. The one thing we're still trying to deal with is for the Medicare population who gets a follow-up colonoscopy following an abnormal sit, they are still facing the co-pay. So, we're still working with the administration and with Medicare to eliminate that co-pay. And when we get that last hurdle overcome, we'll be pretty close to being able to ensure everybody that their colonoscopy should not come with an additional charge, whether they have commercial insurance or Medicare, whether it was done as an initial colonoscopy or whether it was done as a follow-up test. But right now, that follow-up colonoscopy, a positive fit test or colar guard is still potentially patients are potentially can be built as a diagnostic colonoscopy co-pay in Medicare. Yes. But only in Medicare, right? That's the thing to emphasize. It's really in Medicare because in fact, it's interesting. I just got an email from the GI group here asking about this very issue for commercial patients. The one thing we have to make sure that the GI community understands is that they're perfectly safe and it's the right thing to do to build a follow-up colonoscopy after an abnormal fit as a screening test. You do not have to bill that as diagnostic and there will not be a co-pay in the commercial payer. Great. That comes up a lot and I wanted to go through that because even I was confused. Patients had brought it up to me and I said I don't know. So it's really helpful for you to outline that for us. So let's move on to lung cancer screening because there's been some changes. We did have Anil Vashani on to talk about pulmonary nodules and we went over a little bit of this but I want to hit the highlights on the changes in lung cancer screening guidelines. Can you tell us a little what what are some of the highlights that you think are most important to know about lung cancer screening? Well, I'd highlight three things. First of all, many people realize that this originally got added to our screening portfolio in 2013. Both the American Cancer Society and the task force around that time recommended lung cancer screening for the first time and it was based on a very large United States trial, the National Lung Cancer Screening Trial, which showed a 20% decline in mortality for the group who were screened. But to be eligible, you had to have had a 30 packear smoking history and either still smoking or have quit within 15 years. The good news is that since that trial came out, a number of very large European trials have been published. Plus, we've continued to follow the data through registries here in the United States. And in these trials and in real life experience, we're seeing even a larger benefit. And we're seeing that benefit in people who did not have as heavy a smoking history. So when we combine all that data together, the United States Preventive Services Task Force issued an update of the lung cancer screening guideline in 2021 that expanded the eligibility for screening. So now people not 55 to 80, which was the original guideline based on the national lung cancer screening trial, now the eligibility or ages 50 to 80. So that's five years earlier. And even more importantly is that the smoking threshold has been lowered from 30 pack years to 20 pack years. We still want people to be eligible either are continuing to smoke, they're smoking now, or they've quit within 15 years to be eligible. But that is going to expand the eligibility for screening by about 7 million people in this country who previously were not eligible who now are eligible for screening. You highlight that Italian study that showed a 39% mortality reduction in 10 years which is pretty impressive. Yeah. And even higher than that initially in women although they didn't enroll a lot of women initially they were focusing on men but there was a smaller subgroup with women. So absolutely these European trials have shown a greater benefit than what we found in the United States you know and it's not surprising this happens in all cancer screens. You know you start a trial. I mean the the national lung cancer screening trial started to enroll people around 2000 and then it takes 10 years of followup and then you analyze the data and then it gets published. But look at the technology that was being tested in 2000 versus the technology that we have today. So it's very important that we that once those first trials are done that we recognize that the field is going to continue to advance and we have to look at real world data. We have to look at more modern trials in order to keep updating the guidelines. Can you take us through this concept of shared decisionmaking when we talk about lung cancer screening and where we're at with that? Yeah, you know, it's a really great point and it's one that I I have a pretty strong feeling about. I'll tell the real life story of this which to quote Hamilton, you know, want to be in the room where it happens. And this was a case where I was in a little room with Medicare when they were deciding to cover lung cancer screening. And what happened is that the advisory committee to Medicare recommended against coverage. Not worth going into too much detail about why they did, but they did. They recommended against coverage. The trial just been published, and I think they were very conservative about covering screening tests in Medicare, but there was a good deal of evidence and a great deal of patient and public expectation that Medicare would cover. And so the advisory committee gave their recommendation. But then when it went to the group who makes the decision about coverage, they really were looking for a pathway that would ensure careful, high quality, well-informed patient screening. I'm not sure when that first decision was made, might have been 2014 or 15 in Medicare and they made the decision that including a requirement for shared decision-m would help ensure quality, would help make sure that patients knew what they were getting into. And that helped, I think, smooth the way towards a coverage decision. But here's my worry about this shared decision. The United States Preventive Services Task Force in their last update, in fact, even way back in 2014 gave this a B- rating. A B- rating means that the benefit outweighs the harms. There are harms, which we can get into, but the benefit clearly outweighed the harms. American cancer study essentially identical and that was even before these newer studies that show greater benefit. So the other cancers for which we recommend a shared decision like prostate cancer screening that's a C recommendation meaning that the benefits and risks are very closely matched not the case with lung cancer where everybody agrees that the benefits outweigh the risk. So my own feeling is that the time has come to eliminate the requirement of the shared decision-m in order to bill for the test. I think shared decision-m is an important practice. Patients should be informed. This is a screening modality that comes with some downsides. Far and away the most common downside is that a lot of people who are current or exmokers will have a little ditel, a little nodule found, a little something abnormal found at some point in their lives. Probably as many as 40 to 50% of patients if they were to screen every year for their whole remaining life. And as you know that means they may need six month followup which means anxiety and worry. And we've gotten really good at not biopsying very many of these, but occasionally you have to biopsy something that turns out not to be cancer. So there are some downsides. I like having it's important to have patients who understand the screening. I just don't think it needs to be required for billing and I think that's actually a barrier to getting the screening rates to go higher. I agree. I shared decision-m should be part of all screening. It certainly is part of the conversation for prostate cancer and you know following up on pulmonary nodules. I made a joke in our other podcast. I thought when I came back to primary care after doing hospitalist medicine for over a decade that I'd be managing hypertension and diabetes and I was swamped with all these pulmonary nodules mostly from the cardiac CTS that we were doing for calcium scoring. But so you see a lot of them. I'm a little surprised how many people have pulmonary nodules that need to be followed over time. But I agree with you. I mean, I I think shared decision-m should really be part of just what we do. Yeah, exactly. And particularly now that we have so much wonderful data about the benefit of lung cancer screening and here's why I'm I feel pretty strongly about it. I think including the requirement of the shared decision making for billing has kind of given the message to the quality improvement part of the world that it's really not a critical quality measure. uh whether people are screened or not. And I don't need to tell all of the you know the two of us and our whole audience that we pay a lot of attention to those things that are quality measures and it's hard to pay attention to things that we should be doing but we're not being measured or held accountable for it. I think lung cancer screening should become a quality measure. The shared decision-making though is interpreted as well, you know, it's not critical that every eligible person be screened and there actually is no heat measure for lung cancer screening and I think we need one. Yeah. Then it becomes challenging also to measure the quality because you never know what was in that discussion. Exactly. Yeah, that's true. So just one last question on this with the new guidelines coming out ages 50 to 80 with a 20 pack year history. Are you having any trouble or should we be having any trouble with getting payment on that or having it covered for patients? Yeah, it's a great question and I was quickly going to answer and say we really shouldn't. You know, you always kind of whenever you say that, you know, you turn around and you'll start to hear patient stories of people who did have trouble. I will tell you that whenever guidelines change, particularly now that it's linked to the task force recommendations, I believe that the commercial payers do get a year to catch up, but that year's about up. So over the next year or two, I really hope that commercial insurance coverage is not an issue. And I should say that Medicare has already changed their coverage to match the new guidelines. So I think we're in good shape there. The one thing I', as I said, I'd still like to see them encourage shared decision-m but not link it to billing. And for now, that's still in the new coverage decision. So, we covered breast cancer in a previous discussion, but I want to go into this as well because breast cancer is very important and we we see it a lot. We see this comes up a lot. I think the first main question in breast cancer screening is that all women should be screened at the age of 40. But you go through in your presentation about some of the details of how that came to be. Can you take us through that? Yeah, you know, deciding the right age to start screening is one of the toughest decisions for those of us who are in the screening guideline business. Anyone who's ever been on a guideline panel knows how difficult it is to figure out the ideal starting age for a recommendation. And the way it comes about honestly is that you know years back people launched a trial you know a screening trial comparing offering screening to one group and usual care to a different group. And in order to make sure that they see a benefit they tend to choose an age where they think the risk for cancer is pretty high. So some of the early trials for breast cancer picked age 50. A few did include a group starting at 40. there. It's now been after many decades proven and and the investigators agree that the best known trial, the Canadian screening trial, was flawed, particularly for women in their 40s. And frankly, I think those we now just should dismiss those findings completely. A lot of people are unaware of more modern-day data that has followed millions and millions of women around the world showing the tremendous relative benefit of screening starting at 40, which is terrific. If you want a reliable number that easy to stand by, it's a 40% lower risk of dying of breast cancer in every age group comparing those who get screening to those who don't. Population screened to a population not screened. The difference is that it it's just not as common in younger women. It's common but not as common. So the benefit versus the drawbacks of screening ratio is a bit lower in younger women and goes up as women hit their 50s and 60s. And that age range right between 40 and 45 is a tough age range. You have to do a huge number of mammograms to prevent a single death. The majority of women will not have breast cancer in that age, but some will. And that's why the American Cancer Society and the task force have encouraged a shared decision process starting at 40. And then the ACS says by 45, everyone should start if they haven't already. The task force says by 50 if they haven't already started. But I do agree. I think many women place very high value on the opportunity to prevent a breast cancer death and opt to start either right at 40 or shortly after 40. And I think that's a perfectly reasonable and good decision. You have a slide that shows the incident rates by age, 35, 36, 37, and on up to 45. And there really is a jump between the age of 39 and 40. That, you know, is meaningfully significant, it seems to me. Yeah, there is. There's a jump in in that. And then another quite substantial increase by the time you get to 45. So I think what that says is that screening in the 30s is too young. You know there is a good rationale to make 40 the starting age. It does it but I don't you know every doctor every has seen more women than they wish to have seen who who've developed breast cancer younger than age 40. So it's certainly not a rare disease before 40. But there is a good rationale because of that increase around age 40 41 42 each year goes up to pick 40 as the initial age. you still have to do a lot of mammograms. The probability of being diagnosed in a one-year interval at age 40 is 106 incidents per 100,000 women at 40. And by 45, that's 165. So that interval between 40 and 45 is an interval where the risk is going up pretty substantially yearbyear. And unquestionably women in my view women should start screening somewhere in that interval if not right at 40. The task force is updating their breast cancer guideline right now. And my hope is that in this updated guideline from the task force that they what they currently say is that a woman has the option of starting at 50. I just don't think the evidence supports that. I really think that 44 45 is really the latest age that a woman should start screening. I think the difference between the the risk at 45 to 49 versus 50 to 54 is not very great. And I really would like to see the task force lower their age by which a woman definitely should start. Another factor in this is the situation of women at that age of life. You know, many women have children who are still young. they're in the midst of their careers, building their careers and so forth. So, I don't know. It seems like those factor in as well, just in terms of maybe it's more qualitative than it is anything else, but just in terms of their how vital they are for other people. No, you know, I think that's absolutely right. I mean, I've had lots of discussions about what we value, what individuals value, and what we value as a society. And everyone should understand that when you do guidelines, you are making a value judgment. You're balancing benefits and risks. You don't come out with a perfect gold standard balance. You ultimately have to apply a value. You know, how much cost, how much risk, how many tests are we willing to do to acrue a certain amount of benefit. And I totally agree with you. I think the opportunity to avoid an early breast cancer diagnosis and certainly an early breast cancer death is something that's highly valued by women, by families, by loved ones, by society as a whole. And so as a result, we do a lot of mamograms to find relatively few cancers. But there's a reason for that. It's avoiding, you know, people never want to die prematurely of cancer, but losing all those years of life lost through an early potentially avoidable death is something that we all should strive for. Absolutely. So, I want to just skip ahead a little bit and get your thoughts on fast MRI and women with dense breasts and where we're at with that. Yeah, it's pretty exciting and our colleagues here at HeadP have been right at the center of this research. Emily Conan, she's not the only one in the group, but just I learned so much in talking to her. Literally, she and I were just emailing earlier today about dense breasts and some of the risks. Here's the bottom line. Mamography is not very accurate in women, particularly with the highest category of dense breast, the very dense breast category. And that's such an important group because those women are at higher risk of dying of breast cancer for two reasons. One, they're actually at higher risk for developing breast cancer. breast density is a risk factor. And then number two, they're at higher risk for having that cancer missed on a screening mammogram. So over the past decade, there's been intense interest in a better way to screen those women who are found on their first mammogram to have dense and particularly the category of very dense breast. So we talked about at the grand rounds guidelines from expert groups of radiologists who have compared digital tomosynthesis, the mammogram that we now do routinely to adding an ultrasound to adding an MRI and abbreviated or fast MRI is clearly the most accurate of the options. Ultrasound can find some cancers that are missed on mamography in women with dense breasts, but abbreviated MRI outperforms it. So the real challenge is making sure that abbreviated MRI is available and affordable right now you can get that at Penn but is insurance going to cover it and that may need to be appealed whereas ultrasound is more routinely covered and if you go to rural America or travel elsewhere there's a good chance it won't be available at all. My prediction is that over the next decade you will see fast or abbreviated MRI become the test of choice for women who are have very dense breasts. And it wouldn't amaze me, it wouldn't shock me if it actually becomes the routine screening test for those women and maybe will not need to be combined with a mammogram first. You know, maybe you'll go straight to abbreviated MRI once the category of density is known. So, we're right on the cutting edge here at Penn and keep following the research that the group here working with colleagues around the country are working on and I think we're going to get some clarification. But right now, if abbreviated MRI is available for one of your patients who's found to have very dense breasts, you shouldn't hesitate to get it. And it's for those folks that we identify as potentially being at higher risk due to genetic factors or have dense breast as you described. Yes, thanks for bringing that up. That's a key differentiation. women who have a 20% lifelong risk of developing breast cancer which is basically two groups. Those are women who are Bracka carriers or women who had chest radiation which was usually done for lymphoma at a younger age have a 20% or greater lifelong risk and actually the recommendation for those women is that they have um screening MRI not abbreviated MRI that they actually have combination of mammogram and MRI starting at a young age even before 40 if they're in those very high risk groups. What we're talking about with abbreviated or fast MRI is right now is mainly for those women who are found to have very dense breasts. So let's skip over to cervical cancer screening. I had been trained in primary care and had had done paps earlier in my career and then didn't do them for about 15 years. So when I came back into primary care I said I'm not going to do any more paps. So I I've lost touch a little bit with the cervical cancer screening. And so, you know, your discussion of it has been very helpful. So, let's go through this. And I think probably the key thing that happened in the 15 years while I was away is just the recognition of HPV testing and that coming to the forefront of our screening strategies, right? Oh, unquestionably. I mean, it's it's a Nobel Prize winning work that it's really just an incredible story for how science works. I mean, when we were in medical school, nobody had any clue that HPV, a virus, was responsible for almost every case of cervical cancer, let alone five other types of cancer, either all or some of five other types of cancer. So first of all, someone had to discover that this was related to a viral infection and showed that in some women that infection persists and then show that infection is linked to cervix cancer and then come up with ways to find the vir. You know, it's just an incredible story to go from very basic science to a very practical strategy. And increasingly as time goes on, we're recognizing that the presence of a high-risisk type of HPV, particularly 16 and 18, although there are other types that are associated with cancer risk, too, is a much stronger predictor for future cancer risk than the papsmear, which has lots of false positives or findings that are not important, particularly if they're not accompanied by a high-risisk HPV type. So now there are really sort of three screening approaches, right? You can do HPV testing, you could do HPV with a PAP, or you could do a PAP alone, right? Yeah, that's right. But it it's such an interesting area that's going to be rapidly evolving. I think everybody's got to be watching where we're going here because this is one case. It's actually the only time I can remember in my whole career where the guidelines were way out ahead of practice and practice at least for now wasn't really catching up in the United States. These are very strongly embraced screening strategies. The vast majority of women are being screened with one of two strategies which is a papsmear every three years and that is what guidelines have recommended leading before age 30 anyway you know without HPV testing and then 30 on up the combination testing with papsmear and HPV every 5 years assuming that the results are normal so that's become the predominant mode of screening but the task force in their last update which was a few years ago lo and behold for the time said, you know, there's another option, and that's to screen with HPV alone, skip this path. There were some problems with implementing it back then. But the American Cancer Society in their most recent update moved it along even further by saying pretty clearly that testing with HPV alone was the preferred strategy. And they also recommended for the first time starting at 25 rather than 21, which we've done for years. I don't think anybody or almost no one has made those. It's probably fairer to say almost no one has switched to HPV testing alone starting at 25 every 5 years. I just don't think that's been widely adopted. And I actually called my colleague Dr. Debbie Sasslo who's one of the world's experts in this at the American Cancer. I said, "Hey Debbie, you know, do you think practice is ever going to change?" And what she said to me is wait for the next task force update. If they come out with a stronger statement that HPV alone is the preferred test, then we'll start to see practice change, particularly if that impacts coverage. It will be an interesting change because you do find a few rare cancers with the papsmear that are missed on HPV, not you know, by the usual criteria we apply. it would not be considered an efficient use of resources, but it's very hard to back off on testing. It's a lot easier to get more intense with screening. The public and practitioners will respond to any sense that you might miss a woman who might have otherwise been detected. So, that was a lot to digest allin one. Let let me just make it real simple. For now, we're sticking, you know, most people are doing a papsmear every 3 years, 21 to 30. Majority of women are doing this combination testing pap and HPV every 5 years starting at 30 and we're watching for the future of primary HPV testing alone. Well, I've already declared my ignorance so I can ask a stupid question. So what happens if you get an HPV test that's positive but you haven't done a pap? What do you do with the information? Yeah, the pap smear then becomes the reflex test. You know, rather than what we might have done in the old days with a pap and a reflex HPV, it'll go the reverse way. So, you'll do the HPV alone first if that's abnormal, you'll do a pap smear to see what the cells show and then decide whether a culposcopy is needed. The other point you make in your slides is is sort of on the other end of things when we stop screening and basically ensuring that we continue to screen older women who are still at risk. Can you highlight that? Yeah, thanks for asking about that one because that's really an opportunity we're missing. And the numbers that I shared in the talk is that 21% of all cases of cervix cancer are diagnosed in women 65 and older and 36% of all deaths occur in women 65 or older. So then that's going to force people who do papsmear testing to go well then why are we stopping screening at 65 which is what all the guidelines recommend. And here's how you make sense of the recommendation with those concerning sets of numbers. And that is that if a woman is not fully up todate with cervix cancer screening, 65 is not the stopping age. In the latest ACS guideline, for example, the recommendation was to stop at 65 only if a woman has either had two negative HPV tests, two CO tests, or three negative Path tests in the last 10 years with the most recent one being within 5 years. And if so, if a woman is not fully up to date in the previous decade on her screening, you should continue to screen that woman until she meets that criteria of being fully up to date. So what I know is has occurred in the United States is a woman who's maybe had one papsmear at age or pap HPV dual test at 63 co- test at age 60 and then a doctor or clinician sees them at 65 and said well you're 65 you don't need to be screened anymore but in fact the past 10 years may have had or 15 years may have only had one test so we got to make sure that the woman has been fully screened that means more than one screening test in the previous 10 years before we stop. That's great. So, let's end on this positive note of potentially this circulating DNA and what we might see in screening technology coming up into the future. Can you highlight that for us? It's really pretty extraordinary. I would say that there's tremendous excitement about our ability to do a blood test and detect circulating cellfree DNA. And then some companies are looking at other measures, different proteins in the blood. There are other blood tests and a number of companies are then combining analysis of the DNA with some of these other markers. And then they're able to say that yes, there is an indication that this patient has cancer. And I heard a a stat about six months ago that there's close to 30 companies who are working on screening tests that rely on blood testing to find DNA. There's basically two approaches that companies are taking. Some companies are working on a self-free DNA blood test to detect cancers for which we already have a screening strategy, mainly colurectal cancer. and they're saying, "Gee, if we can show a blood test that outperforms a stool test, we're going to be able to screen a lot more people." And I think there's a real argument to be made for that. There was at least one study showing that patients who were not up to date with screening had a very high adherence rate to blood testing for colurectal cancer. Unfortunately, that was in a test that ended up not being covered by Medicare. But the good Medicare has actually set specific criteria. They say if a blood test can show this level of sensitivity and specificity, we will cover the test for screening and I can virtually guarantee you in the next few years we will see FDA approved and Medicare covered blood tests to screen for colurectal cancer. But the what I talked about more in the grand rounds talk were multi-cancer detection tests. Blood tests that can detect multiple cancers. The best known company that's very has huge investment and is already on the market is a test manufactured by a company called Grail. G R AI L. And the test has a name called Gallery. G- A L L E R I. The Gallery test. And they have done extensive large studies. They have another very large trial going with the Gallery test now. and they've shown the ability to detect over 50 different cancer types and they're able to say with a very high level of specificity 93% of cases they correctly identified what organ the cancer started in. So the way the test is done is they rely on something called methylation. If you're interested it's a fun little Google to Google about DNA methylation. It's like each cell type has a little fingerprint based on this methylation pattern. And so they do the test and they come up with a cancer signal or no cancer signal. And then if it shows a cancer signal, they then run the more detailed analysis looking at these methylation fingerprints to predict or report the likely organ of origin. One of the really interesting findings they're coming up with is the one place where they're not quite as accurate with which organ it started in are the HPV related cancers. It turns out that the HPV related cancers have a very similar methylation pattern whether they were orangial or whether they're cervix or vaginal. If they're caused by HPV, their DNA signature looks pretty similar. But beyond that, they're very good at predicting what organ this came from. There's another company that's actually owned by Exact Sciences, the same group that makes Colagard called the Thrive test and the company's called Thrive and they did a trial called Cancer Seek that also showed ability to find about 65% of cancers. So, it's very exciting because one, it's a blood test. That's pretty cool. You know that patients will gravitate towards a blood test for cancer rather than something more different than that or invasive in any way. It can detect cancers that we today have no screening test for and that includes some very serious cancers. We know that these cancers have a much better five-year survival found at earlier stages rather than late. The Grail test and the Thrive test only have about a 15 to 16% detection for stage 1 cancers. But that's mainly because these stage one cancers are not shedding DNA. If DNA is shedding, these tests are very good at finding them. They do pretty well at stages two and three. So all very promising, very exciting. Here's the worry or the drawback or what we're going to have to learn. The biggest thing is we have not proven that early detection results in lower mortality for most of the cancers that can be detected through these tests. We've never proven that you can find pancreas cancer at a curable stage or liver cancer at a curable stage or bladder cancer at a curable stage. So normally we require a randomized trial before we recommend a screening test. That's going to be awfully hard to do in a multi-cancer detection test. The second challenge is that once you get the signal, what test are you supposed to do next? You know, if it comes back and says, well, we think you might have pancreas cancer, then what should you do? Is the proper next test an MRI? Is it a, you know, endoscopic MRI? You have to figure that out. And there's going to need to be a whole library of recommendations for next tests. And then you're going to get into issues of cost, insurance coverage, both for the initial test and for follow-up testing. So the Gallery test, I think they're charging $940. But it's interesting. I was just kind of googling around for this stuff. And there are some tests that can detect five cancers, blood tests for more affordable levels, like $150. I don't know very much how they perform, but I'm going to try to find out. So, putting that all together, this is in our future. It's going to happen. How quickly it happens will be very interesting. My own sense is we should be deliberate and not rush them out to market so quickly that we have, you know, a demand for the test without really having answered some of these very important questions, including can we really expect that there will be lower mortality as a result of the testing. So, I'm part of a big national consortium of thought leaders right now. we're just getting going that are trying to grapple and give recommendations about these tests. I'm actually leading the group who's going to be making recommendations about follow-up testing. What do you do if you get an abnormal result? So, we have a lot to learn. I'm eager to be a part of that and try to help answer those questions. I have to say that's one of the more exciting things I've heard in medicine in a long time. And I appreciate the problem. So we're going to have the same issue of all the false positives or finding the DNA in the serum, but there's no, you know, manifestation of it in in the organ yet or so. I'm sure we're going to have all kinds of problems, but those sound like fun problems to try and solve given what is at the end that holy grail. I'm sure that's where they got the name for this. I am sure that is where they got the name from. No doubt about. And I've seen some of their data. It's pretty strong that there aren't quite as many of these false positives as you might anticipate that there would be. Uh it's not like they're going to be hundreds and hundreds of patients for every one cancer. So I think from just pure performance characteristics, they can do pretty well. I think the biggest question we have to answer and figure out how to answer in a smart way is will it result in better outcomes for patients? That's the ultimate goal of a screening test. Well, Rich, it's been terrific having you on. It's been you presented some fascinating information particularly this latter discussion and helping to clarify a lot of the confusion regarding the changes in cancer screening. I really appreciate it. Well, it's a real pleasure to be on. Love the conversation. Well, I hope we can have you back and if anything changes, please send me an email. Let me know that you want to come back on and talk about something specific because it seems like you really have your finger on the pulse of this and we're all, you know, waiting to see how things turn out. So, let's keep an open uh email here. We'll do. Absolutely. Thanks, Rich. So, I'm going to end with a program note. We have had a some delay in our podcast schedule because mostly because of folks schedules and also have had to vary around a little bit some of our topics. We try to keep things in a thematic series, but that's not always possible. But I hope you stick with us. We've got some interesting things coming down the line, even if we will be skipping around a little bit, mostly because of folks schedules being away and everything else that happens during conference season and summer. So, thank you everyone for joining the Penn Primary Care Podcast. Please join us again next time. Please note that this podcast is for educational purposes only. For specific questions, please contact your physician.