Welcome everyone to the Penn Primary Care podcast. I'm your host Dr. Kendall Williams. I'm honored today to have back on our podcast some of my colleagues from the division of general medicine here at Penn with a specialty in addiction medicine to talk about really the epidemic of our time and that is the opiate epidemic. Fentanel in particular that started in 2013 crested to take the lives of over a 100,000 people. At one point it is now thankfully seemingly reducing. In the last couple years we've had a somewhat of a reduction in the mortality numbers from the opiate use epidemic, but it's still a major problem. If you practice at Penn, our downtown hospitals through 2024, we're getting more admissions for patients with opiate use disorder and it's a major challenge on the inpatient services and a major challenge for us in the outpatient environment as well. So, I'm really happy to have my colleagues back. Dr. Rachel Trusel is here again. She's in the division of general medicine. Dr. Maggie Loenstein who just had an RO1 funded in addiction with addiction focus and Dr. Ashish Takar is also here. Ashish Rachel Maggie thanks for again for being here. >> Excited to join. Thanks so much for having us. >> Thank you. >> So I am still doing inpatient medicine. So I do see most of patients that I see with opiate use disorder are in the inpatient environment. I do have a couple of patients in my outpatient practice, but for the most part, most of what I manage is inpatient. And so, we're going to actually have a little bit more of a focus inpatient than our typical podcast. But we're also going to sort of jockey between as we talk about the inpatient environment for management of opiate use disorder, also how that translates into the outpatient environment and how it mirrors. So I wanted to start with some very basic questions so that us as providers can understand what our patients are experiencing, what their lives are like and ask intelligent questions about their opiate use disorder. So mostly now in the modern day when we talk about opiate use disorder, we're talking about fentanyl. And so I'm going to throw out the question first. How does one get fentanyl? How does it come when you get it? How much does it cost? And then I want to also help us gauge some numbers in terms of estimating the degree of use. So let me just start with just those basic questions. How does one get fentanyl and how does it come? Maggie, let's start with you. >> Fentanyl is a street drug that is available just I think not obviously this is not pharmaceutical grade fentinel or pharmaceutically manufactured fentinel. This is typically illicitly manufactured fentinyl that is sold outside of the medical system. And so I think this is typically coming through like street level drug dealers. And I am not going to pretend to be an expert in sort of all the drug trade in how this all gets to wear, but essentially people are usually purchasing this on the street. It typically comes in increments of bags and then a bundle is a sort of a usually like but 10 to 15 bags and it typically comes as like a white powder which becomes relevant because we're going to talk about some of the adulterants that are in there and you know it's sort of hard to distinguish what it all kind of looks physically the same but there's also sort of other filling agents and things like that but it comes as a white powder. People can mix it up with like a liquid and inject it. they can snort it and increasingly we're seeing people actually smoke fentinel and so it can be sort of used through these various routes of administration. Yeah, I think that answers your question. Does do other people have things to add? >> Yeah, I guess I'll just add that fentinyl it's a commonly sold as a white powder in Philadelphia. It's sold in bags. It's I actually have an empty one here. I don't know if that's a small little glassine bag with a stamp on it. in Baltimore where I did a lot of my training. It was sold in little like gel capsules that people would pack in there. It's a white powder. It can be sold in lots of different ways, but locally here in Philadelphia, bags and bundles is kind of the most common way. And that's in distinction with other kind of geographic areas. In the West Coast, a lot of fentinel is solless pressed tablets. They're sometimes blue. It's also very regional there. So, you will also get white fentanyl powder there. But in some places they'll buy what commonly called ventyl blues which are that powder can be colored and then pressed into a tablet. And then occasionally on the east coast as well depending where you are sometimes common sometimes is rare. Something that's sold as a cold percoet can be a pressed tablet of again what is fentinyl. Asking patients how much they are using can be helpful just to get an idea as to how frequently they're using and their overall level of dependence on the substance. So somebody's risk of withdrawal and the severity of their addiction can be very different if they're using three bags a day versus two bundles a day. And so asking patients specifically how much they're using is a relevant question. >> Yeah, two bundles would be 20 or 25 bags, right? As opposed to three or maybe even 30 bags, right? So by the math that Maggie gave me. And so I had a patient once who was very open about this and I spent some time asking her about the dynamics of this and she described that she would get a bag and she would put it in water and then pull it up in a syringe and then inject it. Right? So, she was using it as an injectable. I gather that's how most people are still using it. You mentioned that you can smoke it. You can take it by mouth, but I had the impression that most people are injecting it. >> I think there's a wide variety of ways that that people use them. And I think often times when patients are starting by initiating their substance use with maybe Percoet, they will then transition to sniffing fentanyl. And so it becomes using powder and sniffing it similar to snorting cocaine. And then sometimes that then transitions into injections. But we see a lot of patients that continue to use it intraasally and never transition to using intravenously. But there is definitely as Maggie said a trend towards increasing use of smoking and inhaling the fentanyl in Philadelphia. I will also say as she mentioned that just the way that drugs come is very regional and there's also a lot of kind of it's fairly dynamic in terms of trends of how people use it. There's and it's also even within the city it's a little bit regional or kind of there there are many different kind of pockets of common ways that people use and just like Rachel's point about the amount that's used the route of administration is very important to ask about both from kind of thinking about some of the infection risk or prevention strategies and it also becomes relevant because a lot of harm reduction is really directed towards injection drug use and so sometimes those interventions end up missing people who don't use by injection which is large and in some places growing group the route of administration is relevant to ask too. I think sometimes in the hospital especially when we're seeing infectious complications we may see more people higher proportion of people who inject just because on a medical service you're often admitting people with complications of injection drug use although not exclusively. I want to ask about the cost, but I want to pause for a moment because at one point when I was managing this, it came to me this idea that I think that this is the most the singularly most addictive substance that the human race has ever encountered. I don't I mean there are in terms of its overall effect. I've never seen addiction levels this high in folks. So, but I don't know, maybe that's a little out of bounds, but I've been very impressed by how addictive it is. I mean, I guess when you're thinking about the severity of addiction, it sounds like maybe one of the things you're seeing, which is something we see every day, is the severe disruption to patients lives causes that continued use despite such profound consequences in people's lives. And it's so true and it's so visible, I think, with opioid use disorder, especially in Philadelphia when there was xylazine and a lot of people were injecting. I think it's very visible there. I think that severity of addiction is true for alcohol and it's sometimes not as visible because we don't see people's livers externally, right? It's true for cocaine as well. It's true for I think a lot of substances unfortunately. But yes, certainly with opioids it's I think very visible especially when you're working in the hospital. >> My measure of it is just the lengths to which people will go to continue using the drug. But that's besides the point. I want to talk about cost. Actually before we get to cost, can I just say just whenever folks mention that I always just like to remind listeners so much of the joy of practicing addiction medicine is seeing the transformation from that to when people get better because people do get better. And I think for audience members who maybe practice mostly exclusively in the hospital, you might not see that as much, but folks recover and people do get better and that brings so much joy to see that transformation. So I just wanted to state that upfront to remind folks about that. Yeah, Ashish, that's a very good point and I certainly see skewed population in my circumstance. So, you know, when I was talking with this young lady about her opiate use disorder, I was somewhat impressed by the cost that she had to incur in order to maintain it. And I wanted to go over that with you because I think it does affect other aspects of people's lifestyle. Right. So, do we have any sense of what a bag of fentanyl costs on the street? >> My understanding is that a bag is anywhere between5 to $10. Okay. So, somebody that is using say a bundle which 10 to 15 is looking at somewhere between $50 and $100 a day of cost, right? And so it can be expensive, right? 1,500 to 3,000 a month, right? >> Yeah. So, a lot of people, you know, engage because there's many reasons to want to engage in recovery and obviously there's a significant financial toll that this is inflicting on individuals as well. I mean, maybe just to say one piece, I do think that it's worth approaching patients who have a history of substance use with a particularly trauma-informed lens because either through addiction through the lifestyle that is part of that like people have experienced profound levels of trauma and so including often at the hands of the health care system. So I do think it's probably just relevant to point out to listeners that wherever people are presenting whether it's like the hospital, the ED or the clinic that like this is just good medicine in general. But I think being particularly sensitive to that with this patient population because I think they've often received a lot of like pretty subpar medical care and certainly sometimes outrage discrimination. So just coming in is very difficult sometimes. And so I think just being sort of able to acknowledge that and to approach it with approach people with like a particular care around potential trauma is like a really important piece of this whether it's incarceration or sort of other other traumatic experiences sex work like you mentioned. So let's talk about withdrawal which we see in the inpatient as patients present to us oftentimes in withdrawal in the emergency department but also I believe in the outpatient setting. I mean, I think the symptoms of fentanyl withdrawal are similar to the symptoms of opiate withdrawal, whether it's heroin or other forms of narcotics, often some GI symptomatology, nausea, vomiting, some pyloro erection, just an overall general feeling of unwellness with maybe even feeling like you have the flu, chills and aches and so forth. Does that capture it or is there more to it when you're talking about fentanyl and specifically? >> No, I think you you capture the key things. It's opioid. It's an opioid and we're talking about opioid withdrawal syndrome which is very well described. I think it's pretty useful to look at what is in some of the common assessments cows being the most common. So I encourage folks to just look at MD cal and just perform the assessment yourself. You can generally know it when you see it, but there are also lots of mimics and some people are using multiple substances. And if they're hospitalized, they have many reasons to feel generally unwell. And so it can be it can take a little bit of clinical acumen to just try to assess does someone have objective signs of opioid withdrawal. The more specific symptoms there would be pupilary dilation, pyo erection like you mentioned, yawning and then nausea, vomiting often typically accompanies that as well. Ashish, you mentioned cows and how obviously it's very helpful to quantify the degree of withdrawal and the degree of symptomatology which is the reason for cows. Are there any caveats about using cows that we should be aware of? >> Yes, absolutely there are some caveats. I think there is quite a bit of variability in the score that you'll get between different people who perform the assessment. The assessment includes questions like how dilated is the patient's pupils? And that can be dependent on your own physical exam experience. It can be dependent on the ambient light in the room. There are components of it that involve asking patients how they're feeling. And so if they're feeling ill for other reasons, then that can confound that assessment as well. >> How about vital sign abnormalities just with fentanyl withdrawal? Patients can be uncomfortable. O imagine they can be tacocartic but they're not going to be hypotensive or necessarily hypertensive like we might see with benzo or alcohol withdrawal right >> I think it's probably best just to talk about as opioid withdrawal because there's actually so for opioid withdrawal in general you can get tacoc cardia and hypertension that's certainly part of it it's typically not profound hypertension and tacoc cardia and that's not normally the first symptom or the earliest sign whereas for alcohol withdrawal the adinuric hyperactivity hypertension tacoc cardia some of the earlier signs signs that you typically see. So if you're going to have hypertension tachicardia from opioid withdrawal from any opioid then you're going to also have other signs and symptoms along with it. >> And the reason I'm asking this question is because patients are often also using benzodazipines or they are drinking alcohol and or there's metatomodine which we're going to talk about in a minute. And so the vital sign abnormalities become I think a part of trying to figure out what it is you're actually treating. >> Oh can I just add one thing about that too? I think you're right there. There there's a lot of confounding between potential overlapping withdrawal syndromes. The other thing that I think potentially confounds this Ashish mentioned already, but just to reiterate kind of more explicitly is like the symptoms overlap with a lot of other clinical presentations. And so I've certain I've seen people who have sort of a history of substance use in their chart and come in tacocartic and hypertensive from appendicitis or something like that which is completely a physiologic and then get labeled as opioid withdrawal and not get the full fresh assessment. So, I would just encourage people when they're seeing someone who, especially if they're ill enough to feel like they need to come to the hospital to just not assume that some of the abnormalities that will elevate some of these withdrawal scales are attributable only to a withdrawal and just kind of maintain a broader differential. I think that's something that trips people up a lot. So, that's fentanyl and I wanted to talk about that in its pure form, if you will, fentanyl withdrawal or opiate withdrawal generally. But of course, the thing that's been omnipresent in the drug supply in Philadelphia for the last few years has been xylazine and now that's transitioning to metatomodine. But let's talk about xylazine first. It's an alpha 2 agonist. So it's in the category in the family of clonodine. I think that's the drug we're probably most familiar with, which is also related to dex metatomdine or precedex which we've used in the ICUs for sedation and other uses for a while. So, it's in that category, but it was a veterary drug as my understanding. Was not used by humans until it it found its way into the drug supply. Does anybody know why it found its way into the drug supply? Is it just because it was cheaper and it could be added in? >> I think the theory or one of the theories that I've heard a lot is that it is a sedative. And so, one of the things about fentanyl is that it has a fairly rapid onset and then people go into withdrawal more quickly than something like heroin. And so it perhaps prolongs the sedation. I don't think we totally know, but I think that's the theory and that is what you see with some of these additional sedatives, whether it be xylazine or metatomine. Like if someone is overdosing with adulterated fentinyl and they're given nlloxxone to reduce their over or reverse their overdose, they will begin to breathe again, but they may remain sedated. And so again, that's sort of part of this clinical picture, but I think that's the theory. So the main effect we see of xylazine and that effect is these wounds that it causes on the extremities in basically any part of the body that can be quite dramatic lead to osteomiitis that can be quite deep and so forth difficult to heal. It's always been confusing to me because my understanding is the wounds can occur remotely from your sight of injection and potentially through other forms of use other than injection. You can get xylazine wounds, but that's been contradicted by other things I've read and I'm asking you guys for clarity on that. Can you get xylazine wounds without injecting it and without injecting it into the spot that you're getting the wounds? I think there is a broad range of what wounds look like that have been attributed to xylazine. So my simple answer to you is yes to all of that. There are some scattered ulcerations that patients will have in places like their knuckles, back of their hands, places where they even if they happen to inject drugs that not places where they are injecting. So people who don't inject drugs will devel seem to develop those ulcerations. Those seem similar to early stage xylene wounds in other places like the dorsal part of the extremities that if untreated and particular people inject into can progress to become confluent areas of nonviable tissue like escar being the kind of the most common form of that. So the kind of most severe wounds for patients that we're seeing, they often started as scatter ulcerations. They may have not been places where people started injecting, but in my experience, the largest wounds that we see tend to occur only among people who are injecting into those areas. And it sometimes is a complicated series of events where the wound was not at a place where someone was injecting. And then it does become quite painful and it also becomes maybe the area around it becomes a little more hypervascularized and it becomes a place where people do start injecting after the fact and then it can lead to a bit of a vicious cycle where the wound get worse and for people who do have those wounds who stop injecting into those areas but who might continue to use the wounds do seem to be able to heal. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> So it's kind of a complex interplay there. >> Yeah. I mean I think the good news is for a lot of the patients we see they still have good vascular supply. We worry about wounds in diabetics. Traditionally those were the ones that we would see and be concerned about which you in that case you have microvascular destruction but in this case folks have good vascular supply and should be able to heal those over time. Something I always tell patients to try and make them feel a little bit better about these wounds and the fact that they still can heal. So that's I think our experience with xylazine. And then you all have laid out in the lecture you gave for the division of general medicine the fact that increasingly we're seeing more metatomodine as an additive in with fentanyl and less xylazine which is good because we're seeing I assume less wounds as a result but metatomodine is similar to xylazine in the sense it's in that same family as an alpha 2 agonist. It's as you noted in your slide 100 times more potent than xylazine and you are seeing hemodynamic effects with it to the degree that I don't know that we're seeing with xylazine. So somebody who's actively uh has metatamine in their system much like they would if they were had high levels of clonine in their system they'd be hypotensive brada cartic and so forth. And then similar to what you might see with clonodine withdrawal, you get a rebound effect. If somebody's withdrawing from metatomdine, they get hypertensive, tacicardic, they may have nausea, vomiting, and delirium. So that can complicate our whole withdrawal management, right? Quite a bit. >> It creates a lot of problems because you're dealing with withdrawal from multiple substances. And it turns out that metatomine withdrawal for some patients presents with a very severe clinical syndrome that often requires hospitalization that is challenging syndrome to get control of. And it's not something that we have a great understanding of which patients will have very severe metatomodine withdrawal and require that additional support and which patients won't. And so there's a lot of uncertainty and no great guidelines to use to to be able to help patients through that. >> Yes. So I was going to say something similar to Rachel around some of the uncertainty. I think right now one important message is we're not seeing metatomine in isolation. It's being seen in combination with opioids again typically fentinyl. And so you know I think one of the things that we're grappling with is sort of how to best manage the syndrome. But I think one of the things that is clear is that we need to adequately manage opioid withdrawal. And so the backbone of it is really making sure that you have adequate opioid agonists on board. Typically that's going to be a long acting ideally either methadone or buprenorphine as a kind of long acting agent. And then clonine is really effective for opioid withdrawal or other kind of any clonine or tisanadine alpha to aagnus even prior to metatomodine's presence. Those are really the two most evidence-based treatments for opioid withdrawal. We often add a number of different adjunctive medicines to treat sort of the withdrawal symptoms. And we also often, especially early on in the course, we'll add short acting opioids, especially for patients on methadone where we can't titrate up quickly enough to perhaps meet their kind of opioid the level of opioid dependence that they have. And so, and that's commonly what we're seeing in the hospital. So that is sort of the highlevel backbone of how we're typically managing opioid withdrawal. And then we sort of are more aggressive with some of the adjuncts for metatomine withdrawal and trying to target some of the specific physiology there. But as Rachel said that we're not totally this is very much expert opinion and evolving rapidly. Happy to talk about that more or have somebody in the group talk about it. But I think really the main high level thing that I am hoping to get across in this is that adequate management of opioid withdrawal will help the metatomine also help kind of disentangle there are a lot of overlapping symptoms between the two and so if you're not if the opioid withdrawal is not adequately managed some patients are thought to have really severe metatomy withdrawal who maybe it's not as bad and then sometimes they really do have very severe alpha 2 withdrawal that's clear even with adequate opioid agonist. So that's sort of the backbone of what we're trying to get across to people. >> Yeah. Can I actually just emphasize that a little bit? We kind of jumped right to treatment or like management of metatomodine withdrawal. Skipping over what I hope is one of the biggest takeaways from this, which is evidence-based opioid withdrawal treatment and practicing at Penn. It's a bit of a and maybe Philadelphia in general, a bit of a peculiar approach that has developed here that I just want to highlight for folks is pretty atypical nationwide and doesn't really follow best evidence-based practice to be quite honest that we're trying to like shift a little bit. Really emphasizing that starting with bupinorphine or methodone as the backbone of opioid withdrawal treatment that has the best evidence. They're long acting agents. They last a long time and they're also the cornerstone of long-term OUD treatment. people don't need to accept long-term treatment with them to get the best withdrawal management which involves one of those two agents and then using clonedine or if you have access to lofaxine which pen hospitals don't. So clonedine for opioid withdrawal using the non-opioid adjuncts scheduling them if you need to and then if you have any withdrawal left over after that sure using some acting opioids but really that is and there's a reason why that's kind of the backbone of treatment because it has very strong evidence for it and seems to work very well. So I think if we can start with that then with the withdrawal that's left over we can say okay is this metatomodine do we need to do something different do we need to address that differently and for providers practicing at pen you folks have really I think laid out uh good initial management strategies that can inform you know how to start you start with methadone you're adding oxycodone you're adding delotted IV and I think in many ways what we're trying to do is really get people under control comfortable very quickly So that then we can start having the conversations about well where do you want to go from here? What potential pathway do you want to take into the future with methadone with suboxone and some of the other options available? Right. >> Yeah. I think it's often this is a common thing. It's very hard when you're sick. You're physically unwell. You're in the hospital. You're there again probably for some other underlying problem. It's often hard to sort of make a decision in that very challenging moment. So getting people's withdrawal stabilized has a lot of benefit. It helps them to feel better. It also we think helps them to be more likely to be able to stay in the hospital and complete the treatment that they need. And then there is the advantage too that it helps to some degree to like maintain some tolerance to opioids if they do go back out and use. And then I think Ashisha's point I'll say one more time that is it's really important is if we can initiate whether or not they're interested in it long-term initiating medication for OUD like methodon buprenorphine does give people just the chance to try it and helps get them on the even if they don't end up leaving on it or planning to continue it. it gives them an option to try it and maybe feel better and get sort of a positive exposure to it. And then many people are like, "Oh, I am interested in this." And so there are a lot of benefits to to really using those as your backbone and to treating opioid withdrawal adequately just in general. Rachel, how does this differ? I see so many patients in the inpatient environment and so if you're managing a patient who's you know actively using fentanyl maybe has some metatomdine there to I assume the same principles apply in the outpatient setting you want to get control of their withdrawal symptoms as quickly as possible >> absolutely I think having a conversation about what options make the most sense for patient and the point that's worth making is that buper orphan is something that can be prescribed by primary care doctors in an office-based setting. You could pick it up at a pharmacy. You can get a week's worth. You can get a month's worth at a time. And so, it's very accessible. Whereas methadone, when you're getting that outside of a hospital, you have to go to a methodone clinic in OTP, a treatment program that's licensed to be able to provide the methadone. And usually that means going to a program every day to pick up that methadone for a period of time before maybe you're able to get some takehomes. And so for a lot of patients going every day to pick up their dose of medicine is very difficult. It's hard to be able to work and go pick up a dose of methadone every day. So for some patients right away they know that buprenorphine is going to be a better option for them. And so trying to sort through what is the best option for some patients. Methadone works better because at methadone clinics it's a very structured environment. You have to go every day. You have some behavioral health interventions that you need to participate in. And that can be really helpful for patients to help structure their recovery. And so really talking with patients about what makes the most sense for their recovery. And just because a patient chooses one option doesn't mean that they're stuck with that. we can always help them to transition to another option later on and we've done that successfully. So starting with that type of conversation and then if patients do decide to start beeper andorphine kind of having a conversation about what that's going to look like in the outpatient setting for them and how are we going to do that comfortably and for the vast majority of patients in the outpatient setting it's going to be a normal standard induction which usually looks like going starting with a very low test dose of buprenorphine usually 2 millig once patients get into moderate withdrawal. Usually I tell patients four symptoms of opioid withdrawal that they can kind of objectively have counted and then they can do that 2 milligram test dose of buprenorphine usually sublingual suboxone and then they take that test. You go through test dose. We go through the administration instructions and as and then after an hour as long as they're not feeling worse on that then they take an additional 2 millig and then usually we're doing well after that. they have four milligrams of sublingual bonorphine in their body and then they can do an additional four milligram dose after that and then we're really rocking and rolling and getting them up to a good dose after that. To get patients to be able to tolerate withdrawal in order to get them to the point where they can safely take sublingual buprenorphine, we treat them very aggressively with adgiant medications to help them with the symptoms. And so I usually will have a conversation with patients. You know, what are the symptoms that are most bothersome to you and then we decide what medications are going to be most helpful. Clonodine, as Maggie mentioned, is the cornerstone for treatment of opioid withdrawal. And so usually Clonodine is most helpful. We often will treat with hydroxazine which helps with anxiety, ibuprofen for muscle aches, something for nausea, just basically whatever the patient's symptoms are that are most bothersome. And that is is generally how we approach inductions. And then sometimes metatomodine gets in the way and that is difficult. But usually we can get patients on to medication for opioid use disorder and maybe they're not able to stop using completely. But at least if we have them on buprenorphine, then we have them protected against accidental overdose from opioids. And that is a huge win and gives us some time to then think about how to work on reducing their use further. >> So I want to drill down on a few of those elements. First of all, I just want to say upfront because I think it came out when Maggie and another colleague of ours, Jeff Jagger, had done a podcast on this that both these drugs reduce mortality, my understanding is by 50%. Which is remarkable really. I mean, when you think about any drug that would reduce mortality by 50%, it's that's a very profound effect. So, it's really a worth our time to get folks on these drugs. Let's just talk about methadone. I want to drill down on that a little bit in some of the more real practical stuff. As you've noted, Rachel, you know, patients do need to get it from a methodone treatment facility has the advantage of providing other support to patients, but they do need to go there every day, and that can be a challenge depending on availability of the facility and their location and so forth. But this is where kind of the bags and bundles discussion came in a little bit as I'm sort of guesstimating how much methadone do I need to give this person to make sure they're relatively comfortable in the first 24 hours getting some sense of the quantity of their use. Do you guys dose the initial methadone dose based on what you perceive to be their degree of use, the volume if you will? Ashish, >> not really. And I think it's very easy to get carried away with that and try to say okay there's fentinyl how much is the fentinyl and what's could the MME be that you need. I would actually recommend people not really try to think about that. In the same way we don't think about initial dose of dasipam for alcohol withdrawal based on if someone is using vodka versus beer versus a handle a day versus a six pack you know a 12-pack a day right the withdraw opio withdrawal severity is dependent on like a wide range of features. One of them is the amount of exposure over time, but there are so many other factors specific to individuals. Sex plays a role or sex at birth I should say, plays a role. So many other genetic factors play a role. About I don't know somewhere from 15 to 20% of people in other studies don't really have significant opioid withdrawal at all. So it's despite heavy exposure. So it's quite variable. So I would start if someone has fentanyl dependence and no other risk factors with 40 milligrams of methadone. And I think that's a good simple way to start. If you're concerned for some other risk factors, hypatic impairment, they're on oxygen, you can start with a lower dose and you can always give more. The key thing to remember about methadone is it takes three to four hours for peak effect after the oral dose. So sometimes I'll see trainees say, "Oh, we give methadone." And an hour or two later they're judging the response before that it had peaks effect. The other key thing to remember about methadone is it lasts a long time. The halflife is 24 hours. So half of that dose you gave Monday morning is still there Tuesday morning when you're giving that same dose again. So it dose stacks and that's the reason we're cautious with going higher on the first day is because we're nervous that if you keep giving that dose day two and day three, you're going to have dose stacking in day three, possibly right when the patient's about to leave the hospital and leave a monitored environment. So I would just start with 40 milligrams of methadone for someone who has fentanyl dependence and no other risk factors. and you can give more. This is where addiction expertise I think can be helpful. We have a lot more experience with this medication and with dosing it. We have addiction consultant services. We have expert pharmacists. We have other folks who can really weigh in to help guide things as well. >> And the dose that will help alleviate withdrawal like bad opioid withdrawal symptoms may not be the maintenance dose that eliminates craving. This is true buprenorphine too. at much lower doses than typical maintenance doses for many people should most of the with bad withdrawal symptoms should be managed. When we think about sort of getting someone a maintenance dose of a medication for OUD, we want to not only eliminate withdrawal, but we also want to try to minimize cravings and ideally additional use. It's sometimes not possible to get rid of all cravings or all use, especially craving is triggered by many different like environment and other cues. But just to say that like all the safety precautions that Ashish mentioned are really important with methadone in particular because of its particular pharmacology. But the dose that will get people out of bad withdrawal is we typically used to think of as more like 40. I think now we think of as like 60 maybe 80. But really these aren't insane high doses. And so typically you can get people there fairly quickly using these more cautious dosing approaches that are like in our health system guidance. We sometimes you'll see addiction medicine be more aggressive. This is a really evolving area in the literature like who and how fast can we where are the places we can go faster and should and in the hospital we go much faster than many outpatient settings which are more cautious typically. So, I think it's one of those things where like the more you know about methadone, the more maybe you get a little bit nervous about it because you know some of the bad things that can happen if you're overzealous with it, but also not a reasonably kind of a moderate dose of methodone will really manage most severe withdrawal and help people feel much more comfortable quickly. And the long acting nature of it is really helpful just in terms of leveling off people's symptoms and helping just to reduce the kind of ups and downs that we see with short acting opioids. So I really we often use that as a withdrawal minute. That's our sort of if we're not sure where we're going and the patient's kind of undifferiated. That's often the medication we'll offer first for very severe withdrawal in the hospital. But bupinorphine is also an option. >> Maggie, you answered one of my questions about methadone because I know that in the days before fentanyl when we were treating opiate use disorder that patients would end up in maybe 80 milligrams of methadone as a typical dose somewhere in that range. But then since the fentanyl epidemic, we're seeing much higher doses, maybe 180 over 200 that if patients are ultimately leveling out at and I was nervous about this. Oh my god, I got to get them up to that dose within 3 4 days or they're not going to be comfortable. But you made the point that 40, 50, something like that that patients can start feeling pretty comfortable and then that may not be their maintenance ultimate dose, but at least you can get them out of trouble with that dose. >> Yeah. And people do still end up on a pretty wide dose range. I don't know the data offhand, but like I've seen outpatients who are on doses that are actually not that different than some of the older the doses that I remember from like my residency training. And then we do have people on much higher doses. And I think there there is just a lot of individual variability in in all of this that you know I think can sometimes make it challenging to say oh this is where this person's going to land. But really we titrate dosing typically to just the patients sort of how they feel. And again, that kind of basic like we want to suppress withdrawal, we want to minimize craving, we want to minimize use or eliminate it depending on sort of where the patient is. And some people will be not at all over sedated on these very high doses. And some people may be completely fine and maybe even a little over sedated on doses of 100 or 120. So it's really individualized. And I think a goal of getting someone to a dose that's going to help at least keep them comfortable before they leave is a really important goal. But yeah, I don't think you need to aim to get people to doses of 120 or or 180 or 200 or whatever. >> These medications, both and methadone, they kind of have three functions. One is they prevent and treat opioid withdrawal if it occurs. They if they're working well, will prevent cravings and reduce cravings substantially, especially Q induced cravings. And people in the hospital aren't having the same cues that they have when they're in other environments. And then the third thing that they do if they're adequately dosed is blockage effects. So buprenorphine it's binds to such tight affinity that when you use other opioids the buprenorphine stays bound to those receptors and so patients don't get the reinforcing effects of using drugs when they're on of using other opioids when they're on buprenorphine. That was also and seems to still be true for a lot of people with methadone. Part of what you're probably seeing is because the potency of the other opioids being used is higher now than it used to be. I think a lot of methadone opioid treatment programs are trying to respond to that by saying, "Okay, if you're still feeling the effects of using the street opioids on 160 milligrams, well then maybe we need to go up. If you're still having cravings to use, maybe we need to go up to try to achieve the blockage effects." Each person is different, though. And there were people who were using heroin who didn't get blockage effects from methadone. There are people using fentanyl who don't get that. There's a lot of variability here. We want these hard and fast rules, but we always just have to respond to the patients in front of us. >> I want to make sure that we spend a few a little bit drilling down on buponorphine specifically because it's my favorite drug for opiate use disorder. I just see so many different advantages in it. And just to be clear, when we talk about buprenorphine, it's usually complexed with nlloxxone and is known as suboxone. So, it has the advantage over methadone that anybody with a DEA in the United States can prescribe it. I'm repeating some of the things Rachel said earlier, but just to set it up, my understanding is there are three forms of Suboxone. And I actually want to make a distinction with buponorphine. Maybe you guys can clarify if you're using straight buponorphine at times, but Maggie, you educated me in our first podcast that you have sort of a sublingual lifesaver like form that was cheap. And I think Rachel had noted that earlier as sort of a 4 mgram suboral dose versus a film which is also put under the tongue or in the mouth and then dissolves. And then of course we have subllicade which is a depo injectable form I believe given monthly of suboxone right and so that we have a drug that has three different ways to be given. It can be given and prescribed by anybody with a DEA license in the United States. So it gives flexibility to the patients as you had mentioned you know it's a very strong agonist. So it will displace all other opiates from the system and it's just one of its disadvantages because it with the nlloxxone effect it can precipitate withdrawal. It's my understanding when if you have other substances on board, but because it is so potent, it can be a harm reduction strategy because patients who potentially overdose with other agents are protected to some degree because the buprenorphine is so bound to the receptors. Ashish, is there more that you want to add to that or correct on that? >> Yeah, maybe a little bit of both. Um, I think that buprenorphine it's available in lots of different formulations. That's the active ingredient and I encourage all of us as physicians to talk about as buprenorphine rather than using one particular brand name because there's so many different versions and they all it's the same molecule. So as you mentioned sublingual film sublingual tablets long acting injectable of which there are two there's sublate or bxadi and then there's also the IV formulation there's also a patch formulation although the patch is only FDA approved for pain which is more relevant in the outpatient setting. I might even be forgetting some. So, lots of formulations. Suboxone is the brand name that's kind of most commonly known. I use the sublingual buprenorphine mono product fairly often as well. Some people like the taste more. It's really just patient preference. The key thing I just wanted to make sure I mention is it's buprenorphine itself that is responsible for displacing other opioids. It's actually not because it's more potent. It's only a partial agonist. So it's but it binds with tight affinity and those two things are what make it it's the two sides of the same coin right on one hand it can be disruptive to patients who have other opioids still present and it can move them from full agonism to partial that's precipitating withdrawal. The other side of that though is if the buprenorphine is present it binds at such affinity and it's only a partial agonist. So it protects against overdose if you have adequate plasma levels. So even if you use other opioids buprenorphine don't bound. The nlloxxone is there. It was added to prevent misuse of the product because there was concern when buprenorphine first came about that it would be crushed, injected, snorted and that nlloxxone is not actually bioavailable in the sublingual route which is how it's mostly used. >> So you're using straight buprenorphine without the nlloxxone component frequently. Is that fair to say? Not super frequently, but I would say occasionally. Sometimes patients just really don't like the taste of the films or >> And you're comfortable doing that? Yeah. So, it gives you >> Absolutely. And I'd encourage everyone to be. Yeah. Yeah. >> Good. There are some people, we're not sure exactly if it's the formulation or the nlloxxone, but there are some people who do seem to be sensitive to the nlloxxone formula nlloxxone in the buprenorphine and so they may present with like some headaches or a little bit of increased GI distress and that that's another reason another sort of patient preference why you might select or elect to do the buprenorphan mono product. The other time we see it historically is in pregnancy that's had been kind of recommended as the first line. the data that has come out in sort of the past like recent years shows that it's probably safe to do both and it's really not a big worry to have to switch people because the nlloxxone is not really bioavailable or substantially that way but just to say that that's the other kind of primary that's the reason a lot of people will also or sort of think of the mono product as being primarily for use in pregnancy but I think I agree with Ashish I don't it's not the first line for me but I do pivot to that in situations where there's patient preference or other reasons to do it. There's even different formulations of the biborphin and eloxone. And so Suboxone itself has like an orangey type chemical taste to it that some patients are very adverse to. There's also a product called Zubsolve that has a minty flavor to it that some patients prefer. And so really just working with the patients to figure out what is their preference and what feels like they'll be most likely to be able to adhere to. I think most of our practices >> Rachel when I was educated about this back it might have been I don't know years ago when I first learned when I first did the training for Suboxone you had to let people get into withdrawal so that you could then give the agent and they wouldn't experience withdrawal it would help them because the agonist effect would be more so than the antagonist of the lockxone but if you're using pure bupinorphine does that have to be an issue at all can you just sort of switch people over from and just add it into the mix and then they can stop using fentanyl or whatever their other opiate they're using. >> Yeah. Unfortunately, it's still an issue because if you have somebody who is using fentanyl and all of their mu receptors have a full agonist on it and then you introduce buprenorphine which is a partial agonist. But remember it has like a very high affinity for the receptor and you basically drop their mi receptors from the experience of being having a full agonist to a partial agonist. that experience is precipitated withdrawal and they will feel very terrible with that. And so it's important that you wait a period of time that they start to experience usually we say mild to moderate withdrawal so that some of those mu receptors open up and that then the buprenorphine comes in and attaches to the receptors provides the affinity and then actually helps them to feel better in that moment. So that really doesn't matter if it's a motto product or if it has Mlloxxone in it. >> That's really helpful. I just watched a Star Trek movie where the Enterprise got knocked out of warp speed. I don't know if you've seen that movie, but I as you were describing what happens when you drop down from fentanyl to buprenorphine. It's like being knocked out of warp speed. You know, I had to watch it on the plane back from Scotland. Actually, it's quite good by the way. Quite an entertaining film. One thing that is definitely also worth saying is there are now these great injectable options for buprenorphine that a lot of patients are actually coming in saying that they are interested in and there's options now which is great for patients to be able to choose what they want. There's Brixadi which has a weekly and a monthly version. Sublicade which is monthly and it really is helpful for patients who don't like having to take a film every day for a variety of reasons. It's just nice to be able to give patients other options for other modes of administration. It's also great for inatients when you've worked so hard to help patients get onto medication for opioid use disorder and to be able to give them an injection before they leave really helps when they're changing environments and maybe they're going back to somewhere where they're going to maybe have more triggers for returning to use. to have that medication on board to help them with some stability in that early recovery phase can be really great. >> I'm glad you said that, Rachel. That was my last question I wanted to ask about the injectables and how you're using them both for maintenance of abstinence but also as a harm reduction strategy in folks that do slip back into use. >> Yeah. So, we use them in both situations. I think they're wonderful for patients who want to just continue with buprenorphine, are continuing with abstinence and doing great. It's a wonderful treatment and they're also great for patients who continue to use and are not ready to stop using but really want that protection from accidental overdose. Also maybe want to be cutting back on how much they're using and are maybe still struggling with their use disorder but are working on it. And this is a harm reduction standpoint where they are trying to work on their recovery but maybe just aren't there yet. And it's great because they don't have to remember to take that film every day to protect themselves. They have that injection in them. And it's like this built-in safety feature. >> Well, before we leave this discussion, I just want to Are there any last take-home points you'd like to emphasize? >> Maybe I'll just summarize. I think we've emphasized this already, but I think just like really remembering the basics, like trying to get people on buprenorphine or methadone regardless of setting, both are highly effective, both reduce all cause and overdose mortality by 50% or more as you said, but it's worth noting these are some of the most powerful medications that we can offer in basically in terms of in any setting longitudinally. So using this opportunity whether it's the hospital or outpatient to really sort of plug patients in is important and that those are really the also the cornerstone of withdrawal management regardless of what adulterants are complicating the picture. So I'll start there. I bet others have things to add. Ashish before you wrap up I am going to also just say thinking about some of the initial conversation that we had. I think it's really great when talking to patients to really be curious about their substance use. Ask them questions. Show an interest in their recovery because patients will answer your questions. And if you take an interest in helping them to be more healthy in a non-judgmental fashion where you're not telling them that they have to stop, that you really care about helping them to use more safely and you think about what are the goals that are important for them, like what does health mean to them? They will really respond to that and you can really partner with them to help them achieve better health. And so I think coming at it from like a curious standpoint like what motivates them, what are their goals can be a really powerful tool for the provider. >> Well said. That's really I have had that experience when I take the time and people feel sort of the love if you will that they really do respond and it gets because we all want to be made to feel humanin these interactions. So just being authentic and everything makes a can make a big difference. Ashish, we're going to give you the last word. I don't know if I could say anything to top that. I just want to echo everything that Maggie and Rachel just said. We have really good evidence basis for opioid use disorder and opioid withdrawal care. We might need to adapt it a little bit for fentinel and for adulterance, but starting with what we know works and treating patients compassionately, patient centered ways, incorporating their goals and trying to match them and meet them where they're at. Well, the mortality numbers from opiate use disorder have probably haved in the last few years. I'm going to give all the credit to you guys and your colleagues nationwide. I don't know if that's, you know, that's actually the cause, but certainly your efforts in educating us as frontline providers about the strategies that are most effective to keep people alive seem to be making a difference. And so, I really appreciate you coming on and continuing that process of education. I want to thank everyone else for joining the audience for joining our discussion today. Please join us again next time.