Amanda: When I woke up, I didn't really remember large periods of time. I just remember just feeling very, very little in the hospital bed and lost. - On March 27, 2014, Amanda became very ill. - I do remember not feeling well. I was having frequent migraine-like headaches that would actually kind of radiate down my neck, giving me, you know, soreness of the neck. I wasn't thinking anything other than maybe stress. - She said, "I'm not crazy, but I can't sleep. I'm hearing things. Please help me." And then she'd wake up, and she always said she heard people talking to her through the lights, through the TV, that wasn't even on. - I don't remember any of that. - On the fifth day of not sleeping, the family doctor said that we need to bring her to the emergency room at our local hospital. They told me that my daughter was bipolar or schizophrenia. - I think they thought I was also on some type of drugs. I was acting like somebody on... - PCP or LSD or bath salts. That's how she was acting. - So they thought I was on drugs. - I said this is just not her and there's something really wrong with her. But, when the psych doctor at the local hospital evaluated her, he said we need to have her committed. They couldn't control her. She was trying to climb out windows. She kept saying she had to get to work. She didn't belong here. When you were in the psychiatric hospital and my husband and I did get to see her, we went in the room, and her reaction was, she didn't even know who we were. She did not know who we were. She came up to us and I said, "Amanda, it's Mom," and she just looked at me and she said, "Get me out of here, get me out of here, get me out of here." One of the tests that they did on Amanda in the hospital was a lumbar puncture. Within a week, we got a definite diagnosis that Amanda was suffering from NMDA receptor encephalitis. My husband and I looked at each other like we had no idea what that was. We went home. I Googled all the information I could find on the NMDA receptor encephalitis, which isn't a lot, but we did come across the site from Penn Neurosciences, and they are the place that discovered this illness and they're doing tons of research on it. And we decided that this is where Amanda needed to go. So, I came back to the hospital, our local hospital, and I said we need to get her transferred to Penn right away. Unfortunately, they didn't agree. They thought that they could treat her, and I said, you get me an ambulance, or I'm just putting her in the car. Upon being admitted to Penn Neurosciences, I met Dr. Eric Lancaster and the team of doctors and nurses that work alongside with him. - Amanda was previously very healthy. When she first arrived here at Penn, transferred from an outside hospital, she was comatose and unresponsive. - He said to me, the treatment is a combination of two chemotherapy drugs, Cytoxan and rituximab, and he said then after she gets all that treatment, when they start coming back, sometimes they don't know how to walk again, they don't know how to talk. They have to learn how to feed themselves. - I recall that she responded very rapidly, perhaps more rapidly than most patients to the infusion of these second-line agents, and woke up from her coma within several days of that being started. - I mean, it all felt like a dream, I guess, that with my Mom. Everything was a dream, and I really didn't remember much until like probably August. - I guess it was like three weeks after receiving her doses of rituximab that I went into the hospital, and the nurse greeted me as I walked through the ICU door, and she said, "Oh my God! Wait 'til you see your daughter. She's sitting up. She's starting to talk." And I just couldn't believe it. I just stood there. My mouth dropped, like what? And I went in the room and there she was, sitting in the chair and a smile on her face. I mean, she gave me a big hug and... you don't remember, do you? And she just said to me, "Where am I? What happened?" It was just such a joy because they told me she would be fine, and I got to see that she would be fine. Dr. Lancaster: I remember meeting her in her followup clinic visits, and I sort of saw the life breathe back into her over the next few months as she followed up with me in clinic. - Finally, I could say, it's been a year, I feel like I'm... I mean, I'm back to myself. It's been a long road. I thank Dr. Lancaster, Dr. Dalmau. It was really exciting meeting him, and he just told me, just with a big smile and a hug, "You just live your life first. Just live your life."