- Anybody in your family with dizziness or balance problems? - Balance disorders involve many centers of the body. Ears, eyes, joints, brain, or the outputs through the spine. So you can have dizziness or a balance disorder with a defect anywhere along that pathway. It's important that the source of the problem be identified so that appropriate treatments can be taken. - At Penn Medicine's Dizziness and Balance Center, we see patients that have a myriad of symptoms that can range from true spinning vertigo, lightheadedness and a faint feeling, unsteadiness, risk for falls, and actual frequent falls. It is very common for patients to come to the Dizziness and Balance Center here at Penn and say, "Why am I having this testing? "I've already been seen at a balance center, "I've already had this testing." And then, shortly into the diagnostic studies, they'll admit, "I have never had these tests before." We have the most comprehensive diagnostic equipment which allows us to have a better chance of coming up with both diagnosis as well as a path to treatment. Video nystagmography, rotational chair studies, video head impulse testing, computerized dynamic posturography. In our region, we are the only center that has all of these diagnostic studies. And because we have this state-of-the-art equipment, and because we have providers with years and years of experience, we are able to get answers much better than a lot of places that call themselves balance centers but really are doing a cursory look at the vestibular system, not a very thorough look, which is what we're able to do here at Penn. When patients walk back for the first time, their immediate question is whether they're going to feel dizzy with this testing. And it's very rare that I don't have a patient that can get through the entire battery. - Most of the dizziness and motions that may be provoked during the testing are temporary. Most patients walk out of our appointments feeling just fine and they're able to drive themselves home. - Many treatments related to dizziness and balance actually come from our physical therapy partners that are trained in vestibular rehab. Some treatments are medical treatments that our physician colleagues can provide to these patients. We are fortunate enough to have a multidisciplinary team that's working on each individual patient that comes through the center. We rely on the expertise of not only audiologists and neuro-otologists but also neurologists, neuro-ophthalmologists, physical therapists, and we meet regularly to discuss treatment options, to discuss our specific patients, so that we're sure that we are providing each patient with an individualized assessment as well as a path to recovery. (gentle music)