 In the neonatal intensive care unit, we're exposed to a lot of noise and sounds and it was just a really overwhelming environment. Alarms are blaring all day long. We really thought that this is a problem that we can solve. The Sonara Beanie provides auditory protection and parental connection for patients that are born in the neonatal intensive care unit. Our Beanie blocks out all those high frequency noises and alarms that are prevalent in the hospital and allow for low frequency noise noises such as human voice to pass through. We have a mobile app that allows parents to record songs, stories, their voice and heartbeat to send to their infant when they can't physically be by the bedside in the hospital. Gabby and I met actually our freshman year of college at Penn. This really started as our senior capstone project. We started interviewing doctors to learn about what was important in the Beanie and how it would work. And we were receiving really incredible feedback. We saw a need for our Beanie in these units. We know that this is a very hard position for parents to be in. So we just we really want to get to the bottom of that emotion so that we can we can create a channel for them to put all that love and joy and excitement for their baby. I'm really happy with this because I thought I'm not going to be there physically, but he's going to hear the sound of my voice instead of being like listening to beeping all the time. I speak Portuguese because I'm Brazilian. Of course, I was talking to him in Portuguese. So I'm always ready to record for my baby. So I'm going to say, Hey John. Hey, filho. Como você está hoje, meu amor? Mamãe queria dizer que você é tão amado, tão querido. Deus te fez tão perfeito, filho. Você está cada dia mais forte se preparando para ir para casa, filho. Eu quero ver fotos de todos os bebés usando essa roupa porque é realmente bonito. O nursing staff are really excited for this porque nós reconhecemos os desafios de desenvolvimento que nossos pacientes face e os desafios que isso pode proporcionar para que eles possam ter uma boa, devolvente-suportiva ambiente, mas também para poder fazer essas conexões com seus pais. E mesurerpetto-annannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannannann and we want to be able to help those babies here as well.