- Hi. Dr. Samir Mehta here from Penn Orthopedics. Like many of you out there, I love to ride my bike, but as an orthopedic surgeon, I also see what happens on the other side of things when injuries happen as a result of bike riding. I've got a few tips for you to keep you safe while you're riding your bike through the city. [♪♪♪] When you get on your bike, make sure you're wearing the proper clothing. That means no baggy pants, no sandals. If you're going to wear a backpack, make sure the straps aren't hanging down. And the reason that's important is, you don't want any of that stuff catching in the chain or the wheel which will then cause a fall and a fracture. If you are going to be riding your bike around cars, just be aware. They may not even realize that you're there. A great example is hitting a door. It's when you're riding your bike and someone throws their door open and doesn't even realize you're coming up from behind. You hit their door, you go flying off your bike and you break your clavicle. Give yourself room so that if somebody is going to throw their door open, it's not going to get in your way of what you're trying to do. One of the other things that many of us see happening in the city all the time is bicyclists weaving through traffic. It's convenient, it's easy, but it's not safe to do. If you get hit, broken femur, broken tibia, broken pelvis. The kind of injuries that are sustained by people who weave through traffic are tremendous. I know it sounds really basic, but it's really important to protect yourself by wearing your helmet and staying in the bike lane. But also, make sure that everybody around you sees you. Put reflectors on your bike. Make sure you wear bright clothing. Think about when you're riding your bike. If it is at night, put that light on your bike so that oncoming cars and cars behind you can see you. Basic things, I know, but you've got to do it. To learn more about Penn's Level 1 Trauma Center, visit our website. And stay safe out there.