- January 24th, I get the call and I'm sitting on my couch by myself and I'm talking to the doctor 'cause it was less than 24 hours later, so I didn't think anything of it. And I was like, "Hey Doc! What's up? It was a great time yesterday," 'cause it was. I had a great time. I really did. I learnt a lot. And he's like, "Kid, I have to stop you." And I'm like, "What is it?" "You have cancer." I didn't really know what to think or how to proceed. You hang up that phone and you're kind of like, "How, how do I tell my parents?" - I had to call my husband first because, he's that calming factor. He's always been that calming factor. And when my husband came home, he immediately said, "We're gonna get through this." - But it was hard for them. It was hard for my kids, my husband, my mom. I had great support; an army behind me. - After I processed that I had cancer, I got into a place where I said I would do whatever it takes to beat this disease. Chemo, radiation, surgeries; I had to do whatever it took to make sure I reached my end result which was being a survivor. - The first thing you need to do is breathe, because it stops. You stop breathing for a moment. Once you get past that point, you have to be educated. - I didn't know. I'm like, "What, what do I wear on my top? What, how do I pin my drains?" Like how do you? Like my mastectomy pillow is still my best friend; still. And I didn't even know it existed. It came off of Etsy. - Getting reconstruction after surgery was never really a decision I had to think about. It was like, you know, you're taking my breasts off and they're going to give me new ones. - Reconstruction wasn't an easy process. And so, I, after having my left breast removed, I opted to have my right breast removed. This one tried to kill me so let's take this one off. - The idea of having your areolas and nipples removed and basically looking like an emoji, I didn't think I was going to be able to look in the mirror at myself and I was honestly scared of that, but, I made myself. - You know, even in the simplest thing, like the nipple reconstruction, the tattooing, just makes you feel like, okay; like you know, I'm a woman again. I have, I look like everybody else. I feel better, and that's what it's all about; I mean, how you feel when you look at yourself in the mirror. - I couldn't imagine having the double mastectomy and the reconstruction with any other hospital or with any other doctors because I was more than a patient. They made me feel like family. And when someone is family, you take care of them, and you love them, and are there to support them and I felt supported. - My future pretty much looks like, I'm just going to do whatever makes me happy. I don't know if I'm going to need radiation or chemo very soon. At some point I will, but I don't know when. So, I'm just kind of living every day to the fullest and I'm just spending time with the people that I love and that's how I'm choosing to continue. - Did I have to go through a lot? Mhmm. Did I have to go through a lot of physicalness? I did, but I enjoy my life to the fullest. I love my life now. Not that I didn't before, but I appreciate it and understand it much better after this long journey. - This experience has changed me into a person who appreciates life. It helps me appreciate the little things that shape you into the person that you will eventually become. You know it allows my children to see me take people from a point of sadness to a point of hope. [♪♪♪]