- Cancer was almost, (sigh) if you will, a gift. It was. I look at life differently. I view my life and my impact on my life differently, and so cancer changed everything in regards to my life that exists today. After I processed that I had cancer, I got into a place where I said I could do whatever it takes to beat this disease. So everything in between spoke to I had to beat this disease. Chemo, radiation, surgeries. I had to do whatever it took to make sure I reached my end result, which was being a survivor. After having my left breast removed, I opted to have my right breast removed. This one tried to kill me, so let's take this one off. So I'm thinking that I'm gonna have chemo, I'm gonna have my breast taken off, wham, bam, boom. I'm getting new breasts, and I'm gonna be okay. When I was told that I have to have my breast taken off, and then have radiation, and then wait until that healed, and that was a nine or 10 month process, that was a lot for me to digest. I think I had five or six surgeries altogether to count, and so it wasn't an easy process for me at all. I was just really in denial that this was happening to me. Not the cancer, believe it or not, but the side effects of cancer. That I'm gonna lose all of my hair. I can handle being sick, but to look sick, that's a whole nother story because for a while, believe it or not, I could not look in a mirror. I could not-- when I became bald, I couldn't look in the mirror. I couldn't even show my daughter how I looked for at least two or three months. When I had surgery, I couldn't look in the mirror. When I wore that prosthetic that I probably tossed out the window that drove me crazy, and so I'm just glad to be in the space that I am right now. And so I really trusted the doctors at Penn, and my oncologist that I went to. They treated me with the utmost respect, and whatever I asked, they explained it thoroughly, and I appreciate how I was taken care of. My whole process of my journey, was not easy. What came out of it for me is I found a passion, I enjoy my life to the fullest, I love my life now, not that I didn't before, but I appreciate it and understand it much better after this long journey. (slow piano music)