Welcome to the podcast series from the specialists at Penn Medicine. I'm Melanie Cole and joining me today is Dr. Chase Brown. He's the surgical director in coronary revascularization at Penn Presbyterian Medical Center and he's an assistant professor of surgery at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. He's here to discuss his personalized approach to coronary artery bypass grafting or cabbage. Dr. Brown. Thank you so much for joining us today. We're discussing a relatively new procedure called robotic minimally invasive direct coronary artery bypass or RA midcap for single vessel coronary artery revascularization. And we're also discussing its application in a hybrid procedure for multivessel disease. But before we get into these surgeries, I'd like to remind our referring audience that Dr. Brown's program can be reached directly at 2156629595. Dr. Brown, can you provide a little background on the anatomy of coronary artery disease and the way it's been treated? Give us a little history. Thank you. I'm happy to be here and uh I'm excited to discuss this topic with you. So, historically coronary artery disease has been treated with medications and with stances and with open surgery. Patients with triple vessel disease who have anga and eskeeia have gone on to undergo cabbage procedures or coronary artery bypass procedures. If it's limited just to the LD or the left anterior descending artery oftent times these patients will have uh a stent placed by their interventional cardiologist especially if it's proximal disease. Also offered would be coronary artery vascularization with open sternottomy with a lema or the left internal memorary artery anastimos past the blockage to the led. But recently over the last 10 years there's been this evolution of using robotic technology small incisions to provide minimally invasive approaches to patients with coronary artery disease. And what we can do now is use the Da Vinci robot and we use three small incisions in the chest wall. One for the left hand, one for the right hand, one for our camber port. And using the Da Vinci, we can harvest the left internal memory artery off the chest wall. We then remove the Da Vinci robot and we make a small left thoracictomy. And then through that small incision while the heart is still beating we complete an off pump off bypass uh anastmosis of the left internal memorary artery to the LED. And this approach is great because this is a very small incision. Patients do very well from this approach. They can go home in 2 to 4 days and they're usually back at work anywhere from 2 to 3 weeks unlike 2 to 3 months with open sternotomy approaches. Well, thank you Dr. Brown. So what differentiates RA midcab from traditional coronary artery bypass grafting or cabbage surgery? Speak a little bit about the advantages from both the surgeon's point of view and the patients. Yeah. So when patients come in, they often hear about a sternottomy and how much pain this is going to cause and how long the recovery is. And we often tell patients with a traditional stronottomy, which is an incision down the front of the chest to open the the breast bone, patients are going to have 2 to 3 months of healing process. And even research suggests that even at 2 months, the sternum is not 100% healed completely. So patients often ask, is there any sort of minimally invasive option? And often times they hear about stances and what the cardiologist can provide with stenting. But the research that we have would suggest that patients that are young that can avoid aronottomy, we can do a lima to led to bypass a proximal led lesion and avoid this open incision. And this is very good for young patients, patients that are active and don't need need or want or can take two to three months off of work. We can provide a small incision in the left chest and this will allow them for much quicker recovery. I often tell patients after 2 weeks their pain is much better and then at that point they can go back to regular activities without really any restrictions. The only restrictions they have is usually some soreness that will keep them from being able to lift you know a box over their head. But unlike a stronottomy, which we would say you cannot lift anything more than 10 to 20 pounds for 2 to 3 months, with this small, minimally invasive incision to treat coronary disease, we're actually able to get them back to work or without any restrictions after 2 weeks. Dr. Brown, you mentioned younger patients. Expand on patient selection for us. What's the ideal patient for RA midcap surgery? because many of these surgeries are now performed for particular patient populations which is ever expanding in this exciting time in your field. So I think there are a couple different groups of patients where this procedure works great for. The first is a young 40 to 60 year old patient. These patients often come into the office. They're very active. They're running and they say you know I used to run a 9-minute mile now I'm running an 11-minute mile. And they have single vessel disease. So to do a sternottomy on this patient is a lot because the restrictions they would have going forward would be pretty severe. They wouldn't be able to lift heavy weights. They wouldn't be able to run for over a month or so. So that's a great patient to offer this minimally invasive robotic approach where we can do a robotic harvest of the left internal memory artery a small left thoracictomy that is a couple inches in length. After we anastimos that without the heart stopped the patient will have the breathing tube taken out in the operating room. They'll stay one night in the ICU and then go home on posttop day two or day three. And if you're young, this is a better approach than getting a stent. If you get a stent in your 40s, 50s for proximal LED disease, that will help momentarily, but especially if you have diabetes, we know there are issues with instant reinosis and complications of stances for long periods of time for patients who have a lot of longevity left. So this approach is very good for a young patient. The other group of patients where this works well is patients that are older that have a lot of coorbidities where doing a strronottomy would be less than ideal and the recovery time with a stronottomy would be difficult for them. So this would include patients with obesity, patients with severe COPD, patients with lots of coorbidities where the recovery would be difficult. So in these patients we can do a limit to LED for proximal LED disease or this gets to another part of the conversation which we'll talk about which will be the hybrid aspect where I can do the limit to LED robotically and then our interventional cardiologists can stent the to marginal or something in the circumlex or something in the right coronary artery and this avoids a stronottomy in these sicker patients who would benefit from a limited LED but would not do good with a traditional surgical approach which would a traditional stronomy and multiple bypass graphs. Dr. Brown, what's the role of multiddisciplinary heart team in procedure planning for cabbage and these other surgeries and even after the fact? Tell us a little bit about your team and the importance of this multid-disciplinary approach. We have a heart team for all patients that undergo coronary bypass grafting and it usually starts with the patient's cardiologist. They usually will talk to the patient and say listen you have disease in your coronary arteries that's limiting your life in terms of anga or you have eskeeia which will decrease your longevity and your survival and then at that point they usually get sent to a interventional cardiologist who will do a left heart caization and we'll discover where these flow limiting lesions are and what vessel is the culprit. Once we have the anatomy, the interventional cardiologist usually referred them to me, the surgeon, and we would discuss with the interventional cardiologist what a good plan is. And on these patients that are younger or even the patients that are sicker, we have to come up with a plan to see what is best for each individual patient. And for the robotic approach, it will either be should we stent this patient or should this patient undergo a lema to LED robotically. So that would be one of the big conversations we would have as a heart team. And oftent times if the patient is young and a candidate for the robotic approach, that's the route we prefer to take because the limit LED will provide great blood flow to the left interior descending artery for their lifetime with a very low risk of disease in the lemagraft. Dr. Brown, I'd like you to tell us a little bit about the hybrid procedure you're performing, which combines RA Midcab with perccutaneous coronary intervention and its advantages. I'd like you to speak about that and any technical considerations you'd like other providers to know about since this is so unique. So for this approach in patients who would go down the hybrid route this would be a lima led robotically and then one of the other vessels would be stented and sometimes you could stent two vessels if needed. It all depends on the patient the patient's preferences and the patient's coorbidities. What we don't want to do though is convert a procedure which traditionally is patients with triple vessel disease who would benefit from open sternotomy and multiple bypass grafts. So at least three or more bypass graphs into just a Lima LED and multiple stances. I do still think there's a role for traditional surgery, but I do think that this new technology that allows us to provide coronary artery revascularization surgically in in a minimally invasive approach to patients who would not be candidates for open surgery. It's excellent. So the big thing we need to decide when discussing what route this patient should go in terms of stenting surgery or hybrid approach would be timing. So the issue with stances is they would need to be put on an antiplatlet agent such as Plavix or Balenta and taking that patient to the operating room and doing the minimally invasive approach and robotic approach there would be an increased bleeding risk. So it's a conversation we need to have. Is there a culprit lesion that needs to be stented first or can I do the lema lesion robotically and then send them back to the interventional cardiologist who will then put them on Plavix after my procedure? Those are the main conversations that we need to have. But this approach will allow us to revascularize patients who are not candidates for open strenottomy with the lemid led and then the interventional cardiologist will go ahead and stent the other lesions. And this patient who traditionally would have lots of limitations and many months in recovery can usually go home a lot quicker and often times will not need to go to acute rehab. This is a fascinating topic. So finally, please tell us a little bit about the robotic program at Penn Cardiovascular Surgery. What would you like referring providers to know about the program and how can interested providers reach you for a referral? Our program has existed probably over the last 5 years, but since I was hired back in July of 2023, this has been my main focus. So, I've really tried to expand our program to not only different types of patients, but increase our hybrid program and also reach out to patients who would often get stented and get those referrals as well. So, the best way for patients or for providers to contact us would be to reach out to my office directly. My office number is 2156629595 and I would be happy to see those patients and have a conversation with you and our interventional cardiology team to determine the right approach for each individual. Thank you Dr. Brown so much for joining us and sharing your expertise on this topic. That concludes this episode from the specialists at Pen Medicine. I'm Melanie Cole. Thanks so much for joining us today.