Welcome everyone to the Penn Primary Care podcast. I'm your host Dr. Kendall Williams. So, we talk about things on this podcast that confuse everyone as primary care physicians. And I usually choose things that confuse me as good topics. So, I found myself confused about a lot of things related to calcium and vitamin D. And I thought I'd ask two experts on to talk to us about it. You have heard these voices before. They were on with one of our earliest podcasts on diabetes. So I invited them back. They are the co-directors of the endocrinology medical student course. So they're very comfortable teaching a lot of these concepts. So I've invited back Dr. Carrie Burns who is the professor of endocrinology at Penn. She is the director of the diabetes and pregnancy center. Carrie, thanks for coming again. Thanks for having me Kendall. And Dr. Dr. Christina Mitchell is an associate professor of clinical medicine in the division of endocrinology and as I mentioned one of the great teachers of endocrinology at Penn with Kerry. They teach medical students and residents and fellows and so they're frequently teaching about these issues and today we're going to do sort of a a popery of calcium problems. We're going to talk about vitamin D. We're going to talk about hyperarathyroidism and some hypercalcemia generally. And then I think that there was just some residual questions on osteoporosis particularly in the use of infusion therapies that I thought would be helpful to review with them. So that's what we're going to cover today. So Christina, let's start with you. You teach the med students. Let's talk about calcium metabolism generally. Talk about the role of calcium, where it's stored, vitamin D and PTH because those are the big three that we're going to be covering today. Sure. In fact, this is the lecture that I give to the med students. The first lecture I give is the calcium metabolism and parathyroid lecture. So it's that's thank you for that question and for the introduction. So calcium metabolism we think about things in terms of the normal physiology and then the pathophysiology and suffice it to say that parathyroid hormone and vitamin D which is also a hormone work in concert to maintain a normal blood calcium effectively. Vitamin D helps to absorb calcium from the gastrointestinal tract. Although in its hormonal role, it's also a co-actor for bone mineralization and plays a major role in the bone remodeling unit. So as the as our skeleton is undergoing normal remodeling, we have these bony pits where we're breaking down kind of demineralized bone. The osteoclast is doing that. And then there is new bone mineralization by the osteoblast. Vitamin D plays a key role in that remodeling step with the bone remmineralization. But in any case, in normal physiology, our calcium levels are kind of always ebbing and flowing. And in order to maintain homeostasis, vitamin D and parathyroid hormone will work together. PTH produced by one of the four parathyroid glands that most of us have. Their location is their name, parathyroid, parah meaning nearer beside the thyroid gland. And effectively they will parathyroid hormone will take calcium from the greatest depot of the body the bone in order to maintain a normal blood calcium level. The way I like to describe it to students in the course is that if one or more than one of those parathyroid glands goes rogue so to speak and develops an adenoma or or alternatively if there's multiple gland hyperplasia there will be excess production of parathyroid hormone and then all of the normal physiologic actions are magnified. So effectively you'll have excess loss of calcium from the bones and in that way hyperarathyroidism is a risk factor for osteoporosis. The parathyroid hormone also in its normal role will stimulate the hydroxilation of vitamin D in the kidney so that you'll have the active form of vitamin D and so that will happen then in excess as well. And so ultimately you have a couple different mechanisms through which you can develop hypercalcemia as a result of excess parathyroid hormone production by the glands. So you're taking it out of bone when parathyroid hormone is high and you're also stimulating vitamin D and so it's doing its job which is partly to increase absorption from the gut. Right? So both of those mechanisms are leading to a higher calcium. And the downside if you let that happen and keep going over time is not only the effect on what it means if your serum calcium levels are high but also the depletion of bone reserves and osteoporosis. Right? So let's talk about vitamin D because vitamin D is a confusing thing. It's partly the names. I think there are two native forms of vitamin D. Vitamin D2 is agoaliferol. Vitamin D3 is choleiciferol. Vitamin D3 is made from the sun but from the sun interacting with our skin. It's made internally. We do not as I understand it make vitamin D2 in the body but by do make vitamin D3. Vitamin D3 can also be obtained from animal sources presumably animals that have themselves made it from the sun and then we eat. So you have vitamin D2 and vitamin D3. And vitamin D2 from plant foods, right? Mushrooms and some other places. And so there's no real meaningful difference however in the body between vitamin D2 and vitamin D3. They are both sort of pro hormones if you will for the eventual hydroxilation process that will lead to the dihydroxy vitamin D that will eventually be formed after hydroxilation in the liver and the kidney. Right. Right. I think that's a great summary. Yeah, it is. Okay. So, we have aragergoiferol, choleiciferol, vitamin D2, vitamin D3. So, this leads to a question of how much how do we get vitamin D deficient? It's either from decreased intake from the gut or from lack of access to the sun or both. Right. Agreed. Right. And vitamin D deficiency is very common. Correct. Most of the vitamin D that we have that is available is from the sun. It's difficult to obtain enough from the diet. As you know, milk is frequently supplemented with D most of the time. I think every homogenized milk product has vitamin D. And other than what you mentioned, Kendall, mushrooms, the fatty fishes have probably the highest amount of dietary vitamin D. So that is why vitamin D deficiency is so common especially in this part of the world in the latitudes that are further from the equator. The other items that cause vitamin D deficiency would be using sunscreen being institutionalized being in an inner city. The more pigment you have in your skin, the less efficient you are at the hydroxilation of D in your skin. Although there is some confusion about how we measure vitamin D in different populations. So we may not be always measuring vitamin D correctly as there's different vitamin D carrier proteins in different populations. So it's unclear for always measuring vitamin D correctly. Obesity also seems to be a risk factor for low vitamin D. I remember reading that the amount of sun you need in order to produce enough vitamin D is 15 minutes of sun a day on your elbow I think forearms. So it's it's interesting that's a question that comes up a lot in the student course actually and what has been defined is that a fullbody minimal athema dose. So meaning that head to toes the body completely exposed that a one full body minimal ariththemma dose would result in the release of 10,000 to 20,000 international units of vitamin D into circulation and by minimal arythemma dose that's about probably about 15 minutes for most of us where unprotected exposure to the sun is causing some redness to develop of the skin some inflam inflammation and releases about 10,000 to 20,000 units of vitamin D into circulation. Reminds me of the rule of nines when you were learning about burns. You try to divide the body up into different percentages. So if you're getting that much vitamin D, most of us aren't going out and standing naked in the sun every day. Thankfully, my neighbors will thank me for not doing that, but you're getting a percentage of that if you're exposing. So vitamin D deficiency is mostly sun deficiency is your point, right? Yes. So vitamin D is then comes into the body through those mechanisms. It's then as we noted hydroxilated in the liver. It's then known as calcadiol and that is the major storage form which is what we measure when we measure vitamin D levels. Right? Even that's not the active hormone, right? But that's what we measure 25 hydroxy vitamin D. Correct. And then I think that's really clinically relevant. I think that point's really clinically relevant because I will say that sometimes patients will come to the office with a concern about vitamin D deficiency or even vitamin D toxicity, but what has been measured leading to that visit is actually 125 dihydroxy vitamin D. And these are usually referrals from outside the health system. I will say that it's become more clear in our electronic medical record what we should be measuring for to assess vitamin D stores as far as measuring 25 hydroxy versus 125 dihydroxy. But it can be that can be confusing since both of those lab orders are available. But we do the 25 hydroxy is what we use to assess vitamin D deficiency, insufficiency, sufficiency. Whereas the 125 dihydroxy D we reserve for evaluation of folks with hypercalcemia. And then when we're supplementing vitamin D, we're giving vitamin D2 or D3 as we mentioned the argaliferol chiciferol. And it doesn't really matter which you give if you're supplementing it. Is that right? I think vitamin D3 is thought to be more bioavailable. Erggoalciferol was a little more popular I would say 5 to 10 years ago and was used more as a quote unquote loading dose for patients whose vitamin D levels were found to be quite low maybe in the 10 to 20 nanogs per deciliter range and we would dose with 50,000 international units of erggo calciferol weekly for about 3 months and then go revert to a maintenance dose. I find that we're not doing that as frequently. I think it could be a slippery slope because sometimes that prescription gets renewed and patients remain on that 50,000 international unit dose per week and can be at risk for vitamin D toxicity which could lead to hypercalcemia for one thing. So I think that's fallen mostly out of favor and I think the availability of D3 in the marketplace for patients to purchase is so much more available than it was 10 to 15 years ago. So mostly you'll see D3 available in most supermarkets andarmacies for patients and that's typically what we recommend are maintenance doses of D3. And Carrie this gets to the issue of vitamin D deficiency and how we treat it and so forth. if we test for it and we want to supplement I mean one thing we could tell people is to get more sun exposure as you had noted the other thing we'd want to do is to then supplement it with vitamin D3 and now how much are you telling them to get and take right so I think the concept of vitamin D sufficiency is becoming more popular I think with recent data and the literature vitamin D is not the panacea that has been hoped for and the idea of the goal being sufficiency. Therefore, for most 800 to 1,000 international units daily should be enough. I would say the high end of the RDA, I believe, is 5,000. So, taking 5,000 per day should not result in toxicity. But once you may go above that dose, which is easy to do with over- the-counter products, you may be at risk for vitamin D toxicity since it's a fats soluble vitamin. So I think for most, I would say 800 to 1,000 international units daily. And other than osteoporosis, are there other situations in which you are routinely testing for vitamin D? I personally have not. Yeah, it's not recommended per se. I wanted to highlight that. Yeah. Right. Absolutely. And this is a test that should be done at the most yearly in a patient that has osteoporosis. The 25 hydroxy concentrations in the liver do not change rapidly. Therefore, a dose increase in a supplement should not be tested again in a few months unless there's primary hyperarathyroidism going on perhaps. But in someone who has osteoporosis and you're checking to see if someone is vitamin D sufficient, for example, for one of the treatment options, yearly is definitely enough to test and won't be paid for, lack of a better way to say it, by most insurers, including Medicare. If it is measured more than once per day, I think it's reached a target status for insurance companies because that's a costly test that's being overordered. I'll have patients come in to me not infrequently to ask me to check their vitamin D because it had been low in the past and they want me to check it. It happens I don't know a couple times a month. So I might check it in that circumstance but I really shouldn't be should I if there's a history of deficiency I think it's okay to check in occasionally. I don't think that's egregious. And I wanted to mention and we may get into this in a bit but regarding the osteoporosis reason to check it as for example a secondary risk factor. Vitamin D deficiency as a secondary risk factor and again we may get into this but as part of just kind of the evaluation for other secondary risk factors for osteoporosis. One of those risks is excess loss of calcium in the urine hypercalceura. And in fact, we must know the patient's vitamin D status before we have them do that ownerous 24-hour urine collection because a low vitamin D, I mean actually probably anything less than 25 nanogs per deciliter is associated with a sporiously low urine calcium. So that you kind of can't rely on that urine calcium result unless you're pretty sure that their vitamin D is okay. Now, if it was checked six months ago, I don't necessarily need to recheck it, but the idea that you need a something that's probably been done at least within the year to make sure that you're not going to have a spuriously low urine calcium. So, before we leave vitamin D, is there anything more to be said about it from your perspective? Things you see in practice that maybe primary care physicians should know more about? I'm going to mention I'm going to mention the liver here because I feel at Penn we're such a big transplant center and honestly just the rise of cerosis secondary to fatty liver disease. Obviously we see a lot of patients with incidental discovery of hypatic steattosis and fatty liver disease and unfortunately sometimes that progresses to fibrosis and cerosis but liver disease becomes another risk for very low vitamin D levels and certainly if the liver's synthetic function is impaired you're not going to have that hydroxilation that 25 hydroxilation of the vitamin D but there may also be an impairment of absorption too conferred by liver liver disease. So that that's a population too that I find is very deficient in vitamin D and can require very high doses of vitamin D supplementation. And actually as dare I say that I will sometimes use erggoaliferol in those patients just by virtue of being able to get it in that 50,000 unit dose in order to kind of overcome the issues with absorption for some of those liver patients. I think another population that we're seeing more of is the transplant population and due to the imunosuppressants they are at very high risk for skin cancer and or read the riot act in regards to prevention of skin cancers and wearing sunscreen and avoiding the sun. So that might be a group that you may want to screen for low vitamin D besides your institutionalized inner city patients. I suppose it also should be said if somebody has marketkedly low vitamin D levels than being a fats soluble vitamin we should be considering other malabsorption syndromes like celiac disease or other things. So I don't know if you have any comment on that but I'm concerned typically if someone has of either B12 deficiency and vitamin D deficiency that there may be either celiac disease or IBD or some other sort of malabsorption in the small bowel perhaps. Well that was great. I mean vitamin D can be very confusing and all the different names and how different forms and so forth and how you supplement it. So that was very helpful. So let's talk about high calcium levels. We all had this board question that an outpatient and we had to learn it for the board's the answer to the question what are the most common causes of hypercalcemia and we all learned that in outpatient settings primary hyperarathyroidism is the most common cause of hypercalcemia and in the hospital it's metastatic cancer usually due to breast and so forth but let's talk about just you get a calcium level back it's high the patient's feeling fine but it's maybe 11.4 four. And Christina, what do you do with that information if it comes to you? What do you start to test? I'm lucky that in so far as typically someone isn't coming to me until they've already had the PTH done. So, in some ways that heavy lifting has already been done by the time they're arriving at an endocrinology visit. But definitely that first decision point or that tree, is it PTH or nonPTH mediated? And when it's PTH mediated, which are typically the patients we're seeing, then the next question is a symptomatic versus asymptomatic. And these are fairly defined terms in so far as we consider symptomatic someone who has had a fragility fracture or someone who is a kidney stone former in the past or in the present or maybe even has asymptomatic stones in the cortex of the kidney. So these would define the symptomatic patient. The asymptomatic patient i.e. no recent fragility fractures or stones is someone that may also meet criteria for surgical intervention. Certainly the symptomatic patient has bought themselves consideration for surgery for parathyroidctomy but there are a number of criteria for the asymptomatic patient as well. So it's not the calcium level per se or even the PTH level per se that lead you as an endocrinologist to then refer to surgery. Well, in the asymptomatic population, I suppose it is the PTH level, right? In the asymptomatic patient, calcium level is one of the defining characteristics. So protocols it stands now, if the calcium is one above the upper limit of normal for the lab. So I can quote that our lab if I'm still correct about this is 10.3 calcium milligrams per deciliter that that's the top normal. So the calcium that you quoted of 11.4 would actually meet muster being greater than one above the upper limit of normal for the lab. That's one possibility for the asymptomatic patient that would qualify them for surgery. Having the presence of renal insufficiency, so a creatinin clearance less than 30 becomes a reason that that person may be a candidate for parathyroidctomy. Having osteoporosis on dexa scan is a qualifying feature to consider parathyroidctomy. And age less than 50 years is another feature. And a couple reasons for that. One, the longitudinal studies that have looked at hyperarathyroidism and progression shows that if you're diagnosed before the age of 50, it's very likely that you're going to meet one or more than one of these criteria at some point in your later life. So intervention then is warranted. And the other part of it is is that you're more likely to potentially have a syndrome that causes hyperarathyroidism if you're diagnosed before the age of 50, like an MEM syndrome. You mean right any one of the multiple endocrine neoplasia type syndromes? Yes. As being responsible for causing hyperparimmune polyglandular syndromes as well. And just a word about the parathyroid concentrations. So I think in endocrinology Dr. Mitchell and I are familiar with the concept of inappropriately normal hormone concentrations in a couple of situations. So parathyroid hormone is one of those situations. If there is an elevated serum calcium and there is a normal in the normal range parathyroid level that's inappropriate. So with an elevated thinking about feedback loops and thermostats if there is an elevated serum calcium parathyroid hormone should be low almost nil. So if one has a comfortably normal in the middle of the normal range parathyroid hormone concentration with a calcium in the 11 range there's your diagnosis. Most patients do have an elevated parathyroid hormone level when that is drawn but typically not terribly high. Usually up maybe two times the upper limit of normal is where they usually are. But I would say most patients have an elevated PTH at the time of diagnosis. again depending on how long this has been going on, but there are many that have parathyroid hormone concentrations in the normal range. And I think it's important to know that most of our patients have calciums that have been noticed relatively quickly because of the availability of serum calcium levels on comprehensive metabolic panels or basic metabolic panels. So that's interesting, Carrie. So if you have a if you have hypercalcemia and you get a PTH back and it's normal that can be inappropriately normal and that can still mean they have primary hyperarathyroidism. I just want to highlight that point because I think that's a point that a lot of us don't know. Yes. And I don't keep the upper limit of parathyroid hormone levels in my head. I don't know if you do but I don't know is it four or something like this. Well I know well pen has a very our assay. So the assay at Penn is its own unique assay and I believe the top normal for our assay is 6.4. Yeah, I believe it's 6.4 whereas if you get labs back from LabCore picking on them just because they're the preferred for IBC. So of course we get a lot of lab core labs back. I mean I think their top normal is 72 obvious different units mind you. It actually becomes really relevant that point because I will tell you that I recently had a patient who I saw the PTH flagged. The person has hypercalcemia. The PTH was suffice it to say that I assumed it was from a pen lab and it was not. And so actually the PTH was not high. It was in fact low. And when I did not pay attention to the fact that it was I only took note of the flag and not where the lab was coming from and the designation of high versus low and of course obviously a very different treatment strategy. So thankfully that error didn't reach the patient but it's it becomes relevant that we use a completely different assay with a very different reference range than the commercial labs that we often get results from. So to summarize on this, if your calcium is high and your PTH is normal or high, then the patient has likely hyperarathyroidism, the decision on surgery is going to depend on the factors you mentioned, Christina, a GFR less than 30, an age less than 50, presence of osteoporosis. So I assume anybody that comes to you in this situation, you will do a DEXA scan. A woman over 50, for instance, you'll do a DEXA to assess for that, right? Is there anything else you do? I'll mention here that the workup, one of the criteria that I didn't mention because it's actually no not part of the criteria anymore is a 24-hour urine calcium greater than 400. The idea that hyperarathyroidism causes hypercalceura. It causes loss of excess calcium in the urine. So you would expect the urine calcium to be normal to high. And in fact, it used to be one of the criteria that if you had a very high urine calcium, see normal for women being less than 200 milligrams per day, normal for men being less than 250 milligrams per day, that if you had a urine calcium greater than 400, that that also met muster for surgery. That criteria has been removed. But it's relevant that a condition that can be confused with primary hyperarathyroidism can present with the serum values looking very similar but have a very low urine calcium and that's what goes by the acronym FH familial hypocalceuric hypercalcemia which is very common. I don't recall the actual data. It's 1% 10%. It's some sort of round number percentage that's fairly high on a population level. It's an automal dominant inheritance. So I think it's along the lines of 1 to 3% as far as the incidence of that goes. But what's really relevant is that before I would ever have the patient consult with endocrine surgery, I do check a 24-hour urine calcium to assess for that. There are some things that to be aware of when you do that 24-hour urine calcium. If someone is taking hydrochloroioide, which of course is such a common blood pressure agent and so many of our patients may be on it, they are going to have a low urine calcium. That's just through its mechanism of action. It inhibits the loss of calcium in the urine. So it becomes difficult to use that as a deciding factor if someone is on HCTZ because of that issue. And and then another thing just to be aware of is if someone is taking a calcium supplement. Now admittedly, if you're working them up for hyperarathyroidism, you perhaps you've already told them to stop the calcium supplement. I think most of us would have done that at that point. But if they are actively taking a calcium supplement, that can cause a spuriously high 24-hour urine calcium. So I I do ask patients to hold it for a few days before the collection on the day of the collection. But I think that's important, Christina, too, for patients with osteoporosis that may have a normal serum calcium, we do a urine calcium collection as part of that evaluation. So, I think it's important for 24-hour urine collections in general for whichever purpose you're performing them to have your patients stop calcium supplementation. I usually stop them 2 weeks before the collection to make sure it's not affecting the measurement. What's a circumstance in which you're comfortable simply monitoring a patient with primary hyperarathyroidism without sending them to surgery and what percentage of patients are you doing that with? I would say a patient that does not have a serum calcium above one microgram per deciliter above the upper limit of normal. Maybe a patient who is older in their 80s or 90s in which the long-term effects of elevated serum calcium won't affect longevity or cause any end organ damage. a patient maybe in which surgery is not safe and there are other medications such as synicical that could be utilized or sometimes even bisphosinates are helpful to help control elevated serum concentrations in patients who are not surgical candidates. I think those are the main populations. I think I see a lot of patients maybe I uncover their elevated serum calcium myself on their metabolic panel. I see them for diabetes for example and it's slightly elevated. So I monitor them. Maybe I'll grab a PTH the next time I measure it. Frequently I find our lab has spuriously high serum calciums from time to time. I feel sometimes they go in cycles. I feel like I I'll have really common calciums in the 10.4 4 10.5 10.6 and the next time I check it it's resolved. It's normal. There are other medications you have to think about besides the thioide diuretics. Lithium is another one. I don't think we also talked about vitamin A supplementation can cause elevated serum calcium and that might be something that comes and goes as patients may take supplements and then maybe run out of them. So maybe one time they're taking the supplements in high doses and then the next time they see you they've stopped that. I've seen in my patients that have diabetes who maybe read up on supplements, bitter melon extract is a common supplement that patients with diabetes sometimes take and that can elevate serum calcium sometimes. So, those are patients I'll monitor and maybe the next time I see them, I'll measure a serum pH. Those are really all valuable insights. We all get these labs back and we're stuck trying to figure out what to do. I have the advantage of having Carrie pass by my office a couple times a week, so I'm able to ask her as she walks past, but for the rest of us, we're trying to figure these out. So, let's move on to osteoporosis because we had a great podcast with your colleague Mona al-mukadam, which I really think everyone should listen to. It was very informative and Mona was terrific. But there's some residual issues since that podcast, which is about a year ago. I know for me I've diagnosed more patients with osteoporosis. I've had patients come to me who are already on Prolia or one of the other infusions and asking me to order it and so forth. And so I wanted to kind of go through this a little bit focusing a little bit on therapy specifically. So most of the time I think for many of us internists we diagnose somebody with osteoporosis and our reflex is to do fosmax weekly which is well tolerated. Carrie a question I asked you uh before and probably one of our hallway conversations is when do you just jump right to zolatronic acid or consider the nusamab as opposed to just starting somebody on fossamax? Right. So I do like to use resendrinate or elendrinate as first line especially for patients who maybe have t- scores around 2.5 maybe 2.6 2.8 not in that negative 3 to negative 3.5 range if especially if they have not had a history of fracture. So kind of your entry patient I think resendrinate and elendrinate are great treatment options. They're inexpensive. They're for the most part well tolerated and are really effective at preventing fractures. And I think for the most part I do like to use them first line. When do I think about zolandronic acid? I think if there's been a history of intolerance patient has tried alendrinate and had intolerance which is usually in the form of reflux occasionally diarrhea or constipation or that's usually the situation. So if someone has a history of severe reflux, I think about starting with xandrionic acid. However, if someone has not tried alendrinate or resendrinate, I usually ask them to give it a try because usually the reflux if it's taken appropriately. Occasionally I'll have a patient that does have new onset gird with an oral bisphosphinate. For the most part though, they are well tolerated. So usually I give it a try. But if someone has a history of severe gird or prior intolerance, I would go straight to the xylandrronic acid. Or if it's someone that can't do the protocol of how to take alinate correctly. So just to review that, that is taking the tablet once weekly on an empty stomach 30 minutes before food or other medications and being able to remain upright for a long period of time after that. So not taking it at 3:00 in the morning and going back to bed. We have our patients on levothyroxine that sometimes do that and that's not a problem but doing that with alendronate is a problem. I also think about going to xandronic acid if they've quote unquote failed alendrinate or resendrinate as xandronic acid is a notch more potent than alendrinate. So if someone's taking alendrinate their t-core was -2.6 six and now you've done a DEXA 2 years later it's -2.7 but no history of fractures and maybe you try Zandranic acid and I think to that point Carrie you mentioned about failure of the oral bisphosphinates and perhaps that's going to emerge as a fragility fracture I say here god forbid but and even then you're not sure that it would be failure of the med because of course there's just a high likely I mean there's unfortunately an increased likelihood in the presence of osteoporosis anyway but this is going to bring up something a little off the beaten track in terms of evidence-based but there are in endocrinology we will sometimes use bone turnover markers the serum celloeptide not so much the absolute value is is helpful but in other words if you are starting a patient on an oral bisphosphinate and you check a baseline catelopeptide so it is a marker of bone resorption a marker of osteoclastic activity you have a sense of what that baseline is and if the patient is adequately absorbing the oral bisphosinate because that's the other thing that they may be tolerating it but whether or not there's adequate absorption is it becomes a question for many people there is for most people there there is adequate absorption but for some people there isn't very large nitrogen containing molecules studies suggest that we probably absorb less than 1% of the dose but that's made up for in concentration so for example alendrinate 70 milligrams once a week versus zelendrinate 5 milligrams once a year because you're getting an infused IV so you're absorbing 100% of it but any in any case if someone is adequately absorbing the oral bisphosphinate you'd expect that baseline catelopeptide to decrease significantly after a few months of therapy. So that becomes another way to kind of gauge the success of the oral bisphosphinate in addition to symptoms are they tolerating it and then the future dexa scan. The only issue with measuring the ctilopeptite is frequently that's not being covered by insurance companies any longer as well. So that's something that you have to just have a caveat that it may not be covered and maybe have a discussion with your patient about that because that's been a recent and a popular target of insurance companies of late to not pay for that measurement. And so you have somebody on FOSMAX, you treat them for five years and then you give them a holiday. Carrie, you mentioned a circumstance in which somebody might be on for two years and then you switch them to Zoladronic acid, which I believe you do a holiday after three years, right? So, I just wanted to address that holiday issue. Right. So I think when these medications first came out, I believe it was the 1990s, patients were prescribed them maybe a little too frequently, maybe premenopausally, maybe with low bone mineral density and not true osteoporosis. So these drugs were really very popular and probably overprescribed and prescribed for a long period of time. And that's when in the earlier 2000s she started to see these rare side effects come out such as atypical femur fracture and osteoncosis of the jaw. The atypical femur fracture which is still exceedingly rare. I would say somewhere in the one in 10,000 to one in 100,000 is likely linked to a dose dependent use of bisphosinates both and denosimab. Denosmab is not free from that and osteo necrosis of the jaw which is an unhealing ulcer in the mouth usually after an extraction or perhaps an implant of a tooth and it's very difficult to heal very upsetting to the patient and that population in which that's seen is patients that are dosed frequently with zandrronic acid frequently patients with metastatic breast cancer or who are dosed quarterly or maybe even more frequently with zandrenic acid. So the but these effects started to become clear that they were likely linked to bisphosinate and denosimmab and that's where you saw the FDA come out and basically that statement was typically they recommend 5 years of oral bisphosinate therapy and three doses of xylandrronic acid but at that point you should reassess. So it's not like it's a hard stop you should stop therapy. A reason to continue those drugs is if the patient still has osteoporosis. So if patient has been on you start a patient on they have a t-core of negative -2.7 at the hip you treat them with 5 years with oral resentate let's say you you check a dexa at that 5year mark and they're now -2.4 they haven't fractured that's a great time to have a drug holiday. Let's say that same patient has the same t-core maybe you continue it or maybe you intensify treatment. So if they have osteoporosis, they should still be treated and should not necessarily have a drug holiday. Sometimes switching medications is a good idea, especially in your highest risk patients if they've been on one of those medications for a long period of time. So thinking about if they still have osteoporosis, it's still okay to treat them, but thinking about things like asking about dental health at every visit to make sure there's nothing coming up that maybe you'd want to delay a reclass infusion perhaps if there's a dental implant that's about to happen. So let's talk about this issue of isoladronic acid versus denosimab. Thank you for correcting my pronunciation there, Carrie. Otherwise known as prolia. You're assuming I'm right. So Christina, when do you choose one or the other? Do you have a preference? How do you go about making that decision? That's a tough one. That's a tough one. I mean, so okay, so you've established that the patient has either failed or hasn't tolerated an oral bisphosphinate and hence what's next. I think in general, I will go with the IV bisphosphinate, but there are there there denosimab remains a niche choice for some people. So the patient with renal insufficiency, we can safely use the bisphosphinate up to a GFR of 30. But as you get closer to 30, you there there is the concern there is the concern that the IV bisphosphinate could potentially hasten a demise of renal function. So that certainly sticks with me and ultimately you don't have the same concerns at all with renal function with denosimab. So certainly the patient who's has borderline renal function denosimmab is going to be a great choice. the person who has very low T- scores, so minus3 and lower. While denosimmab is not by definition an anabolic agent, most of the time we do see t-core improvements with denosimab and that's one of the situations where maybe you consider using it to improve the t-ores to get them back into a reasonable range and then maybe you do end up replacing it with reclass. So there there are a couple. So perhaps based on renal dysfunction or based on severity of osteoporosis, prolia may be a good choice. There was this issue that Dr. Almukadam had raised in the last podcast about osteoporosis about us not knowing how to stop demos. You were getting it every six months and then you would get this sort of rebound bone loss if people kind of fell off schedule. But it seems like there's been some movement in that area. Carrie, can you speak to that? Sure. So, I like to think of the osteoclast as the main actor here. So, both bisphosphinates and denosimab affect the osteoclast. So, bisphosphinates such as alendronate will cause osteoclast apoptosis once the osteoclast have already left the bone marrow and are in circulation. I like to think of denosimab which is a monoconal antibbody to rank lian as basically never letting those osteoclass out of the marrow. So they don't even they don't even come out. They're just completely suppressed with denosimab and as you know denosmab is twice a year and its action starts to wne towards the end of that time. What we started to see again first anecdotally and now in the literature is patients that missed the next donasimab injection once that action went away and Ranglyan was able to go on to its downstream events that this lack of suppression of osteoclass cells now these osteoclass cells started coming out of the bone marrow quite fervently and we started to see rebound especially for tbral fractures in patients who missed prolodos dosing and this became apparent and obviously concerning. We think typically you have about a month grace period after the last dose. So that sometimes is a time to get that dental work in to see how it's going. But the expert opinion that came out following the identification of this problem is that if you do want to stop denosimab, let's say it's time for a drug holiday or there's intolerance or just there's an issue that waiting until typically a month after the next expected dose of denosimab, you could dose either oralendrinate or flendonic acid to then take down some of that osteoclass activity causal apoptosis of that resurgent of osteocl resurgence of osteoclass and that would likely again there's no not a lot of data on this because it's a low number but would likely reduce the risk of rebound for tibo fracture and it's also important to know that once you stop prolia all of that benefit kind of it kind of comes right back down again so not just the fracture I mean so the fracture risk does kind of come back down again pretty rapidly so I personally like to utilize prolia as kind of a second line agent because of that risk, but I do use it in my practice quite a bit. If I have patients that are oxytogenarians, nonogenarians that have pretty severe osteoporosis or fractured, they're staying on Prolia. We don't do a holiday in some of those patients. So, I'm really careful about who I select for denosimab from the start. Car that's very helpful. I think we are thinking about these issues, talking about them with patients. They're asking us questions, bouncing off what they've heard from the endocrinologist. And so knowing this information is very helpful. This has been terrific information. I wanted this podcast to be sort of practical pearls of managing various calcium difficulties we have in primary care, including hyperarathyroidism, learning more about vitamin D and osteoporosis, and we've really accomplished that. So, I'm sure everybody will very much appreciate listening to the thoughts you brought to the table here, Christina and Carrie. And so, I'm looking forward to having you back to discuss another thing. We want to do another diabetes one and talk about some of the updates there. So, hopefully we'll be able to get you back for that soon. Thank you. Thank you. So, thank you for listening to the Penn Primary Care Podcast. Please join us again next time. Please note that this podcast is for educational purposes only. For specific questions, please contact your physician.