When I first lost my dad, I had no clue about the emotions I was dealing with. I just felt overwhelmed 24/7. So, I feel like coming to Camp Aaron helped me learn what I was experiencing. Grief isn't always a bad thing. It means that you cared for your person, means that you loved your person, and that you want to remember them. My father passed away in October of 2016. I came to Camp Aaron in 2017. I had a lot of issues after his passing. I was an anxious kid and I had a hard time socializing with others, especially speaking about the grief. Knowing that there's someone out there the same age as you that also understands what you're going through makes you feel less alone. Camp Aaron is the largest juvenile briefment program for kids. And what it does is it teaches these kids how to grieve properly after the loss of a loved one. Camp Aaron serves children six to 17 throughout Pennsylvania. They get the structure that they need in order to not necessarily move on with their grief, but move forward with the grief. And that's a really important part. Camp Aaron was founded on the namesake of my cousin Aaron. She passed away from metastatic liver cancer at the age of 17. So that's kind of where Camp Aaron was born with that idea of making sure that children are able to move forward with the loss and the grief of someone they've loved. We try to balance moments of remembering their loved one with, okay, now we're going to go and release our energy and we're having fun. I think that's what Camp Baron does very well, instilling a sense of fun into everything. It's definitely important to balance the activities because at the end of the day, yes, you went through something so awful, but you're also a kid who should be experiencing normal kid things. Just seeing a smile on their face is the most rewarding thing. I also really love the luminary ceremony. You get to just reflect on your time at camp, on your person, on your experience of grief. The kids work on these luminary bags where they write about the person, do drawings for the person. Then when you're up on the hill looking into the water, you get to take your candle and put it onto a little raft that is rode out into the middle of the lake. When you put your candle on the raft, you get to say your person's name, a memory about them. >> The person that I lost was my grandma. >> This is for mama. This is for my dad. My first time I just felt so at peace after doing so many things that day during camp. Just sitting down and thinking about my person. I just felt really connected to my dad for the first time in a long time. I felt like he was in the sky looking down at me in the moment. Pen medicine through the David Bradley Foundation is the backbone of Camp Aaron. The David Bradley Foundation helps provide the donations for the campers to come and pen Medicine is so wonderful to be able to sponsor this program for children in need. >> Everybody give it a round of applause. Camp Aaron has honestly made me a lot of who I am today. And I think it's really just helped me see that I'm not alone in this world and that I can depend upon others. And it's made me a person who wants to give a lot of love to this world.