Research shows that men can carry mutations in the BA 1 and BA 2 genes that can increase their risk of several cancers. Welcome to the podcast series from the specialists at Pen Medicine. I'm Melanie Cole and we have a thought leader panel for you today with specialists from Penn Medicine and the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania highlighting men and the brackagene mutation. Joining me is Dr. Cara Maxwell. She's an assistant professor of medicine in hematology oncology. Dr. Jenny Zang, she's an assistant professor of surgery in the division of breast surgery. Dr. Dan Lee, he's an assistant professor of urology in surgery. And Dr. Bryson Katona, he's the director of the gastrointestinal cancer genetics program. Doctors, thank you so much for joining us today. Dr. Maxwell, I'd like to start with you. Can you please tell us the basics on men and the brackagenetic mutation or pathogenic variant? No, absolutely. We've known in our own small field for a long time that there are risks of cancer in men who have uh BRCA1 and BRCA2 pathogenic variants or we'll use the word mutations tonight. We've always known that there's cancer risks, but I feel like that was not as well communicated out into the community and to the lay audience because these genes are named after breast cancer and the syndrome is named hereditary breast ovarian syndrome. And so it's very understandable why people would get confused that this seems like just a problem for women. But as we know all genetic changes inherited in families go through both men and women. And so one of the things is just to remind people of that genetic piece that you can inherit that pathogenic variant from either mom or dad. Well then Dr. Maxwell what should primary care doctors know as we're talking about this? What are the indications for genetic testing in men that are thought to be at risk for bracka pathogenic variance? We are in general just trying to engage our primary care colleagues. We recognize that our primary care docs are just very overburdened. There's so many things that they have to do. Primary care docs often make decisions on whether or not their patient should undergo basic cancer screening like colonoscopy, prostate screening, etc. And so for men, I think they're already thinking about this. should this happen? And so asking that family history, which they very well might be doing about prostate cancer or colon cancer, just adding on that asking about family history for breast and ovarian. And then we always say that we'd rather get more referrals for genetics and that we don't really need testing than not get enough referrals and miss those people who do. And so I think that the biggest thing is making sure that primary care docs know how easy it is to get people into genetic testing now that it's not as expensive as it used to be and making those referrals even it's perhaps a lower indication that somebody might need testing. And Dr. Maxwell, one more question for you here. Just give us a quick overview of the cancers that are connected with the BA mutation in men specifically. Some cancers are just seen in men, which of course would be prostate cancer. And that's the one that we worry about most with our bracket gene carriers, particularly beers positive. Men have perhaps up to a 40% risk of getting prostate cancer. Depends a lot on their self-identified race, genetic ancestry, family history. A lot of factors can modify that. And so that's one that we worry about the most. But men can get breast cancer, too. And that's something that almost every man diagnosed with breast cancer tells me that he didn't know he could have been diagnosed with breast cancer. It's rare. It's really rare. even in BRCA 1 or two carriers maybe 5 to 10% of BRCA 2 carriers for example also in BRCA1 but it can happen and that most men are unfortunately diagnosed late with their breast cancer which I think we'll get into later and that's because men aren't often thinking about that area of the body as a part that could get cancer and then men just like women are at increased risk of pancreatic cancer with BRC1 or two mutations and then there's probably just a slight increased risk of a lot of different cancers and And a lot of the work that we're doing in the Bassor Center is to try to help define some of those other cancers that BC 10 or two carriers might be at risk for that probably don't have any sort of sex differences. And so it's more just making sure that men know that all these other cancers exist that they could also be at risk for, not just breast and ovarian. This is so interesting. And Dr. Lee, are there signs or indications in prostate cancer specifically that might lead one to suspect an association with the bracket mutation? Well, so that's the tricky thing and thank you again for this invitation to talk. Prostate cancer is exceedingly common, but unfortunately the vast majority of men actually do not have any symptoms. So, same go for those who have the BRC mutation. And so, that's one of the common things that we often relay to our men when we're talking about screening is that you shouldn't rely or wait until you have symptoms for when you start the screening process again because the vast majority of these cancers are found without any symptoms. And Dr. Katona universal screening isn't currently recommended for pancreatic cancer. Are bracka positive men an exception because pancreatic cancer is one of those more silent cancers and is this a way that we can maybe suspect and catch it earlier? Thank you for that great question and thank you also for the opportunity to join today. I think your first point about universal screening for pancreatic cancer not being recommended that's an important one. The US preventative services task force has come out very strongly on this that individuals at average risk for pancreatic cancer really should not be undergoing screening. Now that being said, we know both BRCA1 and BRCA2 carriers have an increased risk of pancreatic cancer with the risk for BRCA2 carriers being a little bit higher than that for BRCA1 carriers. And when deciding which BRCA1 and two carriers to offer pancreatic cancer screening to in the past we had always had to rely on whether or not there was a family history of pancreatic cancer. So in fact carriers were only recommended to undergo pancreatic cancer screening if they had either a firstderee relative meaning a parent or a sibling or a secondderee relative like a grandparent or you know aunt or uncle with pancreatic cancer. The uh issue though with using family history to decide who gets screening and who doesn't get screening is that sometimes people, you know, have small families. Sometimes people don't know their family history or there may be miscommunication of family history. And then especially when you're talking about hereditary cancer risk syndromes, sometimes people die of other cancers at very early ages. And so using family history is certainly not perfect. I think it's also interesting to note that the majority of BRCA 1 and two carriers who are diagnosed with pancreatic cancer don't have a family history of of pancreatic cancer. And so that was a long-winded response to get back to your initial question about whether or not all BRCA 1 and two men are eligible for pancreatic cancer screening. And really now the answer is the majority of them can be considered for pancreatic cancer screening if they're of appropriate age. And so in individuals without a family history of pancreatic cancer, we can start the discussion of pancreatic cancer screening starting at age 50. If there is a family history of pancreatic cancer, we would either start at 50 or 10 years prior to the youngest pancreatic cancer in the family. However, my last point is that guidelines are not consistent with this recommendation. So currently the NCCN or the national comprehensive cancer network guidelines recommend screening for all BRCA2 carriers but require that BRCA1 carriers still have a family history of pancreatic cancer. Whereas guidelines from the ASG which is a gastroenterenterology society recommend that pancreatic cancer screening be offered to all BRCA1 and BRCA2 carriers regardless of family history. So these guidelines being different is a little bit confusing for patients and providers, but at least it gives you a hanger to hang your head on when you're ordering this. You will have one guideline to back up your decision if your patient is very motivated. Well then, Dr. Maxwell, in men, are the risks and outcomes of cancer identified with BA 1 different from those of BA 2 and different in the general population? And if there's a difference between all of these, do we know why it exists? Yeah, that's such a great question and something that I think is really important because the so many of the studies that we quote in the BRCA field lump all of the BRC 1 and two carriers together and we recognize more and more that there may be differences between BRCA 1 and 2, not just in the risk but also the outcomes. And so certainly between BRCA1 and BRCA 2 with regards to risk, we know that prostate cancer is higher risk and BRCA2 pancreatic cancer is also probably higher. But when we think about the outcome right now, we don't know if there's a difference between BRCA 1 and BRC2 carriers when it comes to say for things like for example responses to treatment. For example, PARP inhibitors can be used in metastatic prostate cancer. We don't know if there's a difference between BRC1 and BRC2 in that context even though we do know that there's a difference in that treatment response compared to the general population. And I think the reason this question is so interesting is that in general a lot of BRC1 and BRC2 related cancers respond very well to treatment. So we often see for example in ovarian cancer that a BRCA carrier will do extremely well with chemotherapy probably due to significant response to say platinum chemotherapy like carboplast and so we're seeing that across a lot of different cancers including those in men as well and so that's always a point I really like to be able to make is that a lot of times people equate having one of these genetic mutations as automatically meaning that the outcome's going to be worse and that may not be the case even in situations like breast cancer where we know that BRC1 carriers may have a worse type of breast cancer that may still not translate into a worse outcome for example. The last point I just want to make on this is that alluded to earlier with breast cancer and I don't think that necessarily BRC1 and BRC2 cause worse breast cancer in men. I think it more has to do with that awareness and not maybe getting diagnosed as early. And so we really have to tease those things apart and why it's so important for all of our colleagues that aren't in cancer genetics or aren't in medical oncology to help us identify people earlier and not think that like oh well we're finding this thing that's going to have this terrible outcome for our patients and that in fact it's probably going to help them quite a bit in a variety of different ways. Dr. Zen, I'd like you to speak about prophylactic mastctomy options. Are they available for men at high risk with brackage genetic mutation and are there reconstructive options? Tell us a little bit about what's going on in that realm. Hi. Yes. Thank you so much for inviting me to be on the podcast as well. So maybe I can just start with just the basics of the treatment paradigm in terms of surgical management of men who have breast cancer. In general, it's often very similar to how women are treated because in males, most of the breast tissue is concentrated behind the nipple areolar complex. That's where the vast majority of cancers end up being found. And so often when a sight of cancer is close to the nipple areola, it is very common for us to have to remove the nipple. And so I would say that the vast majority of male breast cancer patients will end up having a mastctomy. However, breast conservation, which may be less wellnown, is definitely an option for men with breast cancer as well. About 10 to 25% of patients will actually have breast conservation, which is a lumpctomy with preservation or with removal of the nipple areoler complex followed by radiation and keeping the rest of the breast tissue intact. Now, for men who elect to have a mastctomy or need to have a mastctomy, what do we do for options for contrlateral prophylactic mastctomy? Typically the risk is pretty low and most people don't need it for cancer reduction but I think there has been a lot of increase since the 2000s in terms of contrlateral prophylactic mastctomy there's probably about an overall incidence of 6% of people choosing to do contrlateral prophylactic mastctomy I think this is an area that probably is somewhat underststudied and certainly could use more data as well as far as reconstruction I think this is a poorly exp- explored area in men who have breast cancer. In general, surgeons are not offering reconstructive options to men and I think this is something that we are interested in exploring more here at Penn. Essentially, reconstructive options include especially for significant contour deformities, chest wall reconstruction with local tissue rearrangement or autotogus flaps such as the latisimus flap and other local tissue rearrangement options. Sometimes fat grafting can also be performed to help with contour defects. If the concern is the lack of a nipple and the lack of symmetry with that regard, there are options for nipple reconstruction as well as nipple tattooing, including 3D tattoos that actually can look really nice and many of our female patients also pursue this type of nipple tattooing as well. This is a riveting discussion and Dr. Lee, I'd like you to talk about the patrol study evaluating people at risk for prostate cancer because they carry one or more genes that are known to increase prostate cancer risk. What then is the link between PSA and management of the BA 1 and two prostate cancer? Speak about the study for us. Sure. Thanks for the invitation for that. So the whole concept for us as cancer doctors, geneticists, and primary care doctors is to find the disease early in its disease course. when you can make significant changes, when you can really impact how people do throughout the whole journey. So the concept is if we can find a disease earlier, when it's still curable and treatable, then that's a win. Now the tricky thing with BRCA mutations, there's a significant study that was done in the mid 2010s that showed that folks with BRCA mutations were found to have significant cancers even at much lower PSA levels than what we usually attribute or what we were usually concerned about. For most normal men, we consider PSAs around 3.5 or four if you're in your 50s or 60s to be considered normal. But what they found was that for men with BRC mutations, you can still find significant cancer at lower PSA thresholds. So the patrol study that you mentioned before is a multi-institute national study led by Dr. Chang and Dr. Lynn out of the University of Washington. We at Penn are one of the uh leading partners and collaborators with them. And the purpose of the study is to see if by lowering that PSA threshold and utilizing MRIs, we can find these significant prostate cancers earlier in the disease course before they become metastatic. And we've been enrolling patients for about the past year and a half now, and we just enrolled our 100th patient. So, we're very very proud of that and very glad to have the support and collaboration of the Basser Center and our sponsors here for this because we've already found at these lower thresholds some significant prostate cancers at localized areas and treated them successfully and patients are now disease-free when the PSA that they've had would never have been a trigger for a threshold before. Meaning because of this screening study, we found significant cancers when if we tried to use regular PSA thresholds, it probably would have been much more advanced disease. So, we're very excited about these results and for collaborating in this study. Wow. Absolutely an exciting time in this genetic field and I thank you all so much for joining us today and sharing your incredible expertise for other providers. And to refer your patient to our specialists at Penn Medicine, please call our 247 provider only line at 877937 PEN or you can submit your referral via our secure online referral form by visiting our website at penmed.org/refer your patient. That concludes this episode from the specialists at Pen Medicine. I'm Melanie Cole. Thank you so much for joining us today.