Since I retired in 2010, Susan in 2014, we have uh done at least three or so big trips, sometimes four a year. We love travel because uh we've read about these countries. We've seen documentaries, movies, etc. But to be there, to actually stare up at the Eiffel Tower, uh to be in a bull ring in in in Spain, to have fish and chips in one of the oldest ins uh it was just a great experience. In 2014, I was diagnosed with large BC cell diffuse nonhotkins lymphoma. The chemo I went through, the six months of chemo that year, took care of the mass. And all of a sudden, a couple years ago, I felt a lump on my back and that was the start of my second chemo journey. >> Okay. >> All right. >> Went into remission for 2 years, but the blood tests and all that showed that it came back. And that's when Dr. beer introduced us to the concept of CARTT. >> CARTT uh chimeic antigen receptor TE-C cells are the patients TE-C cells. We'll say genetically altered or engineered so that they express a receptor for a target on their cancer cells. We um stimulate those cells using what we call growth factors so that we can get a large concentration of them. Four weeks later, after they've proven that they accept this substance, they're reinserted into the body and the white tea cells fight the cancer cells. And uh he said it was either that or further chemo. And I'd already been through chemo twice. I said, "Let's let's try CARTT." One of the unique things about CARTT is that outside of Altogus stem cell transplant after initial therapy, it's really their only legitimate chance at being cured, meaning having the cancer go away and never need treatment for it again. That's what makes it special to me is the chance for for cure. I think it was easier than my original chemo because that was a whole summer that was uh 8 weeks of being really knocked down. Uh hair loss, no strength. Uh CARTT was once and done and after I recuperated it was it's phenomenal. When I had the opportunity to get to CARTT here, I was really grateful. Lancaster feels like a small small town, but we have a very good hospital system. >> The first adult was treated uh at Pen Medicine with CARTT therapy and the first child was treated at Pen Medicine with CARTT. >> Knowing that they're on top of innovation is very comforting. That's why this area is one of the best places in the country to retire. Uh, old folks need medical care and what you get in this area is excellent. I can't say enough about the nurses and the doctors here at LGH at the cancer center. We became friends through my treatments. When I go to see Dr. Beer, when he comes in, he we shake hands and he says, "How are you doing?" I said, "Fine, fine." and he said, "Where are you going next?" And then we kind of start the visit light-heartedly, tell him about our trips that are planned and where we've been in the last few months. And uh and he just enjoys hearing about that. >> Don is a jet setter. Uh you know, my hope for Don is that he's freed from cancer forever. And every time that he follows up and he's doing well and I'm hearing about stories of travels, past and future instead of hearing about symptoms from cancer, we're winning. When you're diagnosed with cancer, it's not the end of life. It's the beginning of an adventure, a trial. Uh it's tough. Yeah, it's tough. But when you consider the alternative, you don't want to give up. Cling to life. There's so much good about it. So just join the fight. I thank God for my health, for the time I have at this point. And I count every day as a gift.