Welcome to the podcast series from the specialists at Pen Medicine. I'm Melanie Cole and today we're discussing cardiome's technology at Penn Medicine. Joining me is Dr. Monnique Tana. She's an assistant professor of clinical medicine at the Pearlman School of Medicine at Penn Medicine. Dr. Tana, I'm so glad to have you join us today. For heart failure patients, hospital readmissions are common and failure to successfully transition patients from inpatient to outpatient care can result in readmission to the hospital. What have you seen as far as readmissions and the resulting costs and mortality? Heart failure is a disease with significant morbidity and mortality and one of the things that we look at very carefully, one of the metrics that we use is heart failure readmissions and Unfortunately, our patients with heart failure often have frequent heart failure readmissions which not only affects their quality of life um but also leads to increased mortality. We know that patients who have repeated heart failure admissions and um recurrent heart failure admissions do have higher mortality rates and it also leads to a significant burden on our health care system and there's a significant cost associated with it. So then tell us a little bit about cardioms. How does this technology work? So cardioms is really a great uh technology that we have been using more and more at pen medicine. um cardiums is a pulmonary artery sensor and um I'll go a little bit into that in more detail but I just wanted to mention that um as you know technology is really advancing within the healthc care field and things are rapidly changing in this domain and every day we see new technologies that can add to the possibilities of remote managing of patients and these can be wearable sensors as well as implantable devices such as the cardiums So the cardamems is a pulmonary artery sensor um that is implanted via a right heart caization. It's a small device that sits in one of the branches of the pulmonary artery and it's able to measure the pulmonary artery pressure and the patient can transmit this information wirelessly on a daily basis and this information is sent to us via a website and we can track the pulmonary artery pressures. And the thought is that when a patient with heart failure begins to accumulate fluid um and has volume overload and fluid retention, the current markers that we use today are really patient symptoms and increases in weight. And often times by the time that we see these markers, it is often times too late. And when we see that patients are having more symptoms or gaining weight, we do try our best to augment their outpatient diuretics. And sometimes we're successful, but other times it's already too late and patients end up in the hospital despite us trying to augment their outpatient diuretics. And the reason for that is that when we see these symptoms and weight changes, this is really happening only a few days before the patient ends up in the hospital. And this is a period known as clinical congestion. And what we're trying to do with the pulmonary artery sensor is to detect fluid retention much earlier um before the patient develops clinical congestion when the patient is still in a phase called hemodynamic congestion. So in that phase the patient is really in the early stages of fluid retention and in that early stage the filling pressures in the heart and the pulmonary arteries start to increase and this is way before patients have any symptoms or even changes in weight. We think that this happens about 3 weeks before a possible hospitalization. And monitoring the patient's pressures gives us the ability to detect hemodynamic congestion which is again much earlier in the process of fluid retention and allows us to augment their diuretics much earlier and really prevent those hospitalizations. Well, thank you for that answer Dr. Tannis. So speak a little bit about the clinical indications patient selection and any patients that it might be contraindicated for. When do you decide to activate this system? So the cardiamms device was studied in the champion trial which was published in 2011 and based on that trial the current FDA approved indication for this device is patients who have heart failure either preserved ejection fraction or reduced ejection fraction. So patients with heart failure and any ejection fraction who have NYHA class 3 symptoms and also a heart failure hospitalization in the prior year. So those are really the indications for the device itself. So there is a large group of patients who do meet indication and oftentimes I think we don't really think about it in patients who are overall doing well but I think in patients who have had a hospitalization in the last year this is really something to think about early on so that we can prevent future recurrent hospitalizations and I also want to add that there's a currently ongoing trial guide heart failure guide HF which look is looking at expanded indications patients, namely NYH in class 2 to four and also having either a heart failure hospitalization in the past 12 months or an elevated BNP. Um, but currently that's not included in the FDA approved indications, but once we have the results of the guide trial, that may change. So, what about cost effectiveness? Is it based on the cost of implanting the device and upkeep versus mortality benefits when you're talking about these studies and and whether they were sustained keeping a patient alive? Is it proving to be cost effective? Doctor, that's a great question. So looking at the results of the champion trial uh we did see which was a randomized trial um all the patients received the cardium's device but only half of them had the pressures managed and the other half clinicians were blinded to the pressures. In that trial we saw that there was a significant reduction in heart failure hospitalizations. Um at 15 months there was a 37% reduction in heart failure related hospitalizations. Looking at costs, there have been some smaller studies that have shown that there is a cost benefit. Also, keeping patients out of the hospital not only reduces the cost of the hospitalization, um, but patients also have improved quality of life, which was also shown in the Champion study. So, that also is a cost savings in terms of patients quality of life and well-being. For it to be effective, how important is the input from multiple independent elements to achieve this effect? For example, Dr. Tana, consistent patient participation and compliance, health care provider participation as being two of those elements. And as we look at them, the number of days between patient transmission of the data and the average number of days between healthcare provider reviews of that same data, you know, for adequate medication review and adjustment. How does this all work together for it to be that effective? When we screen patients for the cardium's device, one of the things that we look for is to make sure that we enroll patients who are going to be able to transmit their pressures every day and be compliant with this therapy. The pressures are transmitted wirelessly. So the patients go home with a cardium's device which they lie down on every morning and press a button. It takes less than a minute for the patient to actually transmit their pressure. So, it's something that's relatively easy to do, but it is something that the patients do have to do every day. That said, even if they don't do it every day, as long as we have a few readings a week, that's actually more than adequate to use this device to manage the patients. Because as it is, even if the patient uh for example sent a pressure reading today and it was elevated, I wouldn't necessarily act on a pressure reading from one day. We look at the trends. So if the patient is trending in a certain direction or is out of their range for a period of 3 days, that's when we act. So given that if the patient misses their day or two here and there, that's still okay and still gives us the benefit of the device itself. We still encourage of course the patients to transmit their p their pressures every day. On the other side, the receiving of the pressures and the management of the device itself um is really a great question because oftent times people ask me and are concerned and worried appropriately about the data that is being sent to us and I think a lot with a lot of these remote monitoring technologies and a lot of these new devices there's a lot of data that's being generated and one of the concerns is how much of this data is actually useful information and how much of this data is not really clinically useful in just overburdening our system and giving us more data that we need to filter through and look at. The cardium's device is really designed um in a great way because when we do the implantation itself, we set individualized goals for each patient. So each patient has their goal pulary artery pressure and it's nice because you can individualize this for every patient and the system is set up so that we get a alert notification twice a week for patients who are out of their range. So it's not something that we have to constantly keep looking at every day and spend a lot of time analyzing and looking at. we get notifications uh via email that these patients are out of their range and the time that is spent in reviewing that data and calling that patient is really much smaller even though it feels that you're doing more work upfront. Um if you look at it I think at the end the extra time that you spend reviewing the data and calling the patient is much less compared to the alternative where if you didn't have a party memb called in with symptoms and you were addressing the issue at that stage and often times having a heart failure hospitalization I think the time put in up front is is actually much less so interesting. What an interesting piece of technology. So as you're telling us about how cardioms has changed your decision-making scenario because it's really a form of telea medicine in a way. Yes. And tell us how your outcomes have been and what do your patients think of it. So our outcomes you know anecdotally uh we have a small group of patients right now. So patients that I'm managing right now we've really seen a benefit patients who are compliant with the device and we are able to manage. we really are able to reduce the heart failure hospitalizations and we have a lot of our patients who feel the same way that it's really benefited them and really help them keep them out of the hospital. Um and studies that have been done on a more broad scale you know pro approval marketing studies as well as studies from other centers have similarly shown that using the cardiums device really does reduce hospitalizations and improve quality of life. Fascinating. As we wrap up, how has cardioms aided you in the early prediction of upcoming decompensation and optimization of patients therapy and thereby avoidance of hospital readmissions and what you would like other providers to know about referral. The cardmen's device as I mentioned allows you to predict and to see fluid retention early on prevent hospitalizations. It also allows you to increase and uptitrate guideline directed heart failure therapy which is also another cornerstone um and key management of heart failure. So the patients when you see their elevated pulmonary arterial pressure pressures not only do we augment their diuretics but we also increase hydraysene nitrates other medications. So I think it really also helps get people on guideline directed heart failure therapy and I think that we don't often think of this device often enough and I think one of the takeaways is that it's important to really refer patients early for this therapy. Often times when patients have NYJ class 3 heart failure and are relatively doing well we don't have that momentum to try to do something else. But this is really sort of a preventive therapy and it really does help people you know keep people out of the hospital. And the other thing I wanted to add is that for heart failure with preserved injection fraction this is really the only therapy that has been shown to have a benefit. We really don't have any other medications or other therapies that have shown to be beneficial in heart failure with preserved ejection fraction. But this really has shown that it does reduce hospitalizations and improve quality of life in that group of patients as well. Thank you so much Dr. Tana for such great information and for joining us today to share your expertise on cardioms. That concludes this episode from the experts at Penn Medicine. To refer your patient to a specialist at Penn Medicine, please visit our website at penmed.org/refer org/refer or you can call 877-937 PEN for more information and to get connected with one of our providers. Please remember to subscribe, rate, and review this podcast and all the other PEN medicine podcasts. I'm Melanie Cole.