- I've always had an interest in complex situations, complex scenarios and medicine really provided me with an opportunity to come up with some really unique scenarios and really unique solutions for patients. My name is Samir Mehta, and I'm Chief of Orthopedic Trauma at Penn Medicine. One of the reasons that I went into medicine was because I really do enjoy takin care of patients. I'm passionate about seeing the work that we do result in a change in the person that we're working with. Orthopedics was something that I really gravitated to in medical school. I felt like I could engage with the patient, partner with them, get them better, and get them back to their life. That is only going to get better as you get stronger. (music) One of the important aspects of medicine in general, but particularly surgery, is really trying to make sure that everybody is on the same page. Your knee gave and crushed the tibia down, almost like a pothole. There is a lot of information that has to be processed. Particularly when you are in a situation where you've had some type of trauma, you need surgery, these are the options being presented, and you are trying to put that all together. And I think as a patient, having the opportunity to have your questions answered is really important. My approach to care, is that it's really patient specific. We really focus on the patient, their injury, their needs, and what makes the most sense to give that patient the best possible outcome that they can have. I think there's two great parts of my job. That feeling where you know you've put something together and reconstructed it in a way that that patient will have a good outcome. Everyone on the team, working collaboratively, it's a really satisfying feeling. And I think the other thing that I find really satisfying, is saying goodbye to the patients. I sometimes joke around with my patients, if I never see you again that's a good thing. If I did my job, after several months or years, depending on what the issue is, I shouldn't have to see you anymore. You should be out doing whatever it is that you want to do. And doing it the way you want to do it. That's a success.