 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Visit, make sure to check our website at pennmedicine.org slash H-U-P-INFO for the most up-to-date parking information and visitation policies. If you arrive between 11 PM and 5 AM, the Ravden Building main entrance door closest to Spruce Street will remain unlocked. A security officer will greet you, offer to park your vehicle, and escort you to the Ravden elevator. Once you're inside, make a right-hand turn and walk to the second bank of elevators. You have now reached the Ravden elevators. The labor floor and the Perinatal Evaluation Center are located on the seventh floor of the Ravden Building. Take the elevators to the seventh floor. When you exit, walk towards the side with the open door that leads to the Perinatal Evaluation Center, also known as the PEC. The PEC is where you'll check in for your initial medical evaluation when you're in labor. If it's determined that you're in active labor, you'll be admitted to the Labor and Delivery Unit. Sometimes, you're not quite ready for delivery yet, and you might be advised to continue early labor in the comfort of your own home. Once you're admitted, you'll be taken to your room, which has all the accessories you'll need when giving birth, birthing balls, squatting bars, and more. You are welcome to take pictures during the delivery, but video and live streaming are only permitted with the approval of all members of your health care team. Current visitation policies allow two healthy adult support people and one trained doula to be with you during labor and delivery. Your support people will receive wrist bands to identify them as approved visitors. They must be at least 18 years old and cannot switch out with other family members. Be sure to let them know you'll be spending at least one hour getting to know your baby before introducing them to family, whether virtually or in person. The first hour after birth is best spent skin to skin with your baby, helping your little one adjust to life on the outside. This skin to skin time helps keep your baby's blood sugar and body temperature normal, helps with feeding, and helps keep both baby and the birthing parent calm and content. A few hours after you deliver, you and your baby will be transported to a private postpartum room where you will stay until you are discharged. Our team of nurses and providers is well versed in evidence-based postpartum and infant care and will provide you with all the information you need to make informed decisions for you and your family. Family and friends are welcome to visit you during hospital visitation hours, and one person may stay with you overnight. Congratulations to all the new and expecting parents out there. We look forward to making your birthing experience as easy and stress-free as possible, here at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania.