The ultrasound curriculum was developed really to train a future physician with the skills of knowing when to do ultrasound, how to do it, and what to do with the information once the imaging is collected and done correctly. A unique thing about our ultrasound curriculum is it really was designed from the start to be integrated with the rest of the curriculum. Ultrasound is linked to each course and the courses are built around the body's organ systems. So every course also has a built in link to ultrasound. We have one of the most robust preclinical curriculums for ultrasound in the country. We teach everything from heart ultrasound to DVT ultrasound to kidney ultrasound. When you have this exposure early on, when you have this protected environment in medical school where you can become adept and skilled at ultrasound, it's much easier to take a few minutes to the bedside to do things that are good for the patients, good for your team and can make a real difference in medical care. Introducing it and correlating it with the rest of their curriculum that they're learning early on. I think allows for the students to really understand the technology, to be able to understand how it's connected to the anatomy and physiology. And thus when they actually are in the clinical setting, they're able to use the technology much more effectively. Today's course is the student synologist as educator. So your educators are actually  standing all behind you. They're all fourth year students and soon to be graduates. Because we're some of the TAs that help to run the preclinical curricula. We are essentially demoing some of these new technologies, some of the methods we've been using for teaching and showcasing both the kind of skills that you can develop in point of care, ultrasound, and also some of the actual devices that are available for use. So we went from the cart machines now, to these handhelds. We actually have multiple handhelds. This is the Butterfly Device. We're aquiring 60 of these. It's open to all of you here if you want to use an ultrasound device. These smaller handheld devices can be very useful because they can provide you a focus answer to a question where you don't necessarily need the absolute kind of highest quality image, but you need enough information to make a decision on the spot about something. The handheld devices really are meant for students to walk into the hospital, whatever service they're on, and pull it out of their pockets and be able to start scanning. It's very quick to pick up and taken to a patient room to do a quick scan of their heart. If you're worried about shortness of breath or chest pain to really help guide you at a branch point in your treatment plan. I'm actually on service right now, and we have a patient who has heart failure and our medical student took out the handheld device and used that to make a quick decision in real time to help the team. So it really gives them the opportunity to feel included and to make a tangible difference to help the team and be value added to the care team. These handheld devices you can carry from room to room. They're easy to clean and you can do your ultrasound and be in and out of the room within a couple of minutes and be able to make clinical decisions based on your images at the snap of a finger. We're just so grateful for all the support from the Dean's Innovation Fund. And also  from really grateful, wonderful donors such as Vernon and Shirley Hill. I just love watching our students become so adept at this and be able to really improve over the course of their four years here. And I know that will continue to change. But Penn is on the forefront of this change is going to change medicine. Our students will definitely be prepared to take this technology anywhere. And I think that's key because anyone can have the technology, but they'll be the most prepared to actually implement it in a positive way.