- Clinical trials are extremely important in brain tumors. We're not satisfied here just offering patients what anyone can get anywhere. Our entire Penn Brain Tumor Center is always pushing forward to look for the best treatment options for each individual patient. - [Dr Brem] Our goal is to have a trial for every patient cause we know it's more than a trial, this is tomorrow's medicine today, this is innovation today. - [Dr. O'Rourke] We have a continually changing portfolio of clinical trials. The majority of which involve the immune system in some way. The immune system is gonna be where the breakthroughs come from. - And how would you position the patient? - We've been around the margins of improving the survival. Going from nine months to eighteen months, and that's no small thing. We want five years, ten years, fifteen years. The immunotherapy that I have seen here at Penn is the first time I've actually gotten some hope about making a big difference in malignant brain tumors. We are the first center in the United States to use T-cells for glioblastoma. - T-cell therapy is where we are a world leader. For the last several decades, we've been treating every tumor as if it's the same. But it's not the same. By working with our group, we've been able to define a whole spectrum of tumors and so in a few years maybe we are treating those types in a different way. That's where the research is taking us, to this era of precision medicine. - Hi, I'm Eleanore. - [Dr Grady] All of our patients undergo a specific pathological testing that looks at the molecular markers of the tumor cells expressed. And then based on that, we're able to design clinical trials that we have available, to attack those specific cells. - [Dr. O'Rourke] If I were a patient or family member, that's what I would want. I'd want the best people for both the standard care but I'd also want the best experimental care to give myself or my relative the best chance at the longest survival with the highest quality.