- This is a gentleman, injured in a motorcycle crash. He was treated in an outside hospital and he had a large open wound with exposed hardware and exposed bone. Dr Levin did a flap to cover the defect. So now at this point we're ready for the second stage of his reconstruction. The Penn Orthoplastic Limb Salvage Center is a program really designed around the idea of using multiple service lines like plastic surgery and orthopedics to help with limb salvage and limb extremity reconstruction. - We're interested in patients who have had their limbs adversely affected by trauma. Patients with chronic conditions, chronic bone infection, vascular disease to treatment of mal union and non union and functional reconstruction. - We're literally set up to take care of any challenging problem of the extremity. We are constantly looking at new ways we can innovate and help patients. New ways we can help improve their outcomes from a functional standpoint and a surgical standpoint. - With our sophisticated techniques and our multi disciplinary approach between neurologists and neurosurgeons and reconstructive microsurgeons and our hand surgery group there are things we can do that very few places in the world can do. - Did you want to take any of this tibia down? - Aside from all the technology that we have at Penn Medicine all the clinical research studies we have going on. Some of the advance technologies like the limb lengthening nail. And the 3-D printed materials. It is really the personnel that make this program really special. - Not only do we have an incredible bunch of gifted orthopedic surgeons, plastic surgeons, microsurgeons but we also have all the ancillary services that are integral to running a limb salvage center. - As an orthopedic surgeon and an orthopedic traumatologist for me that is truly a luxury. I listen to some of my colleagues across the country and I hear them bemoaning the fact that they don't have people like doctors Levin and Kovach at their disposal who are excited about reconstructing extremities. - We've marked out the fibula bone and then Dr Kovach has marked out the segments that correlate to the planning we did. - We really view our referring providers as partners in this reconstruction endeavor for the patient. Many times the referring providers are and incredible intregal part of the care plan of that patient. - For anybody who is thinking of referring a patient refer them. You call us today, we'll see the patient today. Wherever they are in the world we will bring them to Penn to do what needs to be done. - [Dr Mehta] Our goal is to get you stable and get you moving right away. We really share the outcomes of these patients. Patients who are referred to me will commonly say "I am so glad doctor so and so sent me here for this problem." They recognize the value of that connection and I think that connection is so important.