I'm Dr. William Welch. and I'm Medical Director of the Spine Center at Pennsylvania Hospital. Penn has been an early adopter of full precautions, to protect both the patients and the healthcare workers. Honestly, it's one of the most safe environments and it's one of the most comforting environments I experience in the course of my day to day life. I feel more comfortable coming to Pennsylvania Hospital and the Penn Health System facilities, than I do even going to the grocery store. One of the offerings we now have at the Spine Center and in the departments of neurosurgery and orthopaedic surgery, physical medicine and rehabilitation and pain anesthesia, is the ability to virtually meet with patients. This has been a tremendous advancement. Telemedicine is a very serious undertaking. It reduces the risk to the patients and the healthcare practitioners. It enables us to collect large amounts of information both verbally, with physical cues, with a somewhat limited physical examination. I had a patient yesterday, we did a telehealth exam. He was actually in his garage and I noticed that there were weightlifting exercises behind him. I had him pick up weights so that I could estimate his strength. I think we all believe telehealth, telemedicine, is going to be a significant part of the patient's experience and our experience for years to come. So it meets many environmental, personal, physical, medical, and perhaps even emotional needs. Patients are much more comfortable at home than they are in the physician's office. Patients will contact us, they just are simply concerned or aren't certain if their symptoms are an emergency or warrant an emergency visit. And again, I would suggest, we at Penn always put patients first and we always put safety first. If you have that level of concern about yourself or a loved one, at a minimum you need to contact your local physician. But if it's of a significant concern, I would advise you to go to the emergency room if you think it's an absolute concern, you need to get evaluated, frankly within 12 to 24 hours or so. As a healthcare practitioner, it is almost always my advice that if you're concerned, you need to reach out and you need to get some advice. However, I think that, untreated progressive neurologic deficit may be irreversible. If you think you're suffering from a severe or significant neurologic condition, progressive weakness, progressive numbness, the risks of coming into a facility, even if it's an emergency room, it's actually lower than the risk of suffering a setback because of the neurologic condition. And again, I will say every emergency room now, the Penn Spine Center, the hospitals and the radiology centers are taking tremendous precautions to prevent the spread of disease. If you are not acutely ill but feel as though things are getting worse over time, please give us a call, and we'll get your concerns taken care of through either an in-person meeting or a virtual meeting. While it's not exactly business as usual, we are making great pains to make the treatment of patients as facile and as straightforward as is possible. We obviously want to limit any encumbrances, whether they be time encumbrances, or distance encumbrances to get patients treated adequately, appropriately and expeditiously. We are performing injections at the Penn Spine Center now. We are taking tremendous precautions with social distancing. We limit or are currently excluding family members from accompanying the patients. Again, just to limit the number of people, that have potential exposure to one another. Some physical therapists are seeing patients actively, some are doing virtual visits, but I expect that physical therapists shortly will be seeing patients. So while it may not ever be business as usual, it certainly is... patients will have the ability to get the treatments that they need. We go out of our way to contact the facility that either the patient chooses or that we're directing them to, to try to get this expedited. The Penn spine team was here for you before COVID-19, the Penn spine team has been here caring for patients during COVID-19, and we are open for business and we will take care of you, your family, your loved ones, for many years to come. Give us a call.