I'm Dr. Brian Sennett. I am the Chief of Sports Medicine at Penn Orthopaedics. I'm also the vice chairman of the department. So, during this period of time of COVID-19, it's been pretty stressful for all of us and now we're really challenged to reinvent ourselves for both exercise, staying healthy, and being in shape. What's important as we think about our exercise and our daily routines is, what did we do pre COVID-19? What were you doing in January and February? If you were a runner then, then you should be thinking about being a runner now. If you have never run, this is not the time to be thinking about starting to run. One old adage that we say all the time in the office is, "You burn the same amount of calories when you walk a mile or run a mile." So, if you're looking to burn calories and just to get some exercise, walking is a great means of exercising at this point in time. Diet and exercise is a way to put some structure into our lives that can really give us a little bit of control over times where we don't have a lot of control. Diet is just as important as exercise. The other area I would stress is sleep. We think of sleep as regenerative, we think of sleep as getting us back into shape and allowing our muscles to recover and to have a better mental health during the day, and deal with problems better. So, set a bedtime, we do it for our kids all the time. Try to get those seven or eight hours at night. So, as much as you can build structure through sleep, through diet, through exercise, it's going to benefit you during this COVID-19 time period. If someone is kind of saying to themselves, "What can I do?" "Maybe I wanna try to do more than I've been doing." "What's a good approach?" And the things we're telling people is, do what you think you can do, do it if it's in your wheelhouse. So, what you feel like you can get accomplished and that your body is up to. If you're someone who has not been doing aerobic exercises, walking is a great place to start. If walking goes well, start walking a little faster and you may either build duration or you may build speed but don't try to build both at the same time. There is a rule of thumb that you should never increase more than 10% per week. So what does that mean? Well, usually when I do sport walking, I'll start at two miles, but it means that next week you might walk two and a quarter miles on your walks. The following week, two and a half. So you're adding about 0.2, which is a quarter mile. Now, start picking up the intensity but only 10% faster per week. The same is true with how many push-ups you may do. If you're doing 10 push-ups, the next week you might say, "Let me try to do 11 push-ups." "Maybe let me try to do 12 push-ups." So when it comes to soreness, this is a question we get quite commonly, "What happens if I get sore after I exercise?" The easiest thing first is think about location and second, think about time. Muscle soreness is most of the time okay. You're using muscles you haven't regularly used. So, something as simple as out pulling weeds in your garden, you might get up the next day and say, "Geez, I got a little soreness around my low back." And that would be appropriate, but we expect, we think about time, we expect that to go away over the next several days. Soreness of joints is different. Soreness of joints is a little bit more concerning. So, if you do feel like, "Gee, my knee is sore." you should back off the exercise that you've done, We always think about rest, the old adage is RICE, which is rest, ice, compression and elevation. If three to five days go by and you're looking at a week and you say, "Geez, my knee's still sore." That's probably a good time to reach out to get a telehealth visit, to reach out to a provider. The other thing I would say is that we're talking about sorenesses. We're not talking about injuries. When I say injuries, I'm thinking about the person that's walking and steps off the sidewalk and feels something crack in their ankle and they can't walk on it. If you're concerned that you've done something bad, you should still seek medical care, go to your local emergency room and get evaluated. One of the things that people struggle with is, "Do I go to the hospital if I have a problem?" One thing you can do in many practices, is just contact our offices. We may then have a provider who may get on the phone with you that day and help talk you through some of these issues. For Penn Orthopaedics, we may have you come in to our office to see one of our providers who's seeing patients face-to-face, so that you're not actually coming in to a hospital or the emergency room, you're coming in to Penn Orthopaedics at Radnor. You're coming in to Penn Orthopaedics at Cherry Hill. You're coming to Penn Orthopaedics at University City. So we're finding a location where you may be evaluated by a practitioner where you're not having to worry about being exposed to other patients with coronavirus. We're taking all the precautions, all of our healthcare providers, we're going through temperature screenings when we come into the office every day to try to build a safe environment for our patients and also for our employees. Every week, we see more and more patients through telemedicine, but now we're starting to see patients face-to-face, we're operating again. The last two weeks, I've been in the operating room. For the prior six weeks, I hadn't performed an operation, it was the longest break that I've ever had in my whole career and it feels good to be taking care of patients again face-to-face. Having said that, we are trying to practice kind of a new mix, where we are taking care of patients through telemedicine and I will tell you that patients are really enjoying telemedicine. Through telemedicine, we now have patients that are literally doing other activities in their own house. They may be working, doing virtual work themselves for their office or they may be helping with a child with homeschooling and then Dr. Sennett pops on the phone or another Penn Medicine practitioner jumps on their computer or their phone and we have a 15 or 20 minute visit, and then we just continue a basic office encounter. I'll ask you what your problem is. What are we talking about today? I'll ask you questions about what's wrong with you. I might even step back like you can see me right now. We may talk about your shoulder. I may ask you to go through some range of motion. I might lift my knee up and talk about my knee. I'm sitting at home right now, talking to you. I reach over, I pull out a knee model. I may pull out a piece of paper, I may draw you a diagram. And so, we have a very interactive visit, it's just virtual. We accomplish all those things that we typically would have accomplished face-to-face. We order studies, we set up treatment plans, we prescribe physical therapy and as soon as the visit's over, they're right back to their lives. So, what prior may have taken two and a half to three hours out of their day, now they're taking care of it in 20 minutes. But there are times where we're going to want to see a patient. If I have this patient, who I decide needs surgery, I'm still going to do that visit, prior to the day in the operating room, face-to-face and really discuss with them what they're gonna go through. If I have a patient that I can't quite understand or figure out their diagnosis through telemedicine, those are the patients we're bringing into the office. If a patient needs an injection or a cast or some other treatment that is beyond the scope of what we can provide through a virtual visit like this, those are the patients that we are bringing into the office and now we're able to bring the patients into the office. When you come in as a patient, you will go through some screening. I go through screening when I'm taking care of you. I'll be wearing a mask, I will be wearing goggles and a shield, I will be wearing gloves, I will have my temperature checked when I come in the door in the morning. So, you're gonna be in the safest environment. We are also limiting how many patients are coming in, so that we're limiting how long you're waiting. The days of waiting rooms with a whole bunch of patients sitting next to each other is something that we are not doing at this time. So if you decide that you do feel like you need to be evaluated at Penn Medicine for one of your problems, you can feel confident that you're gonna be cared for in the safest environment possible. We will get that diagnosis established for you. We'll come up with a treatment plan and make you feel good about the care you're getting.