- Today I will be going to West Philadelphia to vaccinate patients who are homebound. They cannot get out to the doctor. They cannot wait in the long lines due to various comorbidities that they have. So we are meeting the demand and seeing these patients in their homes. - If we didn't, chances are, most of these people would never receive the vaccine. - Hi, it's Deb with Penn Med. - Hi Mr. Miller. - Hello. - It's Allison here for your vaccination. How are you? - We're here for your COVID vaccine today! - Well that's good! - Excellent. - I've been waiting for it. - I can't walk too good. I can walk a little bit, but not too good. And I can't stay on my feet too long. But this way, when Debbie came, it's easier. - I'm amputated below the knee, and getting in and out of houses can be a problem at times. I feel more comfortable this way, than going to the hospital. - I was glad that Penn Medicine came to me! - So today we're going to be doing the Johnson & Johnson vaccine. - That's the one-shot? - Correct. - Which arm would you prefer to get the vaccination in? - This side, the right side. - Let your arm hang real loose. You're all done!  Okay, all good? - Yeah. - Okay. - You ready? - Yup. - 1, 2, 3. - All done. - Wow. That was quick. - We’re in and out in 20 minutes, max. It’s a lifesaver. - I haven’t been outside in almost a year. Just to go out, in the fresh air, I would love to do that. - Next month is my birthday, so I'm planning on having a few friends over for a little barbecue, and to celebrate my birthday. - It just started getting warm, so my pastor's going to make arrangements for us to go outside and have our church service out there. - Congratulations on your vaccination! - Thank you so much Allison for coming, and I appreciate everything that you did. - Thank you very much for helping me out. - My pleasure. - After dealing with so much death and pain and sorrow, seeing the relief and the joy on people's faces is probably, in my 35 years as a nurse or nurse practitioner, the most rewarding thing I've ever done.