asing a and clinical epidemiology as part of the CCB here. Based off of that training, I am now a nephrologist, which is a kidney doctor, an epidemiologist, and a hypertension specialist. All of my clinical time is spent seeing patients with hypertension, and all of my research effort is essentially surrounding hypertension or the relationship between the heart and the kidneys, also known as cardiorenal syndrome. In terms of my research and work at Penn Medicine, I do three main types of research. I do research with existing data sets that's called pharmacoepidemiologic research, and this is where I look at the relationships of different types of drugs with long-term outcomes in patients with high blood pressure or hypertension. In those studies, I try to use existing data sets either through the electronic health record or from previous really, really good quality trials where the data is publicly available, and I leverage these data sets to be able to understand what long-term exposure to different types of blood pressure medications means in terms of the long-term implications on the heart, the kidneys, and the brain. An example of a study that I've been working on in that space is trying to understand whether or not medications within a similar drug class that are slightly different called ACE inhibitors or angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin receptor blockers actually have similar long-term effects on the brain or if they work differently depending on the person in terms of their long-term effects on the brain. These two medications are the two most commonly prescribed medications for hypertension in the country. There are over 40 million prescriptions for these a year, and so you can imagine how important it is to have large-scale data to look at the effects of these over many decades as opposed to just being able to look at it in the short term like what we can usually do in trials. Additional research that I do is trials, but the trials that I do are to really understand the mechanisms of how these medications work. So I do what are called mechanistic trials, where I prescribe people medications usually in a random order where people don't know which medication they're getting to try to understand how different medications impact how blood pressure lowers in different individuals and then what the impact of that lowering of blood pressure is on different aspects of their other chronic diseases. An example of a recent trial that I did was looking at the management of high blood pressure in patients with something called heart failure with preserved ejection fraction. Almost every patient with this type of heart failure has hypertension, except we don't really have good data about how to treat their hypertension, and people are often prescribed a group of blood pressure medications that are very rarely used in the rest of the population only because those blood pressure medications happen to help people with different types of heart failure besides this type of heart failure. So I performed a trial where patients didn't know which type of medication they were getting, including that really common type of blood pressure medication prescribed in these patients compared to a different medication that's also really commonly used in other patients, but not in that population. I found that the medication that's not as commonly used in this group of patients actually is much more beneficial for lowering their blood pressure and for improving other aspects of their heart failure based off of specific measurements that we wouldn't be able to get in things like an electronic health record or in trials that were done for other reasons. And so that's why it was so important to do a trial to really understand the role of these medications in that population, and it's quite possible that these results will actually change the way that patients are prescribed medications with this type of disease in the future. Another example of the type of research that I do is called observational prospective research, and this is where we follow people long-term into the future to really understand the natural history of disease. I do work in that space looking at the long-term cardio-renal or heart and kidney effects of COVID-19, as well as work trying to understand the importance of how we measure blood pressure in different populations and the type of way that we measure blood pressure in terms of the device itself and whether we're actually performing the blood pressure measurements correctly. So why is my research important and how does it impact large-scale medical care patients? My research involves hypertension. Hypertension affects 120 million U.S. adults, so there's a really good chance that not just some people you know, but almost everyone you know over the age of 50 has hypertension. And really what I'm doing is trying to understand if we're treating the right patients with the right medications or if we should be really taking a step back and thinking more carefully about if certain medications work better in certain individuals. So that's a big part of what I do, and I think it has the potential to affect a huge number of people. The work I do with blood pressure measurement also could impact a lot of individuals because literally every single adult is recommended to undergo screening to determine if they have hypertension. And yet the way that we do that screening has a lot of flaws in it. There are a lot of issues in terms of the accuracy of the devices themselves, in terms of the accuracy of how people perform the blood pressure measurements, and in terms of even just getting people to actually treat people who have high blood pressure correctly. And so there's a lot of work to be done in that space and really understanding how better to measure and manage hypertension and how to get people to actually do it the right way. So the fact that this really could impact just about every single U.S. adult, I think, underscores the massive effect of this in the general population. So in the future, I plan to do a lot more work trying to understand which patients not just we should be treating with which medications, but who we should be taking medications away from also. Are there scenarios where we're over-treating people and removing medications could actually help them have better outcomes? Or are we removing medications too early in people who may benefit from more intensive treatments? I also plan to do a lot more work in the space of blood pressure measurements, as I was describing, both trying to understand how we can get people to do the right thing based on what we have already learned from really high-quality studies in the past, and also to identify ways to integrate these new blood pressure devices that are becoming widely available and other new technologies into how we manage hypertension effectively and responsibly. I'm doing this both in research and in national advocacy work. I have leadership roles in the American Heart Association and the American Medical Association, where I'm heavily involved in both identifying how to get the new science of hypertension out into the public's eye, and in identifying ways to make sure that we're using the most accurate devices and the most accurate ways to measure blood pressure possible.