Dehydration. It's an uncomfortable and sometimes dangerous condition that can leave you dizzy, weak, or even land you in the hospital. The good news is it's easily avoidable. I'm Dr. Jannine Darby from Pen Medicine, and I'm here to clear up some common myths about dehydration. Myth number one, everyone should drink eight glasses of water per day. This one is a fact. Our bodies are made up of about 60% water. So, it should come as no surprise that we need to stay hydrated in order to function properly. By staying hydrated, you can help to avoid headaches, assist with digestion, feel more energized, and so much more. Eight glasses a day is a good rule of thumb, but unless you carry a measuring cup with you all day, you may not know exactly how much that is. Think of a regular 2 L bottle of soda. If you fill that with water, that's how much you want to drink every day. I normally recommend that men drink a little bit more than this, but consider this your bare minimum for proper hydration. Keep in mind that other factors play a role in how much water you need. So, if you're very physically active or live in a hotter climate, you need to drink more. Myth number two, if your pee is clear, that means you're properly hydrated. That's right. We're going to talk about pee. And this myth is part fact, part fiction. It's true that the lighter your urine, the more hydrated your body is. However, clear urine means you're overdoing it. It's a sign that your body isn't retaining any water. So, what's coming in is just going right back out and it's flushing important minerals from your system. You should aim for pale yellow pee. That's the color of lemonade. Okay, enough of the pea talk. Myth number three, humidity makes you sweat more. This one is fiction. There's no science that says that we sweat more when it's humid out. The real difference is just in how we feel. In humid conditions, your sweat doesn't evaporate as easily due to the moisture that's already in the air. This leaves you feeling hotter and sweatier than you probably feel on dry days. So, if you are in a dry climate, dehydration can sneak up on you because you don't feel like you're sweating as much. No matter your climate, activity level, or any other factors, the bottom line is that staying well hydrated will help you feel better and stay healthy. So, always remember to keep a water bottle handy and drink up. To learn more about Pen Primary Care, visit our website and stay healthy out there.