Derek: About 10 years ago, I wasn't feeling too well, and I went to the doctor, and after a series of tests, my doctors found a large, grapefruit-sized tumor in my stomach. I went through chemotherapy, and the chemotherapy saved my life, but unfortunately, it killed my heart. They thought that maybe with medications, good diet, some exercise, we'd be able to manage my damaged heart. I would have bouts of feeling like I was in the 12th round of a heavyweight fight. I went in for a followup chest x-ray at my local GP, and as I'm waiting in the exam room, I collapsed. And at that point, my doctor, my cardiologist, walks into the room and he sees me, and he tries to pick me up. And so, he gets a blood pressure cuff and he starts trying to get a blood pressure on one arm and he can't do it. There's no blood pressure reading. So, he said, "All right. You're going to Penn now. Call a helicopter, call an ambulance. Whatever we've got to do, we're getting Derek to Penn." And walking in and meeting Dr. Jessup and her team and seeing the facility, I felt comfortable there. I trusted that the care they would give me would be my best chance at saving my life. And then when I woke up, the first thing I felt, the first thing I recognized, was my heartbeat. I'd been sick for so long that I'd forgotten that sometimes you feel a heartbeat pulsing through your body. I'm on the treadmill and I say, "Hey, Curt, can I go a little faster?" And he's like, yeah, I think you can manage it, so just don't overdo it. And so, for 30 seconds, I pick up the pace a little bit. I'm feeling good and I'm feeling something, but I don't know what it is quite yet. So, I keep jogging, and then Curt turns his back to talk to another patient for a moment, and so I picked up the pace again because I was afraid he was going to tell me to stop. And when I did, all of a sudden, my chest lifted up, my chin lifted up. I got goosebumps all over my arms and the back of my neck, and at that moment, all these memories of what it felt like to be healthy, to feel healthy, came flooding back into my mind, and I knew that all I wanted to do was get strong enough to feel more of that. Within 2012, I did 17 different endurance events. So, this year, 2013, just about a month ago, I finished my first full Ironman. It's a 2.4-mile swim to begin your day. I followed it with a 112-mile bike ride. You follow that with a full marathon, a 26.2-mile run. And you have to do it within 17 hours, or it doesn't count. And at the end, you cross the finish line, and they give you a medal and they say, "You are an ironman." My name is Derek Fitzgerald. I'm 40 years old, and I'm a heart transplant recipient who lives everyday like his donor is watching.