[♪♪♪] - Singing has always been almost a saving grace for me. If I can sing, I'll get better. I'll be better. I managed with medication, pills only. I kind of, was not the best patient or the most compliant. I think that I thought that whatever was going on with me was not that serious. I asked the young lady who drove me to work every day to stop at Penn Medicine so she could drop me off to go to the emergency room. I don't remember very much about that day except that I heard my husband crying for the first time in all the years that we have been together, and I think I understood then how crucial it was. - Linda has many health conditions that could adversely affect her outcome after a kidney transplant. She has diabetes, hypertension; she has heart disease, and these were conditions that she'd had for a long time. So, when we evaluated Linda, we made sure that she was seen by all the members of the team relevant to her care and the multidisciplinary team were able to come together and make her an optimal candidate for a transplant. - What encouraged me to begin to fight and pay attention was that they were paying so much attention to me. They were very open and honest about my condition as well as giving me information about the treatments that I would need in order to continue to live. The moment that I woke up after the operation... I was so happy and so filled with joy that I had a new lease on life. - Since her transplant she has gone out of her way to want to give back to the community, and that's something that we see in many other patients as well because they realize that they've been blessed to get a transplant and essentially get a second chance at a nice healthy life. Linda: I have a strong support system, my husband, my family and my children, but the greater support is the Penn Medicine system. - From the earliest time that I met Linda, I realized she was not only very spiritual, but she was a very giving person. Linda: Today I'm not just alive. I am thriving! I am thriving by the grace of God. I am thriving because I have a strong church presence that supports me and my family. I'm thriving because I am able to do things that I thought I'd never be able to do again. I sing because I'm happy, and I sing because I'm free.