- I've wanted to become a doctor since I was about eight years old. And I just remember looking up to many people who were physicians, and in particular, people who were surgeons. It seemed to me like they were able to make amazing changes in people's lives and actually hands-on changes. And for me, I was a hands-on kind of kid. My name is Oren Friedman. I am the Director of Facial Plastic Surgery here at Penn Medicine ENT. Doing surgery on someone's body is hidden by clothes, but the face stands out and I really wanted to challenge myself and that's what made me want to become a facial plastic surgeon. The main focus of my work really comes down to trying to make people happy. Whether patients are coming in for cosmetic reasons or they're coming in for reconstructive reasons, our job is to meld what they're seeing or what they're telling us they want with what that look is gonna ultimately be. Very commonly we see patients who come in after skin cancer resections and patients are often, in their eyes, deformed, and they want to go back into society as if nothing has changed. And so our role is to fix that patient to get them back to a place where they can re-enter society, as if nothing had happened. Patients are coming in for a facelift wanting to look younger. And so we can restore the position of their eyebrows, we can restore the youthful look of their eyelids, and we can restore the youthful appearance of their face, to make them look the way they actually feel inside, which is young and vibrant. And the truth of the matter is that plastic surgery, when done well, is done naturally. And the key is that after surgery, they don't look operated on. My personal approach to care and what I expect patients to come out of the visit feeling is that I really care for them. I want them to feel that we've refreshed and rejuvenated them and maybe turned the clock back 10-15 years for them, so that they can feel like they're re-entering their workplace and their family life, feeling more confident about themselves, and being able to take charge of their lives again.