I'm Ferman Garcia. I'm one of the electrophysiologist at the arythmia program at the University of Pennsylvania. Um, we work out of the University of Pennsylvania. Our main program, it's based at the hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. And um as part of being part of pen medicine, the arrhythmia doctors at Penn see patients here at Valley Forner and u as part of the educational sessions with this new facility here for I was asked to uh talk about atrial fibrillation and the and the topic that that was selected as a title was uh is it limiting your daily life and Um, what I'll do is I put some slides together to try to explain what atrial fibrillation is and what we do. And then obviously at the end I think it's easier to do that as the flow of the talk goes we can answer any questions and go back to slides if you wish to or what not. It's pretty simple and I'll go through it slowly so you can u uh take notes or whatn not. So the question that it's it's frequently asked is it limited your daily life and that's an important question because um atrial fibrillation could be an arhythmia like any other rhythm problems of the heart that you could have and don't have any symptoms. So the main thing that we brought in in most patients is when you have symptoms and it limits your daily life or your quality of life. And then obviously for hard doctors and especially for electrophysiologists in part because we treat a lot of arrhythmias that cause symptoms. The real question is does it have to limit your daily life? And clearly the answer to that is no. And I saw several patients today because I did an office day today here at Valley Forge and I had several patients who had had atrial fibrillation that I saw today and I asked one patient in particular to give me a quote. So just tonight uh that got treated for atrial fibrillation and this is what he told me. It is like being in human being again 100%. And that's what he used. So the answer to does it have to limit your daily life like with many other problems in medicine is no. What I will try to cover today and we can answer questions based on this is what is atrial fibrillation? What causes atrial fibrillation? How do we diagnose this arhythmias? What are the symptoms? Are there any dangers or any things that we need to worry about by having atrial fibrillation? And then finally, what are the options for treatment in a patient who has this condition? So what is AIB? And basically it's an arhythmia. An arhythmia is something that is not the normal rhythm of the heart that starts in the atrium and the heart has basically four chambers. The two chambers on the top are called the atrium and the two chambers on the bottom are called the ventricles. Atrial fibrillation it's basically a very irregular rhythm that is chaotic and beats in a very irregular fashion that happens in the top chamber of the heart. And basically what this diagram represents is a little picture of the atrium seen from behind. And this is the human atrium. It has veins and it has basically the big chamber of the atrium. The veins that come from the right side. And basically what happens instead of having regular rhythm, you have very irregular patterns of electrical activation. And this results in the loss of normal electrical activity. Now electrical activity has to happen first in the heart function before the mechanical activity. So if you lose the electrical activity, you lose kind of the orders to the heart to work in a regular fashion. So the regular activity that results from the loss of electrical activity makes the heart beat irregularly and pump irregularly and efficiently. is and the efficient of of heart pumping is lost. Basically what that results if you see an electroc cardiogram or you wear a monitor or whatn not is a rapid heartbeat that normally in a patient uh in normal rhythm is 60 70 or 80 beats per minute. It becomes very irregular. So you get a lot of irregularities in the way the heart goes. So it goes up from 60 to 80 to 110 to 120 could get up to 180 and then come down. So it's very irregular activation of the normal atrial activity. And why is this a problem? Because we are seeing like with many conditions in cardiovascular medicine an increase in the number of patients with atrial fibrillation. So this is kind of a classic um u um curve of the incidence of AIB that we I bring it to share with you and it may be um uh uh a frequent picture that it's used in every symposium in every meeting when people start talking about atrial fibrillation at every academic level in arythmia and cardiology meetings and that is the incidence of AIP. And basically what we know either because we're more aware of it or because there is an increase in the um uh population and aging is that as time goes by, we've seen an increase in the numbers of patients with atrial fibrillation estimated in 2010 basically in the 10 or 15 million range. One thing that we always also as doctors and internists and cardiologists like to make point is this thing here on the bottom which no matter what atrophy relation is or causes it. Like many other things in medicine, there are preventable things that we can do to prevent eventual cardiovascular disease. And before we go into details about specific treatments or ablation or whatn not the risk factor modification seems to be essential to the prevention of an epidemic of any cardiovascular condition. So it's uh for example hypertension and high blood pressure it's one of the main factors seen in patients with atrial fibrillation. So what I tell patients is it doesn't matter if you come here to see me to think about a procedure for atrial fibrillation but if you're walking around with a high blood pressure of 160 or 180 really no matter what I do you still will have risk to have atrial fibrillation. So there are things that need to be treated aggressively and as as interists and cardiologists we take this very seriously into consideration before we talk about the numbers and perhaps is something to be um uh aware of. What causes a fit? The short answer to that is we really don't know for sure what causes a fib. All we know it's an end result of electrical activity that is very regular. And there are many theories of why this happens. The most common explanation for this comes from the fact and this is how I put it to patients and what we know. The most common area that causes atrial fibrillation to happen comes from these areas here in the left side of the heart in the left atrium. They're called the pulmonary veins. And what we know it's around these pulmonary veins there is a lot of input from the autonomic nervous system. So the heart like the stomach like the colon like every organ. It's also in control with the brain. So there's nerve connections between the heart and the nervous system that controls your rapid heartbeat when you get excited and you exercise for example and then slows down. And those connections seems to be in the atrium around the veins. So around the veins that come in the vina and the pulmonary veins. The other thing that it's important with this is that the pulmonary veins are not part of the heart itself. They're part of the lungs. So they come into the heart and they get somehow glued into the heart. And that somehow it's all these little lines in here. These are muscle fibers that basically turn around the pulmonary veins and the heart to glue these veins together. They're part of the lung. They empty the blood that oxygenates in the lung into the left atrium. So it seems to be a conjunction of things uh that that predispose the particular areas and I'll show you a little picture in a while to make these areas the most important areas to cause atrial fibrillation. And then once you get these extra bits that trigger atrial fibrillation, the atrium itself starts to beat erratically and then usually either stops or continues. And we talk about that in a second. So, how is it diagnosed? Well, like with any arrhythmia that we see, you either will have symptoms or you will not. And we'll talk about the symptoms in a second. But in order to diagnose any arrhythmia, even though symptoms are important, we need to document the arrhythmia. So, we cannot tell anybody that they have, in this case, atrial fibrillation unless we see it in paper and paper means documentation and documentation can get acquired from monitors. So if you wear a halter or a trans teleophonic monitor what it does is looking at your heart rhythm bit to bit and either asymptomatically or symptomatically if you develop this arhythmia it gets recorded. It could also get recorded when you go to your doctor or if you have many symptoms and in an emergency room and an electroc cardiogram gets performed. It needs to be documented so we can tell it's atrial fibrillation. So most patients who have symptoms seek medical attention and then as we normally do we try to find documentation. So if you tend to have palpitations and you arrive at the doctor and you get an electrocarium that will be the diagnostic test at that point. If not, somehow we have to wear some sort of monitor until the day you develop the symptoms so you can document it. And that's important. And this is kind of how it looks. These are telemetry strips in a cardiac monitor. This is normal heartbeats. You can have extra bits. They're called PACs. And normally the atrial fibrillation start out of these extra heartbeats. We know these are hard bits because there are many reasons how we read EKGs. But basically this is where we talk about documentation. It's somehow some sort of recording of your heart electrical function when you develop the symptoms. And this is critical because we would not do interventions, medications or procedures unless we have documentation of the arrhythmia because the symptoms could be related to this or you could have this and have no symptoms. So we really need to document what we're talking about before we consider any treatment. That's essentially the diagnosis. You cannot say you have atrial fibrillation unless you see it. And what are the symptoms? Well, this is one of the challenging things about arrhythmias and included its atrial fibrillation is that you can have patients that are very symptomatic and you can have patients who have no symptoms at all and in between you have a very wide spectrum. When patients have symptoms, they usually complain of palpitations. And what palpitations is by definition is the awareness of your heart beating. So we are all sitting here and most likely we don't know our hearts beating. We're not thinking about it. We are unaware of our heart beating. Once you become aware that your heart is beating, that's the definition of palpitation. So anytime you have the symptom of an extra bit or your heart is beating fast or slow or you know you have your heart inside you have palpitations. So palpitations could be a symptom of atrial fibrillation that not necessarily all palpitations are atrial fibrillation. It's just a symptom. If you get to document that palpitations in an electroc cardiogram for example is atrial fibrillation then the reason for your palpitations are atrial fibrillation but they could be other arhythmias that are not atrial fibrillation and also cause the symptoms of palpitation. It's pretty much like pain. You can have pain with anything. So palpitation is the same. It just refers to to the heart. Dizziness it's a possible symptom when the heart rate beats too fast or too slow. So a common thing patients will say you're feeling fine out all of the sudden I start feeling my heart rate racising it goes very fast and I become laded and that's a frequent symptom for atrial fibrillation. Fatigue is something that we frequently seen in patients with fibrillation after particularly an episode of AIB and it terminates and goes back to normal rhythm. It can last few seconds or 10 minutes or 1 hour. Tend to describe this symptom of excessive fatigue. Some patients says we're off for the rest of the day. The day they had atrial fibrillation. Unclear why, but it's it's kind of frequent and common to see that dysnia. What does dysnia is? DNA is the sensation of shortness of breath, of difficulty breathing. It's a medical term and and and basically it means that either at rest or when you try to exert yourself you have excessive shortness of breath and this is very common with atrial fibrillation and the reason for that is because the hemodynamics and and the way the blood circulates in the heart goes from the top in the atrium to the bottom on the ventricle and then gets expulsed out into the circulation. If you lose that electrical squeezing function, then the blood kind of doesn't move the same way. And most likely with exertion, what happens is when you try to exercise and move more blood through the lungs and more blood through the heart, you're not able to do that. And the pressure goes up backwards. Backwards is the lungs. And that's why you have this sensation of shortness of breath because the pressure in the lungs is a little bit higher. and you have this sensation of difficulty breathing. Usually if the arrhythmia resolves in a few hours or minutes, it all depends. Things kind of go back to normal and that sensation goes away. So again, it's not infrequent in between parenthesis and here says HF. What that mean is heart failure symptoms. So patients who have dysfunction of the heart and have heart failure, the most common symptom is that it's like if the sump pump doesn't work at home, you accumulate water in the basement. The same thing is the analogy with the heart. It's kind of a sump pump. If it doesn't work well hemodynamically, you accumulate water in your lungs. Most patients with heart failure symptoms have this sensation of difficulty breathing which is very difficult to distinguish from the difficulty breathing in patients without heart failure symptoms. In fact, it's exactly the same symptom. The difference is that once you have these symptoms and we go and look at your heart function and characteristics of structurally your heart, if everything checks out normal, usually if you have these symptoms are due to an arhythmia, in this case atrial fibrillation are completely reversible by treating the arhythmia. But it's very difficult to distinguish. So when we hear patients that have difficulty breathing, especially with exertion, we take it very seriously because it's very difficult at the beginning just by talking without doing physical exam and other things to distinguish between heart failure symptoms and not heart failure symptoms could be exactly the same. And then finally in between other things is synopy. And what syncopy means it's passing out, losing consciousness and postural tone and ended in the floor for example. It is very unlikely for this arrhythmia by itself to cause these types. In fact, one of the things I tell patients all the time is that atrial fibrillation is not one of these rhythms that are likely to cause sudden cardiac death. So it's very very unusual that somebody with an otherwise normal structural heart will die because of atrial fibrillation. It's very very unlikely. That being said, there are particular settings that because the heart rate is too fast or for the treatment of the atrial fibrillation as a side effect, the heart rate becomes too slow. Patients could feel like they're going to pass out. But passing out only because of atrial fibrillation and the difference between passing out and waking up it's syncopy and passing out and not waking up is sudden cardiac death is very unlikely to be caused by atrial fibrillation alone. So even though it's a fear of it it's very unlikely to be there. Now, if ever happens, we take it very seriously because it might be a red flag that something else is going on since we know that atrial fibrillation itself is unlikely to cause this problem. And I put three little dots there because after this you could name it and it could be a symptom of atrial fibrillation, you know, a little bit of chest discomfort, chest pain. I mean uh you could put symptoms here and I talk to patients and we talk to patients all the time and as I said there's the patients who are very symptomatic that have a lot of shortness of breath there's the patients who have no symptoms and this gets diagnosed as an incidental finding they went to their doctor for a routine checkup we hear this all the time they get their pulse it's irregular primary care physician says let's get an electroc cardiogram or go and check an electroc cardiogram oh by the way you are in atrial fibrillation Well, you didn't know about it and that happens a lot of times. So, asymptomatic, very symptomatic and anywhere in between. It's a very wide spectrum of symptoms. So, I know that doesn't help you a lot, but that's the reality. We see this all the time. But this is very important because I'll tell you in a second. What are the dangers or are there any dangers of untreated atrial fibrillation? And that will take us into the treatment a little bit. Before we go that when I talk to patients I like to to make this distinction and so you know this distinction that I will make here in the classification of atrial fibrillation is the same classification we use again as physicians as diagnosis AIB in meetings in research trials it's all the same so I'm not giving you anything that we don't use every day it's exactly the same things that we would talk so you know you will learn the language of of this arhythmia So there's three main groups of atrial fibrillation and they seem to have implications. There is the group of patients with paroxismal atrial fibrillation and what this means is that the arrhythmia happens starts you either know it or you don't but within seven days usually within 48 hours it esppontaneously reverts back to normal rhythm. So when you are in an abnormal rhythm and you go back to normal rhythm in medical terms that's called cardioversion. So basically what this means is spontaneously the rhythm reverts back to normal and usually this becomes important and this distinction is very important if it's recurrent. Why? The reason why recurrent becomes important when decisions are made about atrial fibrillation is that you can have one episode of atrial fibrillation and I don't know if you're ever going to have it again. It's pretty much like flipping a coin 5050 chance you're going to have it again. So for the management if we see a patient who have first episode of atrial fibrillation I usually don't go crazy. I said, "Look, I think that we'll talk about some things like stroke prevention, but if this is the first time it happens, I don't know if it's going to happen again. It might not happen again, but if you have high blood pressure, take care of it. If you have sleeping disorders, for example, sleep apnnea seems to be very related to high blood pressure and atrial fibrillation. Treat that and we'll see if it happens again, then it's more than once. And for any arrhythmia, we usually wait unless it's something very dangerous that would compromise the life. But if it's something that would not cause sudden death, we don't do things with the first episode. We wait to see if it happens again because it might not happen again or it might not happen again until 10 years. So we usually don't make rush decisions about treatment with one episode. So usually you wait for a recurrent episode. If the arhythmia lasts more than seven days and you're in it all the time again either you know it or you don't and in order to revert you into normal rhythm that as I said a cardio version you need to administer a medication or perform a cardio version which we'll talk about that in a second an external electrical carrier version basically shock we give a shock to the heart and return it to normal rhythm usually that's called persist distant and this is an important distinction because one thing we know it's a b gets more AIB. So if you ever had some atrial fibrillation as you have more atrial fibrillation chances are you will have more atrial fibrillation. So in a way persistent it's considered like a more advanced stage of paroxismal atrial fibrillation. So if you have one or two episodes and now you have it and it doesn't go away on its own, it's considered that you probably had had the other one for much longer time than you think and now you're locked into it all the time. And then there are patients for whatever reason come and they've been in AIB for more than a year. And when we see that it's also an important distinctions and we call them longstanding persistent and the important distinctions here as we'll talk in a second is for treatment. The treatment of paroxismal patients is pretty straightforward and they seem to do much better with any interventional strategy that patients who've been in AIB for two or three years. And the reason is because as you are in AIB, imagine your atrium beating at 500 beats a minute constantly. Now you might not feel it. That doesn't mean your heart rate is 500. You cannot live with a heart rate of 500. But the atrium can do whatever it wants. Okay? And as it does that, the atrium can get larger and larger and larger. And if it gets larger, it gets used to a fib and it doesn't go back on its own. So as it get larger, it's also more difficult for us to do anything that will work down the line. Permanent is when at some point you decide that you've been in AIB forever or we don't know for how long has been in AI put you an example of sometimes patients come in and I say well I am referred to be evaluated for a fib but I don't feel bad and then it's kind of an you know an investigational work to find out how long you've been in a well I got an electroc cardiogram six months ago well when was the Last time you saw a doctor yeah you know five years ago were you in a well I don't know they didn't do an electroc cardio so then we go back have you had any procedures have you been seen if you had a procedure you were in the hospital so were you in normal rhythm or in aib sometimes it's very difficult to decide how long you've been in AIB sometimes it's very easy and sometimes as a patients don't feel anything commonly can stay in a for long periods of time and not even know it if that happens for a long time It's considered a permanent chronic condition and in the absence of symptoms the main treatment is to prevent bad things from happening. And what are the bad things from happening? Well, the most common thing that we see and the main reason why we push to do things it's quality of life. If I have a patient that cannot exercise or cannot have a cup of coffee or a glass of wine because they're very concerned that they'll have AIB or they basically have AIB every day and they have heart rates. That's clearly and this been documented in many studies when they do quality of life questionnaires. You feel a quality of life questioner that have a bunch of questions decreases quality of life. So if you have a problem that decreases quality of life, our main goal would be to improve that and treat quality of life and symptoms. As I said before, and we'll talk about this a little bit more in detail, there's no bad things that can happen in terms of sudden death. And what I tell patients, the two bad things that happen with atrial fibrillation is number one, you feel bad. Number two, there is risk for a stroke. And I think if the main thing to take over from AIB is you don't want bad things to happen. You want to improve your quality of life. And for patients, the worst thing that can happen is a stroke, especially if it's preventable. So the main risk for AIB stroke, why does that happen there? And I'll show you pictures. There's two little structures in the atrium. They're called appendages. They're like little ears, sacks that who knows why we have them. They're made there embryologically. Maybe 100 years from now they'll go away because it seems like the only function they can play is to create clots in a fib and have a stroke because they don't do anything else. But we have them and what happens is normally when the atrium is contracted, blood circulates very well. If blood circulates, it cannot clot. But if the atrium is not contracting, the appendages just sit there and blood doesn't circulate. If blood doesn't circulate, there is a risk that that blood can clot. And if it clots inside of the heart, it can break off. Now, it's not like a big thing is going to break off. The problem is that a little thing that breaks off can go to the brain and can cause a little thing, a little clot can cause a stroke. So the reason is that the atrium is not moving and the blood's not circulating. So one of the main treatments for atrial fibrillation and probably I think the main things for aib that we have a responsibility as physicians is to prevent strokes and we will talk about that in a second on how to do that. There's some studies that especially if you have heart failure and you get a fit. So this is an important thing because atrial fibrillation and many arrhythmias are electrical disorders. That's why we are electricians. We're electrophysiologists can happen in an perfectly normal structural heart. So your home can be perfect and it has a short circuit. That doesn't mean anything else wrong with it. It's just a short circuit. The same thing happened with arhythmias. You can have many arrhythmias with a perfectly normal structural heart. What happens is and one of the reasons why we see so much AIB is that if you have an abnormal structural heart, so you have a prior heart attack, heart failure, a thick muscle, a weak heart, etc. The most common arhythmia, it's atrial fibrillation. So most patients that have heart failure, if they develop atrial fibrillation, they become very symptomatic. So atrial fibrillation in this setting could potentially increase mortality because there is an underlying structural heart disease that seems to be affected by the development of atrial fibrillation. We're not sure if one causes one or the other. Somewhere in between perhaps usually the AIB alone doesn't cause anything bad to happen in terms of mortality. But there's some data and I put it there because why do we worry? Well, if we can make a heart failure patient live longer, for example, it's worth treating the atrial fibrillation. How do you treat it? Well, there are several steps into treat atrial fibrillation and I will go through each one of them. You have heard and if you have experienced atrial fibrillation, one of the main things that you will hear your physician saying is say, "All right, let's do a cardio version." What is a cardio version? Well, a cardio version just means that we're reverting your normal rhythm back into normal rhythm. That's all it means. We took a patient with atrial fibrillation that has not stopped on its own after 24 or 48 hours. And we are going to restore normal rhythm. The way to restore normal rhythm is to reset the electrical circuits in the heart. So we put couple of pads. We tell anologist to come and give you conscious sedation just like you would get if you have a colonoscopy or any other procedure and then threw it outside the fibrillator just like the ones you see in the airport and just like the ones that in every physician's hospital environment. We set up the defibrillator and we tell it shock the heart at 100 jewles or 200 juwles. What that does is shocks the electrical system and reverts it back to normal and then you cardiovert the heart from aib to sinus rhythm or to normal rhythm. That alone is a treatment strategy. The question is will the aip come back? And this is a slide that it's used again in every meeting and I don't see why not show this to you. So you know if you were to have atrial fibrillation and you get a car version and you don't do anything else you don't do nothing else but a car version and this is frequently a firstline strategy because as I told you we don't know if it's going to come or not and it's like flipping a coin. When I said flipping a coin, I meant that literally if you don't do anything else, there's around 50% chance that within a year a will come back. And what I tell patients is, well, you don't know if you're going to belong to the 50% is going to come back or the 50% that is not going to come back. So, might as well just do this and see what happens. And that is the data. Now the other thing that we know as time goes by once you have an episode of atrial fibrillation there is more likely and this is what this curve shows this is number of patients and years arrhythmia free survival once you get diagnosed with it within two years there is at least a 70% chance you'll have another episode again if you belong to the 30% ch team that is not going to have it you're fine We don't know that. So we usually wait for more than one episode. We don't make chronic decisions based on one episode. Let's keep that. The second thing that's important is decision of anti-coagulation. And we want to prevent strokes. And this is a complicated slide, but I'll take you through it so you understand how we make this decision. Again, this is medical slides and I'm showing them to you so you know how we think. And these are the specific questions we're going to ask a patient with atrial fibrillation when they come to see us for the first time in order to prevent a stroke. How do you prevent a stroke? The only way to prevent strokes with blood thinners right now and I will show you some things we're working on. But right now is for blood thinners. So if you think about it, if you give every patient with atrial fibrillation blood thinner, so let's say you're 20 years old, you come with AIB, we give you a blood thinner. What's the problem with that? Well, the problem is that doesn't mean that if you have AIB, you will have a stroke. In fact, I'll show you the risk is not that high. And if you take medications that are blood thinners specifically drugs like warpherin or cumin and then there newer anti-coagulation drugs that we could discuss called um divatan the generic name is prax I'm sure you've seen it in the TV etc. Every time you take these drugs there is a risk for bleeding. So what I explain patient is like a balance. What is the risk of bleeding versus the risk of a stroke and you go against the one that is the highest. So if your risk of bleeding it's very high. There's no sense to prevent a 2% stroke per year rate because you have a risk of bleed on 50%. I cannot give you a medication that will make you bleed. But if the risk of bleeding is low and the risk of stroke is high, you should take a blood thinner. And that decision and forget about this side of the slide because this is what's used in Europe. We sometimes think about it but we don't use it. It's this is we ask basically five questions to decide who takes and who don't or who takes warfare or who takes prodax and that is based on studies and and this is the accepted guidelines. If you have history of heart failure, that give you one point. If you have history of high blood pressure, that give you one point. If you are more than 75 years old, that give you one point. If you have diabetes, that give you one point. If you ever had a stroke before or a mini stroke, that's what a TIA is, transient eskeemic attack, a mini stroke, then you get two points. And the reason why you get two points is because if you have atrial fibrillation and you had one stroke, basically you're playing with the chance of getting another one. You don't want to wait for a second one. So that doubles the score. And these five factors is what we use when we decide. And what has been seen by looking at these factors, if you have none of these risk factors, your chance of a stroke is 2%. And if the chance of bleeding from cumin it's let's say 2% they equal each other why would you take it? So somebody who has none of these risk factors, doesn't have diabetes, doesn't have hypertension, is less than 75, has a normal structural heart and never had a stroke. We said, well, you risk a stroke is very low. And that's why I also say patients, I never say there is no risk of a stroke. It's very low. It's less than 2%. It's not zero. Have we ever seen a patient who have a stroke without risk factors? I have but it's very low that don't favor they use blood thinners. So we take an aspirin for example. Now if you have all the risk factors you have diabetes hypertension you're more than 75 year old you had a prior stroke and you have um uh an abnormal heart. Basically you bought all the tickets to have a stroke in the setting of atrial fibrillation. That is the other extreme. is 20%. That's really high. So you definitely should be treated and then it's somewhere in between. The point of decision for most interventions in cardiovascular medicine is 3%. So if you have one point that means you have high blood pressure or diabetes or heart failure or you had um um more than 75 years old only one point we tend only to recommend aspirin and not full blood thinners. If you have two or more points that it's more than 3% risk as I said 3% seems to be the point in which an intervention makes a difference in big groups of patients then we tend to recommend anti-coagulation. So if you have hypertension and you are 76 or you have diabetes and hypertension or you have hypertension and something else or you had a prior stroke that's two points right there we tend to recommend the use of blood thinners. So that decision is made on a risk factor. Not everybody with atrial fibrillation needs anti-coagulation. That's an important thing to know. How do you treat the atrial fibrillation? Basically depends on on what decision is made. And and there are three options. There are the patients who are left in atrial fibrillation and you just prevent a stroke. That it's rate control. you're lift atrial fibrillation, you just make sure your heart rate is not fast because fast is bad. That's the only thing we know for patients who don't have symptoms. And there was one study done for that in which they took patients and they basically um it's uh these studies it's it's favor the rate control and basically what that means is if you had no symptoms and you're more than 75 years old and you had a basically what you need to do is make sure you don't have a stroke and keep your heart rate is low and it seems to be enough if you don't have symptoms and that's very important that's why I said symptoms so much the first part of the talk because no trial includes patient with symptoms not to do anything because that would be crazy if you have symptoms basically we tell you just suffer with it. So no patients with symptoms are left alone. If you don't have symptoms and then there's some data that you just need to slow the heart rate and prevent a stroke and you're good. Then there are the patients that we decide to revert them into normal rhythm and then there are two strategies for that. There are medications and the medications are decide based on different conditions but basically they are specific anti-ythmic drugs. They're usually just administered by cardiologists and electrphysiologist. There are many of them. I put some names there because you might hear draineron, fleconite, propapanon. They have generic names and brand names. Basically, what these drugs are is they try to prevent the aphib from coming back. So once you're in normal rhythm and you had had a before, we say just like the cardio version, we stop that episode, but the cardio version itself is not preventing it from coming back. So the question is how do we suppress these extra bits from coming back? Well, there are medications that can suppress the electrical system. They're called anti-ythmic drugs. So one first line therapy is to use an anti-ythmic drug to prevent the events from coming back. The problem with that is that they can have side effects. This is a classic drug that we tend not to use too much. This is amoron and and if you read the package insert and this is one of the problems that we interventional electrophysiologists have with drugs is that these drugs don't cure the atrial fibrillation. These drugs prevent it from coming back. That means you have to take the drugs forever so it doesn't come back. It's not like an antibiotic. You took it, it's cured, forget it. you're done. When we talk about drugs for atrial fibrillation, you're talking, okay, now we're going to start you on a medication. You're going to take it and you're going to keep taking it and if it works and you don't develop side effects, now you're taking it forever. If you don't want the atrial fibrillation to come back. So, this is assuming again you have symptoms. But if you look at one of the worst drugs, which is one of the best drugs to prevent atrial fibrillation, in fact, it's the most effective one. But if you look at the package insert, it says, "What is the most common information I should know about Amiodoron?" This is the brand name tablets. It says, "Can serious side effects that can lead to death, including lung damage, liver damage, worst heartbeat problems, thyroid problem. Call your medical doctor right away if you develop any of these symptoms." So when we talk about drugs, they're not necessarily safe or good, especially taken into consideration if you have to take it for long term. Nevertheless, they're the first treatment for AIB. And right now based on guidelines on what we do, usually we consider one antirethic drug before we do anything else. This is the extreme. This is the drugs that have the most side effects. I'm not bringing this to scare you. I use some urine a lot of times. It's just that this is one of the problems with these medications. The second problem with the medications is that if you look at all the different drugs, this is a little line for drugs in months and what is the free interval from atrial fibrillation. So there is no single drug that is more than 50 or 60% effective. Not even the new ones are better than that in multiple medical trials. Again, the reason why we consider them is because if you are the patient who works, it might be easy to take a medication. And I have many patients who would rather take medications that consider anything else. So, if you are somebody who likes or doesn't mind taking a medication, then that's fine because you're not a procedure person, for example. And that decision it's up ultimately to the different options that are played and that's why we try them. The reality is that even if you try them they don't necessarily are effective and that's when procedures come. So when drugs fail and we usually in our practice try one anti-riythmic medication if it fails we have a discussion about what else to do especially in the highly symptomatic patient our ablation procedures. Now I'm an electrophysiologist. I do catheter ablation. If you are a surgeon, there are surgical procedures that are done with surgery and that is called surgical ablation. It falls into the same category except that the procedures are different. They're more invasive that what we do with catheterss. And I only reason I put this here as catheter ablation. It's because that's what we do in all fairness to your options. Surgical ablation would fall into that category also. And then there's some centers that do more ablation than other. And the reason why we know this works and this is not meant to be a very complex slide, but I told you about those pulmonary veins. This is an angography of a pulmonary vein. We inject D back in the 90s. This was discovered in France. And these guys were doing this very interesting research. They discover that 90% of atrial fibrillation episode is start inside of the pulmonary veins and that gay to what we do today 20 years almost 15 years after. So even these procedures haven't been around for that long. We we've learned a lot in a short period of time. But these guys in France discovered that people with atrial fibrillation where they put an electrical catheter and these are the electrical signals inside of these anatomical structures 90% of the initiation bits that cause atrial fibrillation come from the pulmonary veins. And that's why when we go and do these procedures where we're looking at is at electrically eliminating the connection between the pulmonary vein and the heart. And the main procedure for atrial fibrillation is called pulmonary vein electrical isolation or PVI. And that's when you read about this in the internet or anywhere else. Most of the definitions based for this ablation and based on the elimination of disconnections between the veins and the heart. And this is just so you know how we look at things. And I am not going to go into details. This is a slide that it's a medical slide. But but this it's how we actually work. We're not imagining these things. We actually have very good imaging technology nowadays that is available to us and we can take with CAT scans beautiful pictures of the atrium. So this is the atrium and then we put recordings inside of the pulmonary veins and record this electrical anatomy and then by doing lesions in a circular fashion with different technologies catheterss or balloon or whatn not we eliminate these electrical connections. So if the pulmonary vein decides to try to go into a fib again, well guess what? Now it cannot talk to the heart. So it cannot cause atrial fibrillation and that's the concept and that's where we are now. And we have multiple imaging methods and what we do is we go around the pulmonary veins. So these are the pulmonary veins. This is a cat scan of a patient with atrial fibrillation that we did a procedure in our laboratories. And these are the big pulmonary veins. There usually four of them, one for each side of the lung. So the left superior lung, the left inferior, the right superior and the right inferior that drain blood into the heart and we measure the electrical potentials and go around them and burn them. In fact, there is a lot of technology involved with this. This is a snapshot of how a big screen and laboratory looks when we're doing this procedure. We have an echo cardiogram constantly recording electrical signals. This is how this goes flowing in terms of electrical signals. And you see how these signals were kind of disappearing slowly. You see this is some firing. And as we go ablating, we're looking at how the catheter moves inside of the heart. These signals start to disappear. And as they disappear, it also goes away the ability to have atrial fibrillation. So this is kind of a lot of technology involved into a program like this to get all the potential modalities to to do this. And then the question is well what's the difference with medications? How much does this work compared to an anti-ythmic drug? Because if you guys are going to put patients through a procedure my first question would be are you guys better than an anti-ythmic drug. So certainly to be honest it's not that difficult because you only need to be better than 50% but you would hope that you're much better than that and this is kind of our experience over time and one important factor here which I told you at the beginning for different reasons is to differentiate between paroxismal and persistent and the reason is because the outcome in all series of patients with atrial fibrillation is different and it seems to be that AIB gets more AIB. So what I tell patients once they are paroxismal it's the right time to do this earlier and so as we go guidelines are moving more and more forward to do procedures and to try to cure atrial fibrillation at an earlier stage rather than a later stage because the outcomes for ablation are much better if you do it while you're in atrial fibrillation and are able to get out of it. So your paroxismal rather if you're an AIB for one year or two years and the success rate I don't want you to look at the 95% or 100%. If anybody tells you that they do atrial fibrillation and you're 100% cure with one procedure I would suggest that you go and see somebody else because it doesn't happen. Okay, this is the important column right here which is having atrial fibrillation and this is probably two years old and we have much newer technology and newer things that we're doing but overall a good program that does atrial fibrillation ablation and after the ablation you look at your outcomes of anti-ythmic drugs. That's very important because I could do an ablation and keep you on anti-ythmic drugs and the success rates could be 90%. But the reality is that if you're doing this, you're trying to not take the anti-ythmic drugs. So what is the success rate of anti-ythmic drugs? And this is I have another slide but I wear this because it's a nice differentiation for the truth is somewhere around 85% success rate for one procedure for atrial fibrillation and be completely off anti-ythmic drugs is now what best centers looked at and that's very important because I'm very clear with patients like this is not a procedure that if you get it done you 100% you're done with it. It's like having an appendix removed. You got it out, that's it. You will never have appendicitis again. That's not how it happens with this. And the reason is because of the technology we have now. When we go back for a second times in that 15 20% of patients will have a again things that will look perfect at the end of the procedure come back. They heal too well. And the same areas that cause a fib before cause a again. Now, we've learned over the last 15 years how to do a better job, how to do other new things. We use very novel methods for breathing and respiration during the procedure to improve catheter contact. We use newer technologies for ablation and we are involved in a lot of research. There are things that maybe are better. Nothing has been proven yet which are for example cryob balloon or laser balloon. We are part of these trials and we work to try to things better right now. Uh nothing seem to be better of what we're doing as of today. But we're certainly participating a lot on these technologies. You will hear about centers having stereotaxes and remote navigation because one of the bigger centers in a world was in Italy and there was a guy there who did a lot of work with with this. We have these systems again they seem to be favorable but nothing to increase above 85% success rate in one procedure. So all these things are interesting but have not given you that extra 5% and we're still working on looking at these things and how to make them better. We actually work every day to do that and we have every tool to do that but that's the reality. It's much better than medications or for symptomatic patients is the proper thing. But you might require two procedures to get better than 85% of cure for atrial fibrillation. And that's something that's important in 2011 to understand. It might be different one or two years from now, but right now that's the way it looks. One thing that we're working on that would be very interesting in the future just to bring you a taste of how things could happen is alternative things to prevent a stroke. And this is what I was talking about. We all have this ear in the left atrium. It's called the left atrial appendage. And what happens is the blood goes into here and and gets clotted and then it can break off into the atrium and go to the circulation. So the main state right now and the standard of care for prevention of a stroke if you have an indication is to take a blood thinner. So the other couple or or or actually three different company devices to close the left atrial appendage. There's preliminary data that this could be a very good option as an alternative to cumin. So you might be very well see that in a few years perhaps this is what we're going to be talking instead of taking lifelong cumin. Right now it's just at a stage of FDA approval and clinical trials. I'm part of the I'm one of the investigators for for these trials and we are part of all these trials at at the University of Pennsylvania and it may be very well one thing to consider. So when I see patients for one reason or another most important thing is a stroke prevention. we discuss these alternative therapies because it may be something that particular patient might benefit from. So in summary, if you think you have a fib, you cannot tell you have a fib unless it's documented. There needs to be documentation into an electroc cardiogram, a transfic monitor, some sort of cardiac rhythm recording before you can make the right diagnosis. The symptoms are mostly what drive treatment of decision strategies. So the symptoms are what makes decisions in terms of what to do next and that's very important. That being said, stroke prevention, it's a major thing in atrial fibrillation. So prevented bad things from happening. In my opinion, worst thing that can happen in a patient with AIB is a stroke. So we concentrate a lot on trying to prevent this from happening. Then for the rhythm and the symptoms itself heart rate control certain small number of patients it's a strategy most common it's restoration of normal rhythm and maintenance of normal rhythm. So not only put you back into normal rhythm but how to prevent it from coming back because we don't want to be doing carversions every three days. It's very not practical to say the least. Um and for that we can use multiple different anti-ythmic medications or procedures that are ablation procedures either catheter ablation procedures technologies like balloons and things like that that again have not proven to be better in my opinion than what we do nowadays with catheterss or in some cases surgical ablation depends on the experience of the center and the operator. There's some data that surgical ablation could be useful. Again, the difference is having a procedure with catheterss from the groin versus incisions in the chest and the recuperation that takes from a surgical procedure versus a catheter procedure. In our experience, for example, if you have a catheter procedure, you go home next day. Uh surgical procedure will certainly not be like that and it's not better one or the other. In fact, catheter ablation has much more data than surgical ablation. And that's why we do most procedures in an AIP group at University of Penn with catheterss and with surgery. But in any case, you might hear about this. That's why I just wanted to bring it up so you know the different options and everything that could be done for a terms of slides and I open it to discussion and any questions.