Penn's Way Penn's Way! Penn's Way is Penn and UPHS's annual charitable giving campaign. It combines the university and the health system, and it's an opportunity for us to pool our collective resources. We take time to pick charities and resources that we feel like our community needs. Last year, Penn's Way raised 1.5 1.5 1.5 million dollars. This year, we're trying to up the ante a little bit. We plan to raise 1.6 1.6 1.6 million dollars through Penn's Way. As Penn Medicine employees, we're dedicated to saving individual's lives, and one thing that we find is the saving of lives doesn't just happen within Penn Medicine and our hospitals, but it stretches well beyond the university and the health system. We're the largest private employer in the city of Philadelphia, and why shouldn't we be the leader in the campaigns? And we are. It's good to know that I work for an organization that cares so much. You can find something that really impacts you, something that you're passionate about, maybe something that's impacted your family. Whether it's health, whether it's safety, whether it's education. I'm donating to an animal shelter. I'm donating to autism awareness, a fund for working dogs, veterans, anti-violence, food charity, organizations that help children, suicide prevention awareness in the greater Philadelphia area. Penn's Way has been running for a long time now, and we've been able to make a lot of change, but there's still a lot of change that needs to happen within this world. If we join our forces and everyone pitches in, there's power in numbers, and we can effect the most change. It's so important that everyone gets involved. A dollar from 10,000 people is 10,000 dollars, so any amount counts. If you can only give five dollars, give five dollars. Donate Donate! Donate today! Donate through Penn's Way. Donate through Penn's Way! Join us! You can make a difference make a difference in your community your community through Penn’s Way through Penn’s Way. Good girl!  Good girl.