(soft music plays) - I've been a long distance runner my entire life. I've run several marathons, including the Boston Marathon in 1998, so I had a pretty good idea how my body should respond to exercise, and it was during these runs that I noticed a decrease in my ability to breathe and exercise at at the pace I I was normally would do that, and at certain points I actually had to stop to catch my breath, and that was the rarity for me, and that was the first sign that something was wrong and I needed that investigated. So I had it checked out and it turned out that I needed double bypass surgery, which Sato preformed, and then most recently was the aortic valve replacement two years ago. I remember on the exam table, the roll of paper that they have, he tore off a piece of that paper, and sketched out the heart, all the arteries leading to it, explained to me first hand what he was gonna do, how he was gonna do it, and if you were to ask Sato, I'm sure he would say that I would come in with a list of questions and some of them were off the wall, but they were questions important to me. He would take the time to answer them. When I first set up the surgery at Penn, a lady by the name of Terri Ryan called me and identified herself as a patient advocate, a liaison with the hospital. When I first met her, she walked up to me. She said, "I'm gonna be your best friend over the next few weeks," and that turned out to be a correct statement, she really was. I remember coming out of anesthesia, and as I opened my eyes, I see my wife standing at he foot of the bed, my two sons, and Terri Ryan. She was right there, and her smile was as big as my family members', so that meant a lot to me and my family. The most important thing that I take away from the care I received at Pennsylvania Hospital is obviously there's a lot of processes in place to take care of everything that has to be taken care of, but processes don't replace people, and the people at Pennsylvania Hospital is what I most remember about my stay there. It didn't feel like they were performing a job. It felt like they actually cared about me and my health, my recovery. My first run was about thirty-six days after my surgery. It was only about half a mile, but it was the start of many miles after that. I'd like to thank Penn Medicine and Sato and the surgical team for allowing me to continue in the lifestyle that I've grown accustomed to, to all the activity, and for taking the worry out of my mind and then the mind of my family, when I go out and do all these exercise, that everything has been taken care of, everything's working fine. To this day, I still go back and I see those people and thank them because we had a very good experience. (soft music plays)