Marilyn: I'm a very active person. Very difficult for me to sit still. I started dancing and that changed my life. I was using my body in a way I had never used before, and at a certain age, when one is no longer 20, it becomes a challenge. I started to feel little sensations, my body saying "Hello, I'm here. I really need you to slow down." But I did not listen to my body. I wanted to dance. That was my focus. I tried acupuncture. I tried massage. I tried all the creams and the ointments and the potions and lotions, and nothing really worked. Pain changes one's life. We live with it. It grows inside little by little by little, or it's powerful. By the end of three years, the pain was so great and it was hampering my lifestyle and making me think whether I could continue to dance. When I walk through the doors at Penn, I know I'm in the best care. Meeting with Dr. Israelite for the first time, I was nervous myself, and I set the tone by saying, "Before we even talk, know that I am a dancer and I will continue to dance" and he said, "I can fix you. I can take care of you." And I liked that he was so committed to his work. It was his passion to fix, to give someone back the movement. It was not about business. It was about caring for me as an individual, respecting my life and my desire and my input. He was listening as well as guiding me, and his support team was remarkable. Everyone there wanted to get me back dancing. They saw my drive. They made me feel like yes, I can do this. From the moment I got out of the bed, right after surgery, I did not take pain pills. I did not take Tylenol. I just felt better. Within three months, I was back on the competitive floor, and by the fourth month, I was out and taking first places in competitions. And the judges could not believe that I had just had a hip replacement. My first competition after surgery, after going through the whole process of the rehab, I was nervous. I thought, oh, please, leg, just work, just no pain. That's all I wanted, and I stepped out onto the floor with my partner, and it was a magical moment. My legs were working, my body was working. And as we danced, I gained more and more in my stride and it felt like I was flying. Everyone that I came in contact with at Penn, all of the docs, all of their support team, everyone, I felt like I was dancing for them. My life, a life in motion, is worth Penn Medicine.