So honestly, I started out as a scientist and I felt like I was really meant for the bench for my whole life. But my older brother was a medical student actually here at Penn and I came and visited him and I realized that the people who are in medical school were actually a great bunch of people to be around. I also found out about the MD PhD program. So I thought, you know what, I can still be a scientist if I can be a physician scientist. My name is John Plsteris. I'm a radiation oncologist and I currently serve as the chief of radiation oncology and proton therapy at Penn Presbyterian Medical Center at Penn Medicine. The patients that I feel like I have the most expertise in are those with blood cancer. So hematologic malignancies. So that includes lymphoma, leukemia, multiple myyoma, and that's where I've had the most opportunity to learn really from the national group about the really nuanced details in treating those patients with radiation therapy. It's a pretty niche area and so it's one of those areas where I have sort of some special expertise. I also have been treating uh gastrointestinal cancers uh my entire career. The patients who I treat with blood cancer probably the most typical uh patient is someone with a lymphoma and lymphas can really vary in how aggressive they are. So they can be very indolent lowgrade diseases and this ranges to more aggressive lymphas including large bell lymphas. The area that we've had the most expansion in recently are those patients with large bell lymphomas who are going on to get cartis cell therapy. And we've found that using radiation during the manufacturing period of cartis cell therapy has been an interesting way of using radiation to help make that overall cartisel process work better. So there are a few really interesting things in the field of radiation oncology. So number one, proton therapy is really becoming more mainstream and we do feel like there's a chance to treat more and more patients with proton therapy, which really is important for treating cancer with fewer side effects. That's the whole idea of proton therapy. And what we're seeing is the ability to move that out into the community. So more and more patients who might benefit from proton therapy are able to get it if we bring proton therapy closer to their community. I think the motto of pen medicine sort of aligns with idea of personalized care and every patient that I see is absolutely unique. This is particularly true in the blood cancers where the variety is the rule, but also I think about patients really as people, not someone with a disease. And these people come with families, they come with beliefs, they come with maybe some social challenges. And really thinking about all of those things meshed together to figure out the best way of taking care of them. Pen medicine radiation oncology has this enormous network and having that flexibility allows me to treat each patient as a real individual along with their families and caretakers.