Hi, I'm Nancy Brown, chief executive officer of the American Heart Association. In our second century, we've set a bold vision to advance health and hope for everyone everywhere. Helping us achieve this aspiration is the incredible leadership of Dr. Kevin Bulp. His own personal health experience combined with his deep empathy for individuals and their complex health journeys is helping build systems of care that optimize patient health. The American Heart Association's Healthc Care by Food initiative intends to show that food is medicine interventions providing healthy food to people can prevent, manage, and treat cardiovascular conditions. The tricky part is how we get those healthy foods to people and have them eat them. And that's really where Kevin comes in. We're trying to incorporate the science of behavior change to figure out how to help people eat healthier food at higher rates to try to more effectively both treat and prevent cardiovascular disease. Everything about this initiative is complex, innovative, and I can't think of a better person who could be along this journey with me. Healthcare by food is now funding 23 different randomized trials around the country. These will lead to breakthroughs for people in terms of making these programs more effective, more engaging and improving the health trajectory and cost trajectory for those patients with diet related chronic conditions. The work that we're doing as part of healthcare by food built on a lot of prior research at the center for health incentives and behavioral economics at Penn. Kevin has been a pioneer in the field of behavioral economics. Kevin Vulp is indisputably the leader in bringing behavioral economics into the field of health and healthcare. Kevin has been a driving force in behavioral change at Pen Medicine. He's been able to expand to work with insurers, government agencies, and groups like the American Heart Association so that the impact of his ideas and his work can be spread more broadly. Kevin was one of our first dry bench researchers who brought behavioral economics, different way of motivating patients to adhere to their medications, different way to teach employees to do the right thing through the nudge unit. He can make behavioral economics, behavioral science make sense to any audience at any time. Kevin, as a colleague and close friend, I'm delighted to congratulate you on receiving the 2025 Edward S. Cooper Award. Edward Cooper is a legend in this community and in this nation. I can't think of anybody more deserving of an award named for Edward Cooper than you, Kevin. Congratulations receiving the Edward S. Cooper Award is a capstone for your impressive career. It's also welld deserved. Congratulations. Congratulations, Dr. V. We're so incredibly proud that you're receiving this honor and we're so very fortunate to have you as part of this team. Kevin, I'm so proud of you. I've learned so much from working with you. It's been not only productive, it's been inspiring and it's been fun. The American Heart Association is lucky to have you working with us. You know, Dr. Cooper has been a legend at Penn for years. And we have a saying that we walk on the shoulders of giants. And you walked on the shoulders of Dr. Cooper. But Kevin, really importantly, there are people at Penn right now that are going to walk on your shoulders. They're going to do great work. And it's because they were inspired by you. Thanks for all you're doing for Philadelphia, Penn, and the American Heart Association. Dr. Cooper is a living legend. my appreciation to Dr. Cooper for paving the way for so many people and for showing us that great things are possible if you're courageous and you work hard to make them happen.