Welcome to the podcast series from the specialists at Pen Medicine. I'm Melanie Cole and joining me today is Dr. Christina Jackson. She's an assistant professor of neurosurgery at the hospital of the University of Pennsylvania and an assistant professor of odilarangology head and neck surgery at Penn Medicine. I'd like to remind our listeners before we begin that anyone interested in reaching out directly to the skullbased surgery program at Penn Medicine directly can call the program patient coordinator at 2156626638 or email the program at neurosurgery pen medicine.upen.edu. She's here to highlight endonasal approaches to skullbased surgery for us today. Dr. Jackson, it's such a pleasure to have you join us. Endoscopic endonasal neurosurgery has been around for some time, but the procedures you're performing, including contraateral transmaxillary approaches and pituitary transposition, are relatively new. Can you describe these procedures, their benefits, and what makes them so unique? Thank you very much for having me today, Melanie. I'm very excited to share some of the work that we're doing in advanced inoscopic inonesal approaches here at Penn. When this technique was first introduced and gained more widespread use, the main pathology that we were able to treat was really limited to pituitary tumors along the midline of the skull base. As endoscopic inonesal surgery continues to evolve in advance, we're now able to tackle many more pathologies through these approaches. In addition to pituitary tumors, such as meniomas, cranoparreniomas, cordomomas, and condraomas, many of these tumors are in locations that were previously considered inoperable or couldn't be operated on without significant morbidity and risks. The contrlateral transmaxillary and pituitary transposition techniques are some of the nuance approaches that allow us to expand what we can accomplish through the indoasal corridor to reach new areas. They also allow us to do this in a more safe but also minimally invasive way. The challenges to these deep-seated skullbased lesions are that they're difficult to reach and are often surrounded by critical neurovvascular structures. Some of the limitations of endoscopic inones procedures previously were how lateral we could reach along the skull base due to the natural limitation of the borders of the nostril and this also previously limited our access to lesions that are tucked behind normal critical structures. The contrlateral transmaxillary approach expands our utilization of our natural paranasal sinuses to include the maxillary sinus and we use this as a natural corridor actually from the opposite side of the tumor which allows us to reach the farmost lateral extent of the tumor that we couldn't reach previously including tumors that are tucked behind the internal corateed artery. This involves creating a very small incision above the patient's gum that allows us direct access to the maxillary sinus. This conduit is then connected to the nasal corridors of a standard endoscopic inonesal approach that allows a more favorable angle for our instruments and lighted cameras to reach the lesion. The other area that has been difficult to reach historically is the location directly behind the pituitary gland. Traditional open approaches to this area requires a surgeon to transgress cranial nerves. Indonesal approaches previously were limited by the pituitary gland in terms of reaching this region. Pituitary transposition allows us to mobilize the pituitary gland out of the way to be able to reach this area. This involves releasing the pituitary gland from its natural confines safely so that we can look behind it and tackle tumors in this area without putting nerves at risk. These innovative approaches allow us a more direct route to these lesions with less risk to neuro and vascular structures that often limit traditional open cranottomy approaches. They also minimize large invasive incisions and brain retraction that allow patients a faster recovery without a scar. Such advanced medicine. Dr. Jackson, you recently had some very interesting cases, including a woman with a very rare malignancy near her internal corateed artery. What made this case so difficult and how was it resolved? I understand she went home the day after surgery. Yes, this was a patient who had a rare tumor called Converse saroma who actually travel from another state in particular for our expertise in these advanced approaches. Skullbased contra sarcomomas typically arise from and are located in a region called the petroal or petrus apex region. These regions are among some of the most difficult areas for us to reach surgically. Previously our ability to achieve a total resection in this area is limited and for these tumors maximal resection is critical to minimize the risk of recurrence of tumor. What makes these cases difficult is that the relationship of the tumor to the corateed artery and cranial nerves are intimately involved. From a cranottomy, the cranial nerves are often in the way and traditionally from an endonasal corridor, the corateed artery is in the way. With a traditional open approach, it would require a very large incision, extensive bony removal around the corateed artery and retraction of the brain to really reach this deep location. Reection of the tumor will also involve transversing cranial nerves and even then it will be very difficult for us to achieve a complete resection before. Patients are often recovering for weeks and sometimes months from these procedures. Now we're able to use the contrlateral transmaxillary approach and this is what we did for this patient. Using this approach in conjunction with traditional endoscopic interasal approaches, we were able to access the tumor behind the corateed artery safely without manipulation of the artery to be able to remove the tumor completely. This is accomplished with a two surgeon forhanded technique with our ENT partners with significant experience working in sync together through these corridors. Patients typically tolerate these procedures very well without brain retraction or painful incisions. This patient was in the hospital, like you said, for one night and was able to go home the following day. She was back to her hobbies, playing golf by the time she returned to clinic to see me about 2 weeks after surgery. Amazing. That's just incredible. So, what's involved in pituitary transposition? Can the pituitary, which sits in a sort of dedicated pocket in the skull, actually be moved? Tell us a little bit about that. Of course. So, one advancement in our ability to carry out these new approaches is really our improved understanding of the intricate anatomy of the skull base. And this is done through hours of careful dissection in the anatomy lab, something that we do on a routine basis here at Penn. And this is an invaluable experience in this field. The front of the pituitary gland is actually covered by two distinct layers of dura, which is the covering of the brain. However, on each side of the pituitary gland, these two layers actually split and are separated by Venus filled spaces called the cavernous sinus. We can take advantage of these Venus fil spaces to separate the two layers of the dura, the covering, and separate the attachments that usually holds the pituitary in place along each side. Once the attachments are released, the pituitary gland, which is still protected with the inner dural layer, can be mobilized readily lifted up to reach the pathologies behind it. This technique requires highly specialized trained surgeons who fully understand the anatomy of this complex region and the surgeons here at Penn are especially trained in these complex techniques. Well, endoscopic endonasal surgery has become a genuinely multiddisciplinary effort in recent years. Doctor, is this a reflection of the multi-step complexity of the surgeries and who's involved in the program at Pen Medicine? Speak about that multiddisciplinary approach. I completely agree with what you just said. These cases and approaches are technically challenging and are at the intersection of multiple different specialties. This includes neurosurgery, otoarangology as well as oculoplastic surgery. This multi-disiplinary effort is one of the reasons I pursue this specialized field in the first place. This truly becomes a partnership that requires a deep level of commitment from all members of the group. In particular, for endoscopic inones cases, they're always done together with neurosurgery and otoarangology where we are learning from each other and are discussing and performing each aspect of the surgery together including the approach, resection of the tumor as well as the reconstruction. We perform a high volume of these cases and are very used to working together. This team-based approach allows us to select the best surgical approach for each patient and each tumor to offer the best surgical outcomes. While our topic today is focused on endoscopic endonasal surgery, the Penn skullbased program is a comprehensive program including specialists in neurosurgery, rhinology, otology, head and neck surgery, oculoplastic as well as radiation oncology. We're able to provide a full array of options of cutting edge treatment for skullbased diseases in addition to minimally invasive approaches. Doctor, what other new approaches for minimally invasive surgery are on the horizon at Penn Medicine? Give us a little blueprint for what you see happening in the next 10 years or so. Sure. Another area that I'm really excited about is our involvement and partnership with our ocular plastic colleagues. One area of the skull base that is also intimately involved is the orbit and therefore we're partnering with our oculoplastic colleagues to expand our transorbital approaches for skullbased tumors here at Penn. These approaches allow us to use the natural creases of the eyebrow and eyelid to reach tumors without a large scar and often provide a more direct path to to these tumors. We already work closely together with our oculoplastic colleagues on larger combined cases where the tumor spans both the orbid and intrarenal compartments. Therefore, this is a natural partnership to develop a more minimally invasive approach to skullbased tumors for our patients. This is such an interesting topic. Dr. Jackson, finally, you've had patients arriving at Penn Neurosurgery from distant states for surgery. How can these patients and their clinicians reach out to you in the skullbased program for more information? For patients who would like to seek expertise from our skullbased team or clinicians who would like to refer their patients to see us, they can reach our program directly through our skullbased patient coordinator at 2156626638 or email us at neurosurgery at penmed.upen.edu. Thank you so much Dr. Jackson for joining us today and telling us about all of those interesting advances in endonasal approaches to skull-based surgery. That concludes this episode from the specialists at Pen Medicine. I'm Melanie Cole. Thanks so much for joining us today.