- Hello, everyone, this is Noel Williams the director of the Penn Metabolic and Bariatric Surgery Program here at Penn Medicine. I wanted to let all our patients know that you are in our thoughts during the coronavirus pandemic. In addition, I want to share with you how our team are responding to the coronavirus epidemic to keep our patients safe and how our patients are our first priority as we navigate this coronavirus pandemic. I'm going to address three frequently asked questions. The first, about surgeries that have been postponed. The second, about postoperative surgery care and the third, about information sessions for patients who want to have surgery in the future. Question number one. Some of you have had your bariatric surgery postponed and are wondering when will it be rescheduled. Many surgeries have been postponed safe at home by avoiding unnecessary exposure to a healthcare environment. Once we're in the clear to do elective surgeries again, each individual case will be reviewed and you will be notified by your care team as to when you're going to have surgery. Number two. I had bariatric surgery, how will I have my followup care? We understand how important followup care is to your short and long-term success, especially during these stressful times. We have recently implemented new virtual visit options with your safety and convenience in mind. This virtual care is available via phone by our healthcare providers, including nurse practitioners and dieticians. Between your scheduled visits we are also available via myPennMedicine and phone to answer the questions and provide support to you. If you are in the queue for a followup visit, we encourage you to call and schedule the visit so we can provide you with the care and support that is needed for your long-term health and success. Question number three. I'm thinking about having bariatric surgery. Are you still holding information sessions? To keep patients and staff safe at home and to continue practicing social distancing, we are going to offer an online version of our information session. You can register for this at PennMedicine.org/bariatrics. From there you can schedule a virtual case visit for your first appointment. We look forward to meeting you and welcoming you to our program. In the meantime, please continue to take care and be safe. Your health is our first priority here at Penn Medicine.