I was uh originally a civil engineer. Really enjoyed kind of the math and structural component to it. Uh but uh really engaged in medicine I think later on and just kind of fell in love with orthopedics and the way in which the body moves. My name is Dave Casper and I'm a spine surgeon at Penn Medicine. As a whole, the spine serves a purpose of centering your head over your pelvis almost and understanding the relationship in which treating someone's problem can have ramifications for that long term. I think is important. I treat anything that walks in the door. Whether that be degenerative pathologies uh that have to do with arthritis, whether that has to do with trauma that occurs from high-speed motor vehicle accidents, whether it's cancer that involves the spine, all the way to deformity surgery and correction of alignment of someone's spine as a whole. I can see a young patient with a significant herniated disc that has inability to use one of their limbs. I can see more elderly patients that have significant degenerative problems in their low back causing them to have weakness in their legs or limited ability to ambulate. I can see patients that come in with a metastatic cancer that spreads to their spine and then from a uh orthopedic trauma call perspective often times we'll see fairly significant injuries in relation to the spine itself. I have a very unique opportunity to treat people in their most vulnerable state. Everyone that walks into my clinic or, you know, I'm operating on in my O is is truly an individual and they have families, they have hobbies, they have different things that it is that makes them who they are. And I think I try to factor in all those aspects to their individual life to make sure that we come up with the best surgical plan for them. You know, I follow my patients indefinitely. I usually see them yearly uh even when they're several years removed from their surgery and hearing them check in. I'll get emails, texts, pictures of patients doing things that they weren't able to do, you know, months before the surgery. For me, being a part of pen medicine, from my perspective, it's, you know, the only place I would want to practice.