Welcome everyone to the Pen Primary Care podcast. I'm your host Dr. Kendall Williams. So, we're all prescribing them maybe multiple times a day. We're managing all kinds of issues with them, probably also multiple times a day. And it's time we start to talk about them in this format. And that of course is the GLP-1 agonist drugs and beyond that the newer drugs as well. So we're talking about Ozmpic, WGOI, Terzepatide and its brand names that we'll talk about. So in order to do that I invited back on the podcast Dr. Anastasia Amaro who was by the way terrific in our first podcast on obesity and I really recommend you listen to that in addition to I hope you listen to the rest of this but Dr. Amaro really went over the basics of obesity and talk about all the latest trends in that area, but we're back here to talk about a specific class of drugs that are really having a dramatic impact on the management of obesity and all of us are doing it every day. So, Dr. Omaro is the medical director of the Penn metabolic Medicine, the obesity center at Penn. She's an associate professor of medicine at Penn. Anastasia, thank you so much for coming again. Thank you, Kendall. My pleasure. Thank you for inviting me. At our first podcast, we were joined by Ronnie Nandada, who is unfortunately unable to join us tonight and really wanted to have Ronnie's beautiful voice on the program, but weren't able to do that. Wouldn't able to pull it together. But Anastasia, I'm sure your life is similar to ours, probably in a much greater magnified version. you are prescribing these drugs every day and managing all of the things that come with prescribing in terms of not just patient symptoms and their effects but also the whole insurance world and so forth. Right. Absolutely. Absolutely. And more recently here at Penn at UPS at the level of UPS we've been partnering with pharmacies to get prior authorizations carried out. Let me just go over the drugs we're going to talk about. So there is obviously earlier GLP1s but sort of the I think the obesity the use of these for obesity really got going in earnest in 2021 with ompic. Uh of course ompic was approved for diabetes and was simaglletide approved in 2017. In 2021, it was then approved by the FDA, more specifically for obesity and renamed Waggoi with some dosing and other changes that we can talk about. And then more recently, we've seen the emergence of Tzepatide, which came out in 2022, I believe, as Mjaro for diabetes and then just last month or the month before came out now as with a special approval for obesity. He now is zeppbound October 2023. Yes, time flies. It does fly. Yeah, it really does. So, these are the drugs we're talking about and we'll drill down on each of them as we go forward here. But I actually wanted to start with some of the physiology for because this is new physiology for those of us who trained in went to medical school in my era. This is a new hormonal system to talk about. So let's talk about just GLP-1s or the glucagon like polyeptide hormone. What does it do in the human body? This is an agonist. Samagleide is an agonist and like drugs are agonist of this hormone. So what does it do in the body? Absolutely. So glucagon like peptide is a peptide naturally occurring in the body produced by L cells by gunal mu indunal mucosa. It has multiple receptors in the body. We started learning about GLP-1 agonism in the beta cell in the island's pancreas first and that's how it was developed into a diabetes medication. Since that time the multiple receptors has been described in multiple organs in adipost tissue in certain areas of hypothalamus in the gut as well. So when treating obesity we are benefiting from the effects of GLP-1 on beta cell by modulating insulin release in response to nutrient ingestion. We also benefit by the action of GLP-1 on hypothalamus and sort of re I would say normalizing some of the conversation between the brain and the gut also by slowing gastric emptying and making food sit in the stomach a little longer. So these three main mechanisms do lead to improved satiation, improved satiety, and reduced hunger. When I explain these to patients, I tell them that this drug mimics a hormone that your stomach makes to tell your brain that you're full. I like that. Mhm. I suppose that's as simple as could be, but it also short changes the hormone to some degree because, as you noted, it really does have effects on the pancreas, on the fats, on the atapost tissue. as you noted I think even on bone and not sure that we really fully understand all of those aspects in terms of what is exactly happening I suppose other than the early satiety which is obvious that people just don't have the hunger that they expressed before or felt before we don't fully understand exactly how it's working we don't and I think we we actually may learn more about it through analyzing in detail data from select trial from the 5-year trial of cardiovascular outcomes because we honestly don't even know if the we do so select trial was first presented at the American Heart Association meeting here in Philadelphia in November of 2023 and it demonstrated quite reliably 20% risk reduction in threepoint mace which included non-fatal heart attack, stroke and cardiac death I believe. But to me it would be interesting to go back and look if this effect is truly weight dependent or there is a weight independent effect of GLP-1 receptor agonists possibly on cardiovascular system. So I want to go into that trial a little bit more in a bit but I let's just because we're going to talk about toepide. So simaglletide ompic waggoi is purely working on the GLP-1 system. Tzepide came out and was also not only a GLP-1 agonist but was also affecting gastric inhibitory polyeptide or GIP. I don't I don't know if that's how you refer to it. It is a glucose dependent insulinotropic polyeptide. It's GIP. So it's glucose dependent insulinotropic. Yeah. So I had initially written that down because that's what the thing said and then it was described again in a different article I read and the way I what seemed to translate better in the GI and I decided that was probably the accurate one but the accurate one is what you said right well I want to believe that okay so let's talk about what that does so it acts in a very similar way to GLP right it is produced a little higher up in dadnum by K cells of dadum mucosa It does have affinity towards beta cells in the islands of the pancreas as well. And then I believe we know much less about GIP than we know about GLP-1. And we don't even know GLP-1 that well. We do know that GIP binds to edipost cells. So there is a big body of research about what GIP might be doing with biology of adipose tissue. We do know actually was shown here at pan by hay that it GIP does have an effect on the hypothalamus and that effect is to some degree maybe anti-imatic. That helps me understand why I think I receive much fewer phone calls about nausea from patients who are taking teepide than from people who are taking zimaglletide. And then we also know that GIP promotes insulin sensitivity at various tissue levels at the adipose tissue level and probably at the muscle tissue level. So it facilitates glucose transport insulin dependent glucose transport into the cell. So in reading about that I had a question and I don't know if you know the answer to this but that would seem to because you know insulin is an anabolic hormone more glucose in cells means more fat storage that that actually may induce weight gain but apparently that's not the case or maybe I'm not just understanding the physiology well enough. I think there is a very interesting debate. So you I don't know if you're going to be surprised by that. So we determined that tier zepatite is a combination of GLP-1 receptor agonism and GIP agonism. Right? So we refer to them as dual agonists medications that combine those two actions. However, there is another product in research right now that combines GLP-1 receptor agonism and GIP antagonism resulting in very successful weight loss. At this point, it's an academic exercise, I think, trying to understand and explain what we actually see in the research lab and bring theory to explain what we actually see to explain the practice. And one of the explanations that I was somewhat able to comprehend is that actually we're dealing with it's the antagonism that's beneficial to weight management and the GIP agonism as part of tepatide works by almost like saturating this mechanism to the point that the signal that it it becomes impermanmeable for the signal. So it actually is the antagonism that leads to help with weight management but more to come. I don't think this is yet been resolved but it's a fact that we have two molecules in we will have them in the market currently in research space. one is already available GLP-1 GIP agonist dual agonist and another one in clinical studies GLP-1 agonist and GIP antagonist so I I don't want to spend too much time on the pathophysiology or the physiology pharmarmacology here but I just found it interesting so you know we have janublia which is cited which increases the or actually blocks the DPP4 system which leads to the breakdown of GLP. So you're basically, you know, using these drugs to increase the GLP by reducing its breakdown. A mechanism that's true of many drugs that we use in medicine, you know, inhibiting the breakdown leads to increased levels and so forth. And those are the glyins. They do not seem to result in weight loss the way these drugs do. But the other thing I found interesting about GLP-1s is that, you know, they're actually very transient hormones. And one of the issues that I had was as in using it as a pharmacological product is that it it didn't last long. And so they were able to finally get it out of the gila monster, you know, the reptile, out of the saliva, a version of it, if you will, that was not broken down by DPP4. And that sort of became the uh it became exenotide or biata and then eventually led to all of these other developments in that space. I just thought that history was kind of interesting. Absolutely. Yes. The half-life of naturally occurring GLP-1 molecule in the body is about 2 minutes. So by using DPP4 inhibitors, we inhibit the breakup. But you are absolutely right. DPP4 inhibitors do not result in weight management, weight loss. It's possible that we are achieving really sraphysiologic concentrations with injectable GLP-1 receptor agonists and not always can we measure it in the blood. It's probably I wish we had ways to measure the action of of a drug of a molecule at the level of receptor. I think it's it's going there right away. And the last thing I found interesting on this space is just that patients with obesity seem to have diminished levels of natural GLP-1. So by giving it to patients, we're actually sort of bringing them more up into a normal range or that was an observation at least. There are some contradicting observation in different trials. But I think what has been repetitively demonstrated that people with obesity have somewhat higher levels of GLP-1, but they're not fluctuating. They are not going up and down as expected in normal physiology. And that's very similar to what we're seeing with insulin levels in people with insulin resistance. you have elevated levels of insulin but then you don't have enough capacity beta cell capacity to go up in early postprandial state and then you never come down because you're so resistant and so the levels are kind of hovering in the middle and when we add exogenous GLP-1 receptor agonist we sort of reintroduce normal physiologic pattern of going up and coming down definitely for inance insulin and for GLP1s to some degree. I'm probably more interested than our audience in all of this stuff. So, I'm going to leave it for now. And but I think, you know, as we think through these drugs and talk to our patients about it, I did want to go over that so that we, you know, at least have some facility in being able to discuss how it's working in the body. Let's talk about these drugs and let's just deal with simaglletide first because historically that came before. So as I mentioned it was approved in 2017 for diabetes. In 2021 it came out as WGOI after the approval treat obesity. The trials that have really sort of told us that this drug is worthwhile are the step trials. There's there's been several of them. You know the big thing to me is just that you know they consistently showed about a 15% drop in weight which is significant. And you had said this before on our previous podcast. It's well known if you get a 5 to 10% drop in weight, you can have, you know, meaningful effects on diabetes and blood pressure and so forth. So a 15% drop is a meaningful amount. All patients in these trials were also encouraged, they were given dietary advice. They're encouraged to do exercise, at least 150 minutes of moderate exercise a week. And you know, they showed us that these drugs were effective. But the step trials much better than I do. But I wanted to do that little intro to them. Thank you. That's absolutely accurate. I probably would like to emphasize or just once again to mention the nomicature and names because it's becoming more and more important to actually prescribe an accurate brand name for a condition. So semlutide exists in two commercial names. One is OMPIC which is approved and covered by majority of commercial plans and Medicaid and Medicare for diabetes and we goi is marketed for obesity. Both are simaglatide of course and dose regimen is very not identical but very close. Simaglutide by the name of ompic goes up to 2 milligrams per week total and wiggoi goes up to 2.4 four milligrams per week. They're different in also in how their patients experience them, right? So, I was confused about this. I actually went down to our pharmacy at Radner where I practice and I said, "Can you explain to me, you know, when I'm ordering this, what are patients actually getting?" So, OMPic comes as a pen which has four doses in it. So, a month supply for a weekly dose of an injectable and it you have an ability to toggle between I actually don't know how high it goes on the initial pen but I think it's 0.25 and.5. Do you need to order a different pen if you want to go to the higher doses? Yes, absolutely. So, it's actually three pens exist. So, first pen goes up to 0.25 and 0.5 total. Both doses are marked on the dial. So people can dial 0.25 and we usually recommend that they do so for the first two to four weeks and then the same pen they can dial up to 0.5. So if they using 0.5 a week one pen will last them four weeks. You're absolutely right. The next pen so if you pasted.5 if you're increasing the dose past.5 milligrams per week you go into the next pen. The next pen will be ompic 1.0. that panel has one markup of 1.0 zero the top dose you can still inject less but you would need to use what we call click method so total number of clicks I think somewhere in the vicinity of 70 I want to say then so half of that would be half the dose if you need to do that let's say you know that's the only pen available considering the shortages that we've been having so you can prescribe whichever pen is available and it kind of count clicks and come up with the right amount ompic is excellent and very convenient this way because it's it is dose adjustable pen and then there is a the third pen ompic 2 it goes up to 2 milligrams so again it's only marked at 2.0 everything else are just clicks you can count them and inject as little or as much as you need so I had a patient who's a orthopedic surgeon for issues of availability I think primarily he ended up needing the 2.0 No, cuz or that was the only option to him. He hadn't started it, but he said he wanted to try it. And I said, you know, that's really not a good idea. You're going to get really nauseated. But when he got the pen, he realized that he could do this click method and he could start at the 0.25 and then this pen would actually, if he got more needles, would actually last him a long time. So I think he ended up paying out of pocket for it. drug costs about $1,000, but he was making it use of it for I don't know three, four months or something like that. Is that right? That's absolutely right. And I'm glad you said all this. It's all against FDA label, but we do that. We do that. It's it's the same simaglutide and that's how you make it affordable to some people who can do it. So I guess if you let's say you start you're at 0.5 and you have a 2 milligram pen you know you're going to be able to get eight doses out of that or or more right probably. Yeah. So I think at some point you probably will be nervous about keeping the same open pen for longer than what 60 days 90 days. What's your comfort level when formally it says do not keep past 28 but at least safe. So that's very interesting. These are kind of little practical things that we struggle with in our area here. Before we get to more practical issues of prescription and getting it authorized and available and so forth, I just want to talk about the trial you mentioned earlier and that was the select trial because I think that's the other big thing that's out there. It's not just the weight loss trials that showed 15% reduction, but the select trial which looked at over 17,000 non non-diabetics. So these were obese patients not diabetic patients who got saglletide at 2.4 which would be the highest WGO dose and then in that they saw a 20% reduction in absolute risk of cardiac events at roughly 3 years period. That was a big deal. Not sure the full impact of that study has been felt in our community yet. But the fact that we can prescribe something to patients at risk for cardiac events that would reduce it by 20%. I mean I don't know I think statins are about 30 to 40%. So I mean this is a pretty big deal. I think it is a huge deal. I probably would like to point out the inclusion criteria the patient population that was included so we don't extrapolate it to everybody. So age it was 45 plus BMI 27 plus and people would have to have a high burden of cardiovascular risk factors or actually established cardiovascular disease such as primary cardario infac inffection stroke or peripheral arterial disease with cludication prior revascularization or amputations. So those are inclusions. We're still talking about sicker individuals. It will be hard to extrapolate this to a healthy 28 year old with um BMI of 35 without metabolic complications. But I think you'll see in the same area that what we've seen with the SGLT2s that insurance companies and are going to be pressured to approve this drug if it becomes sort of a cardiac drug. Absolutely. That's the way to get people on those medications. Absolutely. That's going to be our way. And I I know for a fact discussions along those lines are happening right now, you know, with the major prescription benefit managers. So let's go back and talk about WGOI because that is a little different in how it's dispensed. The folks at the pharmacy told me that if I order.5 WGOI, people get four distinct syringes, not a pen that you can toggle between different doses. You know, you get four and that's your month supply and then you have to come back. So when you order WGOI if you want to start at the 0.25 dose you have to write a prescription for 0.25 you get four syringes and then you have to write another prescription per.5 when they go up to that dose and so forth and it goes like that up to 2.4 right yes it's a laborintensive sort of exercise and a lot of plastic waste. So people receive four humongous pens which is one use only. It's use it or lose it. It's all or nothing. You cannot adjust. So I do understand how they came to this decision sort of from a marketing standpoint and it was a business decision but they also say the company nolva Nordisk they also felt that was the most convenient way and it's it was best liked by potential users. You don't even see the needle. You don't touch the needle. You don't manipulate the needle. So it's easy. You know, I wanted to ask you about dosing because, you know, I have patients who have had a lot of success at the lower doses. I've had patients that go two 0.25. They're losing weight at a pace they're happy with and they never go up to the 0.5 dose. But when I look at the trials, you know, a lot of these were done that, you know, we talked about the select trial, it was at 2.4 milligrams and so forth. I'm just curious in your experience what you're seeing in terms of the dose finding exercise of where people are having success. I absolutely agree with you Kendall. I have people in the maintenance phase on very different doses. If someone is sensitive enough to start losing weight on the first on the lowest or the next dose, there is no reason to speed up their titration. So save it for a later day when they stop losing or they start regaining or they start struggling despite injecting the medication. That's my approach. So we rather than targeting a dose, we're targeting weight loss velocity if you wish. As long as people are losing one to two pounds a week, that's a good weight loss. That in most likely with one to two pound weight per week, they are losing mostly adipost tissue and less so muscle. If you're losing more than two pounds a week, you're probably losing muscle. So, people who do that need counseling on resistance training. Well, everybody does, but especially people who are losing weight rapidly. Let's talk about what patients experience and why they're losing weight because most of the patients that have and I always ask patients, you know, if they've had success, well, you know, what has why are you losing weight? And invariably they tell me I'm not hungry. Food has no attraction. Two patients really stick out in my mind. One who said I have to remind myself to eat and I'm just not really hungry. And then the the the other one said similar to something I think you alluded to that before I was always thinking about food. I was always thinking about what my next meal would be. My mental life centered around food and that whole dialogue is gone. Is that what you're experiencing as well? Absolutely. Yes. And it could it really can take different spins in different people's lives. So some finally feel relieved of that pressure of thinking about a food or a pressure of trying not to think about the food when the food is in their mind. And others actually may not like it as much because they may be losing their social life over it. They they are not interested in going out. They're not interested in hosting parties. So yeah, it's individual. We need to talk to people. We need to talk to people and we may need to adjust their expectations or dose of the medication based on their individual goals. How about side effects? You know, almost all of them were gastrointestinal in the studies. Nausea and diarrhea and constipation I saw. That's absolutely true. definitely in the studies, but I think what we've been seeing in the last year or so when the medication sort of left that research space with selected and still quite homogeneous patient population and entered the real life clinical space where people with multiple different diseases that were excluded from the studies to begin with or patients with organ transplantation, patients with different cancer diagnosises. So we start seeing side effects that didn't even give us a signal in randomized control clinical trials. So for example those interesting side effects that I've seen recently one is aladinia. So people develop that unpleasant painful paristhesia type of skin sensation specifically on simaglatide. I have not encountered yet on tearsite but simaglletide yes at least two cases are in front of my eyes one responded to dose reduction and another one held it for a little bit and then re I think we switched to tepatide and I'm yet to see how that goes so and we will probably see more there is also fatigue definitely fatigue fatigue is so hard in medicine I always tell my patients fatigue is not a medical problem. It's almost never a medical problem, but and that's why it's so it's no non-specific and folks their dietary patterns are changed. So teasing that out, the degree to which the drug is challenging. When they first came out, we were concerned about pancreatitis both inducing pancreatitis and being a problem for patients who have had pancreatitis. also some gallstone issues that seems to be less of a concern as it's evolved but can you comment on that gallstones I think gallstones I do continue seeing relatively I think increased risk of having a gallbladder attack or needing colistctomy while taking the medication so I do think we're provoking those attacks in people who were predisposed whether it's a direct effect of GLP-1 receptor agonist on yet another receptor somewhere near gallbladder. I don't know. I doubt it. The the thought process was that any rapid weight loss could provoke a gallbladder attack. And I think that's what we're seeing. So most successful patients probably I shouldn't generalize, you know, I but I do think people who start losing weight rapidly are probably more prone to developing a gallbladder attack if they had a predisposition to it. As far as pancreatitis, I don't see an increased incidence of pancreatitis in patients taking GLP-1 receptor agonist, it is still my question and I do get a careful history of what happened to their pancreas and gallbladder before prescribing and someone who let's say had a bout of pancreatitis related to gallstones many years ago and since then had nucosisctomy and gallstones are gone and never had another bout. I would prescribe it. it would not be a contra indication in my mind. So let's talk about tepatide because that's the newer one came out in 2022 I believe as Mjaro as a diabetes drug also a weekly injection. I know these are different companies but it was kind of nice of them to do it these two drugs in a similar way so that when we got used to giving them we it was sort of the same system at least you know starts at 2.5 mg I believe and I think the high dose is 15 I don't have as much experience with mangaro the trial that changed things is a trial of over 2,000 patients and found that there was really a a 20% reduction in weight at the highest doses at 15 milligrams lower doses were achieving things reduction similar to simaglletide but deeppatide appears to be somewhat more potent for weight loss than simaglletide and you alluded to the fact it may be better tolerated true and we still do not have an explan if we do believe that tepatide is a little more potent we still don't understand precisely why in the studies there was an estimated ed approximately 350 calories decrease in consumption food consumption by patients in both trials actually in both simaglutide enterpatide group. So pretty much people receiving simaglotide enterpatide without additional counseling intuitively reduce their caloric intake by about 350 calories. And yet on average it looks like people on interpepatide lose a little more than people on simaglletide. Do we have an explanation? We don't. Could it be something related to adipost tissue biology and some signals coming out of there? Maybe. But we we don't yet know. So that turning off of the desire to eat that we see with simaglletide is also there in tereptide. But it may be that trapatide has an a little bit more of a boosting independent effect over and above its ability to just turn off your calorie needs. Right. Maybe. Maybe. So I'm less familiar with prescribing this, but I believe it's dispensed similar to WGOi as individual syringes. Is that right? So tepatide exists in two commercial forms. Monaro is for diabetes and zepound is for obesity. Munjaro and Zepbound have absolutely identical dose regimen. Unlike Ozic and Wiggoi where you still have the slightly different final dose like highest dose, Zeb Bound and Munjaro have exactly the same the same step titration and lowest and highest dose from 2.5 up to 15. And they are prescribed the same way. Four pens at a time or 2 mls. I think you need to change your prescription on a monthly basis if you're uptitrating or you could do it slower. I do find that people actually start losing weight on the lowest dose and there was no hurry in titrating it up. So even at the 2.5 milligram dose, you're seeing people losing weight and just staying there. Some do. Yeah, that's great. So, you know, looking at the wholesale cost of of all of these drugs, you know, the four brand names and two generics, you know, it appears to be they're all hanging around the $1,000 if bought without insurance support. And some people choose to do that. And, you know, there's little things that maybe we can do in terms of especially that trick with giving the ompic 2 milligram pen and sort of extending it and figuring out how many clicks you get for each dose and doing it that way. But other you know other than that you're left with paying quite hundred at least hundreds of dollars per month for these medications. So ideally you want to get insurance approval. To me that seems pretty variable. You know pen insurance is actually pretty good about it. The rest of the products are the rest of the companies are all over the place. Is that what you're experiencing? Yes absolutely. And I think 2024 will be a battlefield between customers. demand is high prescribers and third-party payers. I do think that it may not be sustainable to make this medication available to everyone who needs it. You know, we are expecting the rates of obesity to be around 50% by 2030. So 50% of adults in the US may potentially be candidates for these medications. So who's going to pay the cost, pay the price? I don't know. But what I know right now the insurers and prescription benefit managers PBMs are doing they are trying to offer it because the demand is huge but they try to offer it with certain they call them guard rails with certain restrictions and they are trying to either cut off healthier individuals. So let's say even though in patients with BMI of 27 and one complication or 30 plus regardless of complications were included in clinical trials and that's how it is approved by FDA an individual plan may have a cut off of BMI 35 and coorbidities or BMI 30 and two coorbidities or not one. So they are trying to save on sort of healthier patient population. Another hiccup is what if people already did something to lower their BMI and they had obesity by definition by BMI definition 6 months ago and now their BMI is 29. So that's another situation where some plans are better than others. Some plans do recognize that and as long as you mention in priorization you mentioned the original BMI they go by it and continue the medication for healthy weight maintenance. Others give you a really difficult time continuing this patient on a medication. So these are situations where you're you're having to get approval again a second time and they've already lost a fair amount of weight and now you're trying to get it back again or people this is the first time for a person who just got a job with this insurance plan for example but who had been already on the medication before did good job losing weight on their own and need to continue. One of the things I thought as I was reading about this is that I wonder if employers are going to ask maybe put it in as a perk that they'll simply rather than having the health insurance company they contract with pay for it, they're actually going to sort of offer to pay for it for their employees. uh it's not an overwhelming cost and depending on how long you may have your employees. If you can offer this benefit and say, you know, if you stay on a losing path, it may reduce sick days, you know, and some other issues that may make it affordable even to just pay out of pocket by employers. It's just a crazy idea I had. But but about employers, yeah, I think this is a good idea. I wouldn't be surprised if some already look into that to eliminate one more chain and employers are going to have a lot of say about what the insurance companies do, especially the bigger ones if they feel like it's really beneficial to their employees. They they're going to be pushing. Okay. So, but that's those are sort of global health policy issues and not necessarily what the average primary care physician is going to experience. Let's talk about what happens. You have a patient. You said that healthy weight loss is one to two pounds per week. They're losing weight. They get to their goal weight or well, let's talk about they don't get to their goal weight. They plateau. What do you do then? Well, it depends where they plateau. If they plateau at 10% weight loss or more, that may be the goal. BMI may not be at any kind of ideal body weight, which we don't even know anymore, I think, what that is. But if they've lost at least 10% of weight and plateaued, you kind of you reconvene and see if you if you've really achieving what you've tried to achieve. Have you achieved any improvement in blood pressure control, diabetes control, pre-diabetes is resolved, triglycerides are down, fat in the liver is down, then at that point your strategy may be to sort of redefine the goals of care. It may be weight maintenance at this point. So, we do know that yo-yo dieting or yo-yo weight changes up and down are not good for cardiovascular health. It's probably related to changes in body composition. Every time we regain and lose, we may may be losing sort of more muscle and regaining more fat. Although many will argue with me, so we need more data about that. But nevertheless, we do know that going up and down, up and down almost eliminates cardiovascular benefit. So we do need to help our patients maintain reduced weight, whatever reduction there was. If it's 10% or or more at at this point, I'd say that's what you want to maintain for as long as possible. So I wouldn't call the medication failed. If they are still able to maintain 10 or more percent weight loss, but if they start struggling and regaining while taking the medication, then I think that's time to sort of reassess. Are you going to be switching medications? Are you going to be looking more precisely into what they're doing physical activity wise and lifestyle-wise and other medications that have been prescribed in the meantime or other diagnosises they have received. So that's the point where you definitely want to reconvene. So it's interesting because one might think that you would just want to increase the dose but Lasix is a drug for instance has this threshold effect. you know once you find an effective dose it's really not helpful to keep going up because you know you found the dose that is going to induce diaresis I'm curious do you let's say somebody lo they're on waggoi they hit 1 milligram they're losing at 1 to two a month they're on it for a year and a half they lose 20 25 pounds and they've lost over 10% of their body weight they're doing well and then they say can I increase the dose what would you say to that person again it depends where the plateau is If the plateau is in the sort of normal or close to normal BMI range, then we may discuss whether it's necessary. If the plateau is still above 30, you know, of course, let's keep going. Let's keep going. We're going to go slowly. But yes, there isn't what would preclude me from recommending the dose increase is the burden of side effects, honestly. So, if they don't experience the side effects, let's try trade to the highest approved dose. Nothing precludes us. Let's talk about weight maintenance. When I first heard about the rebound effects, my first thought was, well, everybody, every diet that has ever been done has rebound effects. When I was looking into this today in prep for the podcast, I saw a statistic that folks were losing weight, but then gaining back 11.9% of what they had originally lost, which is a lot less than they had lost in the first place. So if somebody loses say 15% and they only gained 11% of that total back, you know, they're not they've still lost quite a bit of weight. So what kinds of weight gains are we seeing when patients go off the medication is my question. It varies. It varies. We can see full weight regain of the entire weight that they lost on the medication and it can happen probably not very rapidly. It's still going to be some legacy but it may happen. On the other hand, I do see patients who were able I I believe those are the patients whose sort of physiology allowed them to use the time on the medication to optimize their lifestyle and to train their hypothalamus to new set points to new portion sizes to new dietary choices that when they go off the medication for one reason or another and it could be coverage is over and they have to do it on their own. Now, they may have that legacy quite prolonged. They may regain maybe a third of what they've lost, but they may have months and years of still reduced weight. And I think that's where we're moving with positioning the role of lifestyle modification where in the past it was um you you have to fail weight loss attempts on your own before being eligible to the medication. While it still holds true for many insurers, we do understand with this second generation weight loss medications, we can start with the medication right away and counsel the person into optimizing lifestyle while on the medication to actually to get to the target not only to the target weight but to the target body composition and metabolic state. So when you're talking to patients about these medications, you're really sort of looking at this comprehensively because, you know, as I noted in the trials, you know, these folks were also given dietary counseling. They were also given exercise goals and so forth. So you're really incorporating a lifestyle change in that knowing that eventually you would like to get them off the medication and then hopefully they'll be able to maintain that. Right. Right. And that eventually is different for everyone. So when they when people ask me how long do I need to stay on the medication, my answer has become as long as it makes sense. If it makes sense to if the medication allows you to maintain lower weight, it's worth being on it. If you take the medication and you haven't developed side effects and it's doing something, it's worth being on it. If you're struggling with regain while on the medication or if you developed you started developing side effects which can be developing even year or two into it not necessarily right away then we may have to decrease the dose discontinue a switch. Actually I want to highlight that because I I didn't know that. So if you get patients through an initial phase where they may be nauseated they accustom themselves and they're fine. You're saying even after being on it months, they can actually develop more gastro intestinal effects. I do believe so. I'm seeing this. You know, it's possible that those are coincidental cases with something else sort of developing in their bodies, but I think it's the medication. So I see people who've been successfully losing and maintaining lower weight on simaglutide for a couple years and then they come in with terrible nausea and almost gastroparesis type of clinical picture and it's hard to attribute it to anything else but the medication. So maybe we will see more of that in sort of real life experience. All the clinical trials, the original clinical trials, step trials, they were up to two years in duration and now in clinical practice, we follow people for four, five, six, seven years of those drugs. So I think we will see more of it. So the final question I want to ask you, you know, really actually has to do with these lifestyle aspects. And you had mentioned that if you lose more than 1 to two pounds per week, then you can be losing muscle and that you're advising patients on resistance training and so forth. You know, I understand from our conversations that that actually is is kind of a hot issue right now. Absolutely true. And I think so there are I would probably single out couple of scenarios or patient populations where we as clinicians should be particularly vigilant. One is elderly patients, our senior patients. We know from research prior to GLP-1 receptor agonists that managing weight in patients over 65 is more challenging in that they do lose more muscle when they lose weight. So ideally geriatric population needs to be approached with resistance training counseling right away along with any modality any weight loss modality. So now we have patients who are over 65 receiving GLP-1 receptor agonists and losing weight rapidly. We shouldn't be forgetting that they may be losing the wrong kind of weight. Again, I don't want to discount the importance of weight management in patients over 65, but I think we need to do better job counseling them about resistance training and lean mass maintenance. We may not need to escalate their doses based on what the study says. We may need to use individualized approach. So, that's one patient population. And another patient population is probably people who are losing weight really rapidly. So that rapid weight loss that's why I like bringing people back for even inpatient visits because you know teley medicine I may not even realize how much muscle they have lost and they so I think people losing weight rapidly need to have a sit down conversation about their protein intake and resistance training. Are there specific dietary aspects other than Mediterranean diet, trying to develop good habits, making sure that people who may be eating reduced calories get, you know, the broad range of nutrients that we need as humans. But you mentioned protein. Are you are you encouraging a higher protein diet in patients that are not just losing weight rapidly, but even the general patients? probably not general, but if they're losing weight rapidly and they're planning or starting to do resistance training, then probably yes, slightly, you know, higher than usual. But in general, I am asking people about their diets along the way and making sure they do have sort of good amount of protein, some 80 100 grams of protein a day on on average, I would say. In addition to protein, yes, Mediterranean low glycemic index, high fiber intake, uh vegetables, fruit. Really, there is no single study and there have been lots of like billions of dollars invested in diet research that shows over and over again that we are not quite ready to recommend a patient specific diet. It it does come to caloric intake and and as far as composition, it really comes down to protein, fiber, low glycemic index sort of being important in weight management and insulin resistance management. I'm a vegetarian almost entirely and occasionally when I'm at the deli at Radner and there's nothing else to eat, I'll have the tuna. But that is I try to make that as rare as possible. But in making that transition over the age of 40, by the way, I had to learn to love some foods that I didn't particularly like before. But lentils are probably my favorite food now. And I it's one of the great foods of humanity. You know that you really appreciate just how wonderful that is. And you know, getting 80 grams of protein a day as a vegetarian is actually a little bit of a challenge. You have to Yeah, you have to make sure you get something with every meal. Anastasia, it's late. Really appreciate your time. I know you for those of us listening, Anastasia has had a full day of clinic today and you know that we record these late and I really appreciate you coming on to talk about something that we're dealing with all the time and just going into the weeds on this. Thank you Kendall. Yeah, it was a pleasure talking with you. I like all the questions that you asked. Great. I should plug the Obesity and metabolic center Anastasia's work on hopefully some of what we do here in terms of the podcast will help folks who may have trouble getting their patients in or whatever do the work that they're doing in our own practices. So, thank you all for joining the Penn Primary Care Podcast. We'll see you again next time. Please note that this podcast is for educational purposes only. For specific questions, please contact your physician.