So from a research perspective to me this is one of the most evolving and exciting field in medicine. On the other hand from a patient relationship this field you get to help people and meet them in their most vulnerable space and you develop relationships like no other field of medicine. Hi I'm afra I'm a medical oncologist at NB Baringer Cancer Institute at Penn Medicine. My job has three parts to it. The first part, I still engage in patient care. I'm a GI medical oncologist. I treat patients with GI malignancies and that include anything that happens in the abdomen basically. And I treat patients that are quite ill. My focus is more on pancreatic cancer, biliary cancers. I do see some colon cancers. So that's my clinical focus. I am still very much involved with research. My research uh career focus on development of novel therapies, conducting clinical trials and here at Lancaster my job entails really growing the clinical trial program allowing more studies to be activated here so we have access to trials and I also am working on my own studies which I've been working on for years really focusing on novel treatment approaches for patients with GI malignancies and focusing more on older patients with GI malignancies cuz that's a population where we see more and more in our clinic and where there's a lot of missing data. And then finally, as the director of this cancer center, I do have some administrative work really overseeing services for patients, making sure that across the board, not just in my world in GI, but across the board, we deliver the best care that we can for our patient population. Oncology is truly an art. It's a lot of sitting and really understanding who is the individual in front of you because you are making very critical decisions. You're making decisions that will ultimately affect not just that patient, their whole family and understanding all the variables that are related to the care, whether it's the cancer itself, the family, the other medical issues, the patients ability to tolerate the patients goals and perspectives. I mean, all of those things have to come together for a treatment plan that would be successful. And success means different things to different patients. So absolutely there's no one-sizefitit all and you really need to have that ability to sit and have that sometimes difficult discussion but that's part of the art. How do you make that discussion something that the patient leaves and says, "I know whatever I'm getting, this is the best thing for me.