(Gentle music playing) - The empowerment center was started to bridge the gap between the services that refugee and immigrant families receive after the resettlement process is over. What we have found, is that after our families come to Lancaster and they're part of the resettlement agencies, after that 90 days, either they have to be sustainable on their own, or they're floundering. - So that's where Grape Leaf picks up, because that's just not enough time. - How's the school year going for the girls? Is it going okay? Do they like school? - Yeah, they like school, but I have some questions. (speaking in Swahili) - Okay. - So, I could say in Swahili, but let me try in English and then- - Okay! Awesome. - Our services are coming in to fill the gap, such as housing, employment, supports in school. We have a gathering place. We really just want families to feel welcome. We were very fortunate to receive a grant from Penn Medicine to help with the language navigator program. And that is essentially providing language support from community members. - We have a lot of immigrants and we need to connect with them, but we need language interpreters to help us reach clients as much as we want to reach out to them. (speaking in foreign language) We took a Pak 'n Play to a family that's about to have a new baby and used it as an education tool for safe sleep. - Going and visiting families in the home is letting families know that, hey, I want to meet you where you're at, because transportation is the biggest barrier. So Grace ESL program is my favorite resource to give the families. What they offer our families is something that is so needed, and that is transportation and child care. - These are students that have not been able to attend regular ESL classes and so they fall through the cracks. Grace Lutheran helped us by providing us with a bus that we had sitting in the parking lot. And so we were able to put it to use for our students. - So, as usual, can anybody tell me what today's date is? Today is Tuesday, October 1st, - [Class in unison] 2019. - Some of the refugees that have gone through the program have learned English enough to get a job. We've had people that were interested in citizenship, in driver's licenses, getting a G.E.D., all things that are very important for employment and communication. - I love watching them go from being very quiet and silent to be able to speak to me, to others. To respond to their teacher, to respond to their fellow students. It is such a privilege to see this and to work with them. - It's really great that Penn Medicine offers these grants to small communities like ours. It makes a big difference.