[♪♪♪] - At Penn Medicine for Women, we understand how important it is for women and their partners to start a family. We want to make their dreams come true, and we can do that at Penn Fertility Care. Valerie: I grew up with two big brothers, a very supportive family, very involved with each other, and there was no doubt in my mind that I wanted to have children. We had immediate success actually getting pregnant. As it turns out, unsuccessful pregnancies; we lost two pregnancies. And that was very challenging and a blow to the ego, emotionally, and then also physically for me. - We have programs for patients who are trying to establish a family and have encountered difficulties. So, we provide a wide range of services for infertility both for men and women. We have the leading male fertility program in the entire region. We have developed health services and reproductive health services for the LGBT community, and we're continuing to look for opportunities to meet the needs of our community. And that's really what we want the women to know, we're here for them. - We came to Penn Medicine because simply, their reputation is phenomenal. We met with Dr. Kalra, one of their physicians. She showed the confidence that I needed that I was lacking at that time. I was really down and insecure about it, and she then took over the confidence. - Penn Medicine was one of the first programs in the country to start an IVF program. Since then, it's really progressed. We have some of the highest success rates in the region and in the country right now. We have a team of national leaders and experts in fertility care. - I remember laying on the table and Jason just lost it. And the radiologist tech who was doing the ultrasound, he just embraced him because he was just a ball of emotion. - Well, you've got to figure that our journey has been a couple of years, and again I remember trying to be the rock for her and strong and, you know, I can't show any weakness, I can't break down, and so, when I thought it was finally over and God, can't believe we did this, maybe I got a little teary-eyed. I don't know about bawling. But I was very, very happy. - For women, who haven't found answers that they're looking for to meet their healthcare needs, they'll find their answer here at Penn Medicine. Valerie: They were born about one o'clock in the morning. The sunrise was coming over this tower from my room, and I was awake with adrenalin and I was just like, "Oh my gosh". And I look around the room, I'm like, this is my family. And yeah, it doesn't really encapsulate saying, thank you. You know, you teach your kids to say thank you, but sometimes, saying thank you is such a bigger... - Meaning. And I think that sunrise, I'll never forget that sunrise, and then the room feeling like, "wow". - Uh-hmm. Yeah. - Let the games begin. - Yeah.