I'm Joey. I'm 23 years old and because of PEN, my heart is now healthier than it's ever been. I was born with cardiomyopathy with a mushroom valve regurgater on down the line. I could do somewhat normal things. Everything was fine up until 19 years old. I started having pain, started having uh palpitations, started getting out of breath. I felt really dizzy and I passed out. My mother called 911. The ambulance came and transferred me over to University of Penn. I really only had two choices. A heart transplant or this unique trial at Penn. I met my primary doctor which was Dr. Rammy and he had told me that there was a unique study that I could join that could save my heart that could make me feel well again and could make me do most of the activities that I did not and I was not able to do my whole life. So, for me, it was a no-brainer. An ELVAD stands for left ventricular assistant device. And what this is, it's a heart device used to either be attached to the left or right ventricle of your heart in order to help the heart pump better. Waking up with this device was, you know, a whole new experience from day to day. I had to learn the ins and outs of this device. And I knew that this device was going to take care of me, but I had to take care of it. In February of 2011, preparation time was beginning to expplant the elvad. After the surgery, I spent two weeks in the hospital recovering and Dr. Rammy gave me a set date of March 16th to come back for a checkup to see how I was doing. I went in and my heart was doing great. My ejection fraction through everything they have done had gone up significantly. For the first time in my life, I was able to do something that I never thought that I would be able to do. I was able to play baseball, play paintball, play basketball without getting out of breath. And it was an amazing feeling. In essence, it's a whole new me. And without the study drug, amazing doctors and nurses and staff at Pen Medicine, I would not be able to achieve everything that I wanted to achieve. For me, this was not just a victory for my heart. This was a victory for everybody involved. My life is worth pen medicine, isn't yours?