- My father was a doctor and so was my grandfather. I remember as a young child, going into his office and kind of snooping around the office when I was six or seven. And so I grew up around doctors. I loved it, I wanted to do it, and I've never looked back, because I really come to work everyday and I love my job. My name is Gregory Weinstein. I'm the Vice Chair of the Department of Otorhinolaryngology: Head and Neck Surgery. I'm the Director of the Center for Head and Neck Cancer, and the Director of the Head and Neck Cancer Service Line here at Penn. I see the broad-spectrum of head and neck cancer patients. I see patients with mostly HPV related cancers of the throat. I see voice box cancers. I have special expertise in doing surgical techniques that save the voice box even if you've gone through radiation or chemo radiation, and the cancer's come back, we can use surgical techniques that preserve the function of speech and eating without a permanent tracheostomy in large numbers of cases. This is really important work that we do. Trans-oral robotic surgery is a minimally invasive surgical technique that allows us to remove primarily HPV related tonsil and tongue based cancers, through the mouth using surgical robotic technological that reproducibly gives over a 90% chance for a cure, and outstanding swallowing and speech outcomes. And presently has become a standard of care option for the management of head and neck cancers. All of my colleagues are world class. I'm very proud of the fact, as the Director of the center, that we've helped build and attracted some of the greatest talent worldwide to join us here at Penn. This team together, that works cohesively, and meets regularly, is phenomenal from not only a clinical basis, but we do some of the most cutting edge research in the world. When the patient comes here, they know they're going to be able to see all these different specialties. They're going to get all of the rehab they need here in a unique way, in a phenomenal way, so that, as quickly as possible, we can get through the treatment. We get you back into work, back into life. If you're a patient looking for state of the art, compassionate care that's going to be well thought out, you've got to come to Penn.