- Penn Medicine is more than an institution. It's really a body of people and leaders who have the best available to them. So our goal at Otolaryngology: Head, Neck Surgery is to allow you to have the best care that's available in each of our subspecialties. My name is Ara Chalian. I'm a faculty member in otolaryngology at Penn Medicine. As a medical student, you're exposed to all of the fields. I realized I love the anatomy of the head and neck. I especially loved taking care of people's problems that involved reconstructive surgery as well. The science, the puzzle, the art, the humanity all blended together. The main focus of my work here at Penn Medicine is to take care of patients that have head and neck tumors either in the removal of those tumors and the reconstruction of the area that was affected by the tumor, and actually marrying the patient's goals with the possibilities that our science can provide. The majority of the things that I see are not the run-of-the-mill ear, nose, and throat problems that we all are affected by. They're some of the less common problems that bring people to Penn Medicine or to see specialists like me. In my practice, I see patients that have thyroid cancers or benign thyroid tumors. I see patients that have cancers of their mouth or their throat or the skin of their face. So it's a combination of plastic surgery, reconstructive surgery of form and function, and optimizing cancer surgery so that patients get the best outcomes. I view our practice as a country practice where we're getting to know you as an individual and a family yet we have available to us the highest tech, largest organization in health care to give you the best health care you can get. We are gonna take our time to get to know you, to understand your condition and share with you what is and are the best treatment options. In our department of Otolaryngology: Head, Neck Surgery, we're always looking for the next frontiers and innovations. I actually see a future where we're going to experience and be able to do things that we cannot even imagine. But we know what we wanna see, and I think we'll be able to achieve that with some of the science we have and some of the creative people we have and some of the leadership we have that allows us to explore these possibilities.