- So it's always fun after the operation. You know, you do a surgery where you're trying to repair someone's tongue, trying to help them swallow again, and I always like when I go see someone after their operation and I'm talking to them and they all the sudden speak for the first time and they're surprised that they're speaking very clearly and that we're having a conversation. That's one of the things that I always enjoy. My name is Robert Brody, I'm an assistant professor in the department of ENT at Penn Medicine. I went into medicine because on the one hand it's an enjoyable job to talk to people every day. Get to know people of different walks of life, but on the same token it's great to provide someone I think, who is anxious about a recent diagnosis or their prognosis for a specific disease, to give them reassurance, give them a plan, and give them the strength of mind to move forward and get healthy. Ear, nose, and throat I think is a great field, because it combines all of the aspects that, I think, are most important to people. Being able to speak, being able to eat and swallow, being able to hear and listen. So, I think it's great to be a head, neck oncologist who's able to both treat these cancers and also help to restore people back to their normal function and quality of life. I'm also trained in reconstructive surgery. Yeah, we have a very unique team here. A lot of us have worked together for many, many years. We know each other's families, we're friends, and so we really have a close working relationship and we make sure that we talk together as a team, to make sure that when we have a patient who comes in, we're giving them the best possible result and we're giving them the best outcome. A lot of patients come in and they meet me and they feel helpless, and the best part of my job is just, I think, empowering patients to feel like they're in control of their care. Walking them through the process and then seeing them afterwards and making sure they're doing well. You know years later on and seeing how they've grown and how they are doing well in life. I've put this beyond them.