(slow inspiring music) - Heather's case is actually fairly typical of what we see in our Limb Salvage and Extremity Reconstruction Center. Young, active individual, unanticipated injury. Roller derby for Heather was a passion, and she broke her tibia. She went to a local hospital, and she had a rod placed, and from a technical perspective, everything looked great, and Heather went on for several months, rehabing, trying to recover, but continued to have pain at her fracture site. Why didn't this young, healthy person, with a well-aligned tibia, heal her fracture? We did a fairly extensive work-up on her. We looked at the way her fracture was aligned, and then we got a CT scan of her leg. And her CT scan clearly showed a nonunion. The two ends of the bone were not coming together. And so, we had a very lengthy conversation at that point about what to do for her nonunion. And there's lots of options, right? We talked about things like do nothing, you might do okay, the hardware might break, and if it breaks, then we know we have to do something, it may not, you'll always have a little bit of pain, and just don't do the activities that cause pain. We talked about doing something as simple as injecting the bone, the nonunion site with bone marrow aspirate. Taking bone marrow from the body, concentrating it and injecting it into the fraction site, giving the biology a kickstart, if you will. We talked about taking out the screws and dynamizing her. What that means is basically we take the screws out, and let the fracture compress itself over the rod. Almost like it slides and squeezes itself down. But getting into the technical aspects of it a little bit, she had broken her tibia, but not her fibula, and because the fibula hadn't broken, my hypothesis at least was the fibula was taking some of the load from the tibia and not allowing the tibia to compress and heal. So when we did her surgery, we took out the existing rod that was there, we actually broke her fibula, we did what's called a osteotomy of her fibula, to create a fracture there. Then we put a new rod in and from a technical perspective, we compressed the fracture in the operating room. We're not talking inches or centimeters here, we're talking a millimeters of bone compression, put new screws in the rod, and let her walk on it right away. Now, some would argue that breaking the fibula is somewhat controversial as well, but based on her symptoms, based on her CT, based on the mechanics, based on what was already done, it made the most sense. She was aggressive with her rehab, she was an active participant in her care, she was motivated, she was enthusiastic. At six weeks, she had no pain. By three months, we had her back in skates, and by four and a half months, we had her back to contact sports. I think for Heather, Penn Medicine really provided a unique opportunity, because of our approach to complex malunions and nonunions, infections, and complex polytrauma. We leverage our experience, our technology, and our various clinical partners to optimize the outcome for patients like Heather. (slow inspiring music)