Welcome everyone to the Penn Primary Care podcast. I'm your host Dr. Kendall Williams. So a very common problem we see in general medicine are issues related to the ear. And if you're like me and you trained in internal medicine, you actually had very little training in issues involving the ear. So there's ear pain, there's hearing loss, there's tenitis and so forth. So I asked Dr. Dr. Tiffany Hua from the division of odor rhinolarangology at Penn to join us and we'll talk through all of the common conditions of the ear. So Dr. Hua is the director of the adult onset hearing loss center at Penn. She's an assistant professor of odor rhinolarangology. Tiffany, thanks for coming. Thanks for having me, Kendall. Yeah. So Tiffany, as I said, we don't have a ton of training in this, so you'll excuse the fact that I might ask some stupid questions. Most of us are self-taught in primary care about hearing and ear issues because we don't get a lot of actual direct teaching in at least in internal medicine. Oh, no problem at all. Honestly, even among my own colleagues with ENT, I think many people view the ear as a little bit of an enigma. Yeah, it's actually a beautiful and fascinating structure and I was reminded of that as I prepped for this podcast. So really amazing. Let's actually talk about the ear and I just want to go through the various aspects so it all reminds a little bit of the anatomy and so forth. Obviously this is a sound receptive device that transmits into neurological signals in a fascinating way. It starts with the outer ear, right? Is there anything to say about the outer ear which is the part that everything on that's visible from the outside if you will without an otoscope but then everything into the tempanic membrane. Exactly right. Yeah. There are a few things for sure. I mean the oracle itself is this incredibly efficient structure and grabbing sound from the environment. It funnels that sound these sound waves that you're grabbing as I speak to you now into the external auditory canal. And I think this is a great place to start because it's the very first point of efficiency, right? And so some patients will have problems with hearing that start right at that point. They might have microchia. They might have just an abnormal shape to their oracle after trauma. They might have a tumor in the ear, ear wax in the ear. They might have had ear canal stenosis either acquired, you know, from repeated infections, dermatitis. There are certain conditions. One notable one is medial canal fibrosis where there's kind of this it's almost like a seroriatic type phenomenon dermatologic phenomenon where they develop kind of a keratin plug that becomes a mature scar. So you can have these sorts of hearing loss entities where the middle ear and inner ear are completely uninvolved. You can have changes to the structure of the ear canal that really alter the resonance of that sound. And that's one of the key pieces in the efficiency of the ear to do what you're talking about. take a sound wave propagating to the air and ultimately end up with an electrical signal that our brain can understand as speech. I can't talk about the outer ear without asking you about ceramin because ear wax, right? Yeah, absolutely. It's there. We deal with it all the time. It's got to have some purpose, right? Absolutely. Absolutely. So, let's let's talk about ear wax. All right. So my favorite thing to share with my patients is the fact that if you takes human ear wax and put it in a petri dish, it actually has some antibacterial and antifungal activity. So what I tend to tell my patients is that look, you don't need to remove the ear wax. And there's a lot of there's a little bit of a cultural, I think, role in terms of what people think about ear wax and whether their ears need to be cleaned. I have really polite patients who apologize to me for not having cleaned their ears before they saw me. And I I always find that a little amusing because I'm like, "Oh, actually I think you should leave it alone, you know." And so if you have a problem from the ear wax, and there are patients who really are over producers, they really are. And typically they are seeing an ENT on some kind of regular basis. But even if you have a significant episode of serum impaction, you know, one time every couple years or once in five years, you don't need to routinely put deer rocks or what whatever may be in your ear to solve this problem that doesn't exist. But if it's enough to actually cause you a symptom, whether it's ear pain from medial impaction or hearing loss, ear clogging, these sorts of things, very reasonable to intervene in some way. Do ear specialists like yourself have thoughts about ear irrigation and some of the things we do commonly to try and clear ear wax and patients that complain about it? Yeah. So, I mean, I think irrigation is it's reasonable, right? I mean, irrigation is done in so many settings and so many parts of the of medicine, whether it's in the urgent care ER setting or certainly in primary care family medicine offices. So, I would not and I don't with my patients criticize that approach in any way because I think a lot of people are doing it safely. I think that there are a few caveats though, right? There are definitely patients who have had really negative experiences. I think some of that can be just a caloric reaction. It's physiologic. There's nothing wrong done wrong by the provider. I think there are some cases where there might be some kind of technical error with the device and it actually does result in unfortunately some kind of eardrum preparation or things like that. So in general powered irrigation I'm not a a big fan of it. Gentle kind of syringe base bulb syringe or certainly you kind of take just a regular regular plunger syringe put some hydrogen peroxide let it sit and then let it come out. that's something more gentle and that's something that I do on occasion employ in my office but obviously ENTs have a number of other tools at our disposal from binocular microscopy to kind of curved and gentle picks and certainly ear specific suctions that we can use that negate that need. So I don't have objections to it for the most part but I do think there are there are some interventions that seem a little higher risk than others. When I was first in training I learned to do this. We get a 20 cc syringe or so and put maybe an 18 gauge that was usually had a round catheter on it, filled it with warm water, and then we would find a spot that we thought that would get the water behind the seramin because you want to be obviously create a you want to propel it out of the ear eventually. So, you have to get behind it with the water. Now, in our practice, we have one of these powered sort of water pick- like devices. I find it to be a lot less effective. Do you have any thoughts on that? Yeah, it's hard to say. I mean, this is where as much as I am a subsp specialist in this topic, I never do that, right? Like I never use this because I don't have a need to use it. What I will say to that is every so often I do have a patient who gets these complications from the power irrigation. But you know, do you stop doing that for like the 1%. Right? H how often are the primary care offices actually using these instruments and how often do they actually have a problem? I couldn't really say that. I know I think what you're describing with a catheter, it's it's pretty unlikely that you are going to generate enough force to actually injure the eardrum. But on the flip side, if you're not certain where the depth is of this catheter, you could directly puncture the eardrum or injure it in some way. So I think ultimately when patients are calling the ENT office and complaining of possible serum impaction, we're not, you know, sending them to urgent care or others for an irrigation, right? we're putting them on debro for something like, you know, a couple weeks or so in advance of their visit if we're able to fit them in, we fit them in. So, I think I would never kind of denigrate what other providers have had real life experience with safely, but of those options, I probably would be inclined actually to prefer the old school way you're describing as long as you feel like you're not very medially impacted and you feel you have good clearance from the eardrum. So, let's proceed sort of inward. you hit the tempanic membrane and beyond that you get to the middle ear. How do you explain the middle ear to patients and others? Yeah. So the job of the middle ear is take the sound to take the sound wave that's moving through the ear and turn it into a fluid wave that the inner ear will then process. But the most incredible thing that the middle ear does is really it's its ability to concentrate that sound efficiently into a very very very small space and accomplishes that in a few different ways. one is you know one thing that I talked about already externally right in terms of the shape and resonance of the ear canal but there's also two major drivers of this kind of sound transduction this kind of in terms of conversion and so there's the area effect the tempanatic membrane is typically in typical individuals about 17 times the size of the oval window and so there's this area effect of kind of the larger area being transmitted to a smaller area and then there's a lever effect which is accomplished by the osticles themselves and so your vibrating synthetic membrane that vibrates the malus connected to the incus connected to the stapes which is sitting on the oval window and at that point all that power generates a significant gain in decb essentially and this is a very mathematically kind of preserved relationship so that if you have what we consider a maximal conductive hearing loss and that's total oicular chain discontinuity right then you will have a consistent 60 del hearing loss so we that's how we know what it is actually achieving in magnifying the sound. Right. Exactly right. Exactly. Yeah. So, let's talk about the ustation tube because obviously that does connect to the back of the throat and that the nature of that in terms of equalizing pressure when we go up in an airplane that that helps to equalize the pressure with the middle ear, the ustation tube specifically. Clogging of the ustation tube I think is a major problem in terms of some of the ear pathology that we see. Yeah. Right. That's absolutely right. So the ustation tube, when I talk to patients about this, I talk about the fact that it is the only door in and the only door out for the middle ear space. Assuming that you have an intact eardrum, there's no other exit point or entry point. And so it is a dynamic structure. It's you know you often if you really pay attention though I don't want to attune you to the awareness of this when you swallow you'll hear the clicking the utation tube right to prevent kind of reflex of your oral ferangeal secretions into that middle ear space but certainly in patients with chronic allergies recurrent sinocitis nasoparangitis anything like that anything that kind of impacts the function of the station tube you will be very likely to experience ear symptoms whether that's referred symptoms where the middle ear itself and the ear itself looks fine or real ear pathology. And that can manifest itself in a couple ways. So you can have fluid buildup, you know, middle ear fusion, pretty classic. But you can also over time have this kind of chronic negative pressure on the eardrum that causes tempanic membrane retraction. And that will also, for many of the reasons we just talked about in terms of the importance of the eardrum in the efficient transmission of sound, if you have kind of an area that's just floppy, you're essentially taking it out of commission when it comes to its vibratory potential. And so as a result that will also cause hearing loss even without an actual eardrum perforation because it almost functions like a perforation by removing this entire section from play. The ustation tube can have kind of congenital issues. You know these are your kids who get 10 to 12 sets of tubes in early childhood and then they eventually become adults who just kind of feel like they always feel like they have an ear infection but you look or you measure and they really don't actually have fluid anymore. you know, they're big enough. They're not having frequent URIs in daycare anymore, but the ear is certainly not normal and it's not efficient. And some of that may be the angle. Some of that may be kind of the dynamic movement of the ustation tube is impaired in some way. And then you can have acquired causes. You can have radiation impact. That's something that we certainly see quite a bit in our own offices. Patients who've had headneck cancer or or even brain cancer in very specific anatomical regions where the ustation tube is in the radiation field. These are all individuals who maybe without any congenital issues develop an acquired ustation tube dysfunction. The accumulation of fluid within the middle ear is as a common issue and obviously can become infected and we call that otitis media. But often times you have purilintotitis media and then you have cirrus otitis media at least those are the terms I grew up with you know in which the in cirrusitis media the fluid is not infected and so it's just fluid in there and it's symptomatic and you know I'm always struggling with this. I saw a patient a couple weeks ago. She'd had a URI and then just had this constant sort of continued cerosotitis media symptoms with fluid and it doesn't seem like we have a great way to get that fluid out, right? We're just it's all sort of focused on trying to get the ustation tube to be open as possible so it can drain. Is that right? Yeah. So in the acute phase, especially if there is an objective, you know, you can see it's not just a sensation, but you're seeing this acute middle ear. Certainly triing a medal dose pack is reasonable. Some kind of brief steroid taper can often be very helpful for patients. For us, especially if it's really truly associated with a URI, the appropriate and adequate management of the soneasal side of the pathology is really critical. So I will put patients if they have nasal congestion and this sort of sinus pressure type stuff on a sinus regimen. And so what that entails is typically a three-step process. They'll do Afrin for the first three days only to prevent tacophilaxis. Then I'll have them do a sinus rinse. There's a number of different products out there. Many ENTs like the Nealommed sinus rinse bottle. I am not sponsored by them or anything, but it's just a very common product that you'll see out there. They're the same product that same group that makes like the NY pot and things like that. And then after they've done that rinse, then they do fllonise. After the first three days, they just start right off with the saline. Then they do the flies. If they're not feeling like a huge amount of residual actual congestion where they feel like there's something that needs to be cleared, they can just do the flise. But it takes time. You know, we tell patients that it takes up to 8 weeks for patients to achieve therapeutic levels for the flown. How much of that is truly truly the case versus encouraging them to exercise some patience with the process? I couldn't tell you for sure, but it is definitely something we talk about. For patients with either occupational concerns or they're just really not keen on waiting this out, you can think about miringtomy with or without tube placement. And so I don't instrument ears unless there's a hearing test kind of just proving that there's absolutely nothing else going on that the actual nature of the hearing loss is conductive everything matches up and in that case we can do a procedure right in the office for that. The decision of whether or not to do an ear tube really comes down to timing. I typically I think it's very aggressive you know my opinion to put an ear tube in a patient who has had symptoms for like two weeks but certainly say like three months it's like I mean at this point my feeling is you could do a maringottomy alone but it'll probably close before you're able to clear that fluid fully and so you'll feel better for a few days and then you'll feel like all your symptoms came right back because the marangottomy has healed in between those extremes I think it's kind of an individual judgment call and just a conversation with the patient so continuing our tour you know we go through into the intersection of the inner ear which is absolutely fascinating because you really have both a vestibular system and sort of a the hearing system there with the coccia and so forth. Talk about that. Yeah. So the cookia is responsible for taking this fluid wave that has been generated from the force of the oicles sitting on the oval window and creating an electrical signal that the brain can interpret for the environment around us. They can interpret music, birds chirping, human beings can identify which bird is chirping and certainly a number of languages all around the world. And so the cookia is this incredible structure that has something that we call tonotopic organization. Meaning that it is like a piano rolled on itself that there is a location for every frequency. And human hearing we say goes up to about 20,000 hertz. The lower frequencies are at the center the apex. Higher frequencies are at what we call the basil term which is at the round window. So if we talk about the fluid wave it kind of it goes up all the way to that helilocrima the apex of the cookia at the center and then out the other way and the energy kind of wave exits out the round window or there has to be some exit point or it can't propagate. As it's doing that, there's this central membrane or kind of couple membranes in the what's called the scala medium inside the cookia. And I could talk your ear off about this, but the cookia basically this fluid wave causes channels to kind of uh be activated. And in this movement, this kind of ionic movement, this passage of potassium and sodium ions just like you see in many of the cells of the body, that's your electrical current. And it gets even more exciting because the klay also sensitizes itself. So there's both ascending pathways of this kind of frequency stimulation up to the brain. But there also descending pathways. And so your ascending pathways kind of stimulating individual frequencies are passed through kind of inner hair cells. But those descending pathways from the brain actually stiffen something called the outer hair cells. So as this fluid is passing, the areas that are being stimulated by frequency actually stiffen up to make that sound even more efficient just in that area. And that's called the tectoral membrane or the organic cord. When you put all of this together and somehow incredibly your brain is able to take that information centrally and turn it into the things that we experience in everyday life with our hearing. So, as I was prepping for the podcast, there was a nice description using music and I have some exposure to piano. I would not call myself a p player of the piano, but I understand a piano, let's just say. So, just to kind of get a sense of this, they were saying that, you know, the difference the ear can appreciate the difference between C and C sharp, which is the next key up, right? Black key, but our sensitivity is orders of magnitude better than that distinction, right? Correct. So it was something I I don't remember the exact details you could probably was 100 times you divide that difference by 100 or so and that's the ability of the human ear to distinguish sound. That's right. I mean we think if you think about a piano these are pretty large steps. If you're thinking in semmitones or half steps in western music obviously certain eastern music actually has like quarter tones or things like that that are that kind of fall in between. tonal languages use these sorts of relatively minor frequency modulations all the time and but so do we. So when I ask you a question I might engage in upspeak, right? Like what do you think? And those are actually very small frequency modulations. We use them to determine when somebody's being sarcastic or when they're being funny or when they're angry, when they're elated. And these are things that these are all kind of soundbased cues. They're based in not only frequency modulation, there's also spectral temporal modulation. That's why you can have a flute and a violin play the same note, but you know that they're not the same instrument, right? The frequency is the same. The amplitude may even be the same, but the spectral shape of that soundwave is not the same. And that's what's allowing you to interpret the instrument and identify the instrument. The cookia is very closely associated with an anatomically with the semic-ircular canals which are involved in helping us define our position in space. Right. So, but they're separate structures, right? I don't fully I guess I don't fully understand how they're related. Yeah. So, this the labyrinth is located superior to the cookia. They share kind of an you know we call it endolymph or perilymph you know these sorts of they're technically separate lymphatic fluid spaces I should say there are different fluid spaces in the two areas they are related in the sense that damage to one structure will impact the other so in particular I think one of the things that we most fear is if I'm doing a surgery in somebody who has functional hearing essentially and I accidentally drill into what typically would be the horizontal canal and really damage it. Not just like a little drill, but I just don't realize at all where I am and you were to keep drilling into the membrane of snabber, they will be completely deafened. Deafened where a hearing aid won't help anymore because there's been this loss of fluid in that space. But you're right, it's not quite that simple, right? Because you can have diseases or entities that seem to affect only one part of the system, right? And so for example when people have benign positional vertigo and they have this kind of odolithic thing there's an impact right on the vestibular system but it's not like you then experience hearing loss at the same time but it does help with clues right so this is partly why most individuals view you know say vestibular nitis right we're not saying that that is a labyrinth specific entity right this is a central process on the vestigular nerve because we know that when somebody actually has labyrinthitis they have both they have vertigo and hearing loss because these spaces are connected. You and I were talking pre-podcast about how we might want to have you back with a neurologist to talk about the vestibular issues specifically and how they're all related and it's fascinating and it deserves its own podcast as we see it a lot. I saw it this afternoon. Yes. Um but let's stick to the hearing loss. Let's just go back. We've kind of reviewed a little bit of the anatomy and the structures involved. What causes hearing loss? Great question. But you know what? It's one of the most common questions that I get and I think when we talk about what causes hearing loss we have to identify that there's a few different patterns of hearing loss right and then when you get into those there are even further breakdowns but the biggest broadest categories are sensory neural and conductive so sensory neural meaning that everything that we talked about in those structures up until that oval window when you enter the cookia those structures seem totally fine and how do we determine that is with an aiogram or with a tuning fork. Right? So, people may or may not recall, and I don't expect listeners to recall the Weber and Renee tuning fork tests. I use this regularly in my clinic, even in patients who have already had an an audio a formal aiogram by our own team. It is extraordinarily informative, but the most basic concept is that in a conductive hearing loss, you will you will notice that bone conduction is stronger than air conduction. But that will not be true in a sensory neural loss. All right. So yeah, and then you know there's other things we can get into but we'll leave that we'll leave that as it is for now. So sensory neural hearing loss, tons of different causes. The most common one I would say that I see in my clinic is just it's age related. It's prescus but there's otoxicity there's trauma can be either depends on kind of what the pattern is. But you can certainly have kind of an oda concussion or you can have a temporal bone fracture that where the fracture line actually goes through the inner ear structures at any point. So it could be through the labyrinth but you will still because of that fluid loss. You'll experience a sensory neural hearing loss or you can have conductive hearing loss and conductive hearing loss could be something as basic as ear wax or it could be a hole in the eardrum. It could be ocular chain discontinuity which could be in trauma. Could be something like a middle ear mass, colosttoma, a middle ear adenoma, any number of entities that kind of block the sound without influencing the processes uh of the cookia and beyond. You can have both, right? You have mixed hearing loss and probably the most common piece of that, the two most common scenarios would be you just have an older individual who also has now a fluid in their ear, right? So they're kind of in an age a point in their life where it's very normal for them to have some amount of age related hearing loss but now they have some other problem. The other very common scenario is chronic ear disease. So chronic ear disease even though that is a middle ear process in in long form patients who have lots and lots of infections many many ear tubes over the course of their life maybe even a couple year surgeries that's very much associated with a sensory neural loss as well. So let's talk about conductive hearing loss. Obviously when we look at with a nottoscope in the ear we can see if the tempanic membranes affected we can see if there's anything blocking the ear canal but then let's say those are normal right and so we don't have direct access to the bones that are conducting the sound and there's three bones in there as you noted that are amplifying the sounds and their various motions but there are conditions where the bones themselves right those connections are decayed in some way. Absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah. So I think the most common one entities that I see are going to be odiscllerosis that's fixation of the stapes third bone of hearing there's actually a very characteristic finding on the aiogram called carheart's notch where there's a little notch at 2 kHz specifically in the bone line you know the nerve baseline and that's historically that's diagnostic and people would operate on that directly otherwise however in somebody with an otherwise unexplained conductive hearing loss. So we look, there's no hole, there's no fluid, but they do have a conductive hearing loss. We get a CAT scan in the temporal bones. Very helpful. You can find a number of entities. Sometimes you will see, you know, let's say there's like a kind of remote history of some kind of head trauma, concussion, whatever. You can have a little just enough disruption to the vascular supply that on a long period of time, 10 years, 15 years, that they develop this distal incus necrosis. So right at the incus, it's shortened. And you can see that on a cat scan. And we can actually intervene on that. we can do middle ear hearing prosteses that are made of titanium. Reconnect those bones of hearing. They're going to go from a maximal conductive hearing loss back to hopefully something much better. So, obviously we didn't talk about the bones, but you know, you have the malas, the incas, and the stapes. And the stapes is the one that's connected directly to the inner ear to the oval window. That's right. Um, with odoscerosis, is that the bone that's primarily affected? Absolutely. Yeah. So, when somebody has oscerosis, we can offer a surgical intervention electively, of course. So if they want to go a hearing aid they could called a stapidctomy or a stapidottomy and in that procedure we go under an operating microscope we divide the ankidosipedial joint and then at this point there's a lot of branching different types of techniques you could use power drills you could use lasers but the bottom line is you remove the problematic stapes you open up the foot plates where it enters the oval window and you put in a prostesis there's different kinds I use a night prostesis and essentially replace the stapes with with something that'll be more But odoscerosis can also affect the kia itself in really advanced stages. So in some cases you'll have patients who had a stabbedctomy maybe in their 30s or 40s and now they're in their 60s let's say and they're going to need a kar implant at this point because it's a sensory neural loss from advanced odoscerosis and odoscerosis can affect younger people. So I mean by younger I mean 30 to 50. It's not presbikusis where we see it predictably in older age right? So you can see somebody in their younger ages have hearing loss. Is most hearing loss in that age group, let's say before the age of 60. Is it odoscosis? Is that the most common cause? No. No. No. No. No. I would say if you're looking broadly hearing loss in general that 30 to 50 age, it's almost always it it most of the time, I shouldn't say always, but most of the time it is kind of ear infection, cold and allergy related type things. But we talked a little bit about my role at at the center for adult onset hearing loss. And that center is actually dedicated to the understanding early onset sensory neural hearing loss in young individuals, right? Because you have congenal hearing loss disorders. And many of us study this because it's very testable material and because they're young children, it's always gotten a lot of scientific attention. But we do also have patients who are in their 20s and 30s with presbikes type pattern hearing. They're wearing hearing aids very young, but they didn't have this as young children. And so there's this presumed or at least a thought on our part that there may be some other genetic cause or driver of that type of early onset hearing loss. So it is not out of the question by any measure for young people, you know, in their 30s or 50s or even their 20s to have sensory neural hearing loss and significant sensory neural hearing loss. One of my first cooker implants as an attending was in a 25-year-old. And when we say sensory neural just to go back to the anatomy here, we are referring to everything after the oval window basically right into the cookia and then the stimulation into directly along the acoustic nerve and so forth. That's right. Yeah. And I remember as a resident I was working in the ED and we had evaluated a patient who said I was just my hearing went in my right ear. I don't know what happened and the ear was normal and he had acute sensory neural hearing loss. And I remember the ENT resident coming down then taking me aside and saying, you know, this is actually very rare. He said, 'We don't see this where it's just like like that. And then he'd put them on steroids thinking it was inflammatory. But then you have that phenomenon and it occurs obviously more gradually and Right. You're right. Yeah. So sudden sensory neural hearing loss, I mean, I would not consider that a rare entity actually. I that's something I see quite regularly. It's not, you know, every patient in the clinic, but many weeks, if not most weeks, I do, you know, and granted, we are a tertiary care referral center. I don't want everybody to think that everybody who walks in the tort has it, but we consider sudden sensory neural hearing loss to be an otologic emergency. And when I say emergency, you know, I I saw a grand rounds talk where somebody said, "Oh, if you're an ear doctor and somebody says, "Doc, I have an ear emergency. Finish your coffee. Get another one. Finish that coffee, then go see the patient." But the point is that this is like one of the few things that we actually take very seriously on an urgent level. So a lot of patients be like, "Oh, it happened all of a sudden." All of a sudden and and I kind of will in at the interview stage be like, "Okay, well all of a sudden meaning like really rapidly over the course of a few days or weeks even or do you mean like like like a lightning strike like this is the moment I was watching the television show and at this minute and this number of seconds it was like that." When it is like this like lightning strike moment, your your suspicion or your concern for a sudden sensing or hearing loss should be fairly high. And we do offer assuming the patient is a medical candidate an initiation of a highdosese uh oral steroid course within the first two weeks of treatment. That's part of our clinical practice guidelines. If they fail that or if they present outside of that window, you can offer intrompanic steroids. So we'll do in the office an a transtempanic injection of dexamethasone either in conjunction or as salvage therapy or isolated therapy in kind of a you know mainly a poorly controlled diabetic if they can't get hydros oral steroids. We also actually uh scan that so they have unilateral sudden sensory neural hearing loss even if they make a complete recovery it does not rule out an acoustic neuroma. So that that's actually you know a whole story there. No. So obviously sensory neural hearing loss at least in this acute circumstance you obviously you're treating with steroids so there's some element that it's felt to be inflammatory and there must be some data suggesting that treating with highdose inflammatory anti-inflammatory therapy works right yeah there's sudden hearing loss is considered idiopathic but steroids seem to play a role for at least some of these individuals in their recovery it's the only honestly it's the only tool we've got there was a period of time where people gave antivirals and now it's actively recommend ed against by our society. And so it's all we've got. There seems to be some kind of inflammatory role that's fairly non-specific in terms of whether that's actually the case or not, but certainly I have seen people recover even from fairly significant sensory hearing losses where they might have been a an implant candidate in that year. And with a full treatment of steroids, plus or minus panic steroids, it does seem to help. But I still have individuals where they go through the whole thing and it just didn't change a darn thing. So chronic sensory hearing loss is a broad category, right? So chronic sensory neural hearing loss is a broad category including presbikusis, right? Is that generally considered a sensory neural hearing loss? Oh yeah, presbikus is a sensory neural hearing loss. Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. So when we talk about hearing aids and so forth, that's ultimately the treatment. I wanted to go back though just on hearing impairment generally in the average person, not somebody who develops it earlier in life and has a genetic predisposition, but rather things like noise exposure and how much that's playing a role in sort of the early onset I guess of presbusis. I don't know if you would refer to it that way. So I wouldn't Yeah, I would not call it a So presbikus is a specific kind of like high frequency sloping pattern hearing loss. Noise exposure actually has a characteristic appearance on an audiogram. It's going to be a kn what we call a noise notch at 4 to 6 kHz. So it'll kind of dip down 4 to 6 kHz and then come back up. This is definitely something still that I do see. I don't want to make it sound like I don't but with OSHA requirements for kind of noise exposure in the working environment those rates have gone down substantially. We do still see it though. You know you can see it in your musicians. You can see it in kind of your industrial workers and things like that but less so right. It would have to be kind of an environment where maybe they were working outside of the United States. So they were for some reason in some kind of environment. And a very notable population where we see this of course is our veterans, right? Because they cannot easily control their noise exposure outside of the training environment. What is a damaging level of noise just on a like I I have a chainsaw, I use a chainsaw, I wear aids, but you know, maybe if I'm in a rush and I can't find them, you know, what decibel level should we have concerned? So it's decibel level as well as duration. So when you look at the OSHA requirements for example, the lowest level so to speak is 85 dB for eight hours. But as you go up in decibb, the amount of time that your body can tolerate that exposure goes down and down and down to the point where there are certain volumes where they would say, you know, 15 minutes is a problem. Don't quote me on it, but like above 100 dB or something. There's like a doubling a reverse doubling phenomenon where let's say it's 85 dB for 8 hours and maybe it's 90 or 95 dB for four hours, something like that. that it just gets shorter and shorter and shorter. Like my leaf blower and those those are about 100 dB, right? So anything 80 dB for eight hours. 85. Yeah. 85 for eight hours. So if I'm using my leaf blower and whatever for an hour, that could be enough to Well, it's at least not healthy. Uh yeah, that that definitely is enough on a repeated basis especially to cause problems. But you can have like a single really extraordinarily noise exposure that causes a threshold shift in your hearing thresholds as well. Think like a grenade and an unanticipated horrifically loud feedback at a rock concert, right? Like some kind of error and you're right next to that speaker. This is plausible. And and many young people who go to these sorts of concerts and things like that will come sometimes to the office with kind of a a persistent ringing in the ear or whatnot after that type of noise exposure for a long period of time. And you said just various forms of noise exposure, acute or even chronic. You see those patients and they have a very a typical aiological pattern or aometric pattern. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. If we're going to attribute it to noise exposure specifically, there is a characteristic noise notch on the audiogram. So let's talk about the average person who sort of has presbicus. You know the high frequencies you lose first, right? That's right. What age do you generally see that? I think if there's a little bit of presbikus pattern hearing loss in like a 65 to 70 year old, I'm not jumping out of my seat. Even early 60s, relatively mild, it's not crazy. I've seen 95 year olds with perfect hearing loss, right? So this is not something that is perfectly preserved based on a number alone, but there's a general vibe. And so obviously you start to you start with high frequency. It starts to involve the lower frequencies starts to impact. What's a typical thing? You know I think the more common thing that we hear is that people say I'm bothered when I'm in a crowded room. I have a little trouble distinguishing this the various sounds. I mean what are some of the early symptoms that people have? Oh absolutely. So one of the very one very common symptom is actually just ringing in the ears just tinitis. And for the overall patients who walk in the door complaining of tenitis, a substantial number of them actually just they have hearing loss and the brain has become aware of this hearing loss. And the way I like to explain it to my patients is that it's almost like phantom limb syndrome. Social loses leg and more brain can feel this leg that isn't there anymore. You've heard up to 20,000 hertz. Our audiogram only goes up to 8 kHz. And so you've been actually losing some hearing for quite some time. And it's finally reach a threshold where your brain is very much aware of this. the issue that you were alluding to of the kids these days mumble sort of thing. It's because it's not like I'm speaking at a static frequency, right? The S's, the Fs, the Puck, like certain consonants are very high frequency. And so when you have this kind of asymmetric hearing loss in the sense of asymmetric in the sense of its distribution on the frequency threshold rather than asymmetric between the two ears, which is a whole separate conversation, you're losing that clarity, right? because you're missing bits and pieces and certain consonants that people are saying. And so that's really where clarity losses. And you kind of alluded to this earlier and this is an opportunity for me to talk about it, but hearing aids give you volume, right? They give you volume. They can be programmed so that we can kind of correct some of that deficit specifically in the frequencies that are affected. But there are limits to them, right? there are limits because at a certain point it's just either so complicated or you need so much volume that there's too much feedback or it's too uncomfortable that we cannot overcome the clarity problem and what I try to explain to say family members or partners who might be presenting with the patient is that you don't need to have hearing loss yourself to understand right we've all had that experience where you pick up the phone you know they're talking it's not that you can't hear that somebody is speaking you can't understand them and this is what it's like for this patient with hearing loss But one of the things you had said was, "Oh, you know, it's hearing aids and and that's that." But it's actually that's not the case anymore. If your speech scores are below a certain level and now the medicare criteria is 60% clarity in the better hearing ear. If your dysfunction is at that level, you're actually a coar implant candidate. And we implant lots of individuals in older age. It is safe. There have been many, many studies at multiple centers all around the country now showing it's safe even in non-aggenarians. It's not about your age, it's about your health, right? So, I might say that a coar implant might not be a great idea for a very very unhealthy 50-year-old who is maybe going to die on the table, but no reason to deny it to even a kind of a spritly 95year-old who doesn't really have too many medical problems, could endure the surgery well and is really impacted by the hearing loss. What does a coclar implant give you that a hearing aid won't? So, what I explain to patients is that you can't amplify zero at a certain point, right? So you can keep adding volume, keep adding volume, keep adding volume and the coaria cannot detect the sound that you're giving it. What a coar implant does is it creates an electrical signal that the brain can understand as speech. It takes over the role that the coia has. But it's not what God gave us, right? We have 22 to 2500 inner hearer cells and you're replacing that with like at best 22 electrodes and yet it is an improvement on quality of life. It's not perfect, but it is better. So you would usually do a colear implant in a patient who has basically exhausted hearing aid options generally is or is there a time when you would do that rather than hearing aids? Yeah. So hearing aids are a complex for some patients because they're typically not covered by insurance. I used to tell patients that they're never covered by insurance, but that's not actually true. More and more insurance companies are offering even at least a partial benefit or sometimes two lifetime devices, whatever it may be. But we still don't put patients through the rigma role of that if they're clearly not going to benefit from a hearing aid. Right? If their speech scores on a standard aiogram are 12%, 20%. I mean, these are horrible scores. I think it is you're kind of just delaying the inevitable to tell them, go spend your money on this hearing aid and try it, then tell me that it didn't work and then I'll do the kar implant. But there are definitely individuals who even their scores technically make them a coar implant candidate, but they seem to be getting by, right? Like, and they're not super keen on the idea of surgery. Totally reasonable. And you can even have patients who really have very poor scores where you're skeptical of how much benefit they would get from a hearing aid. But I would never deny a patient an opportunity to try the more conservative thing. Um, I'm just honest with them about how likely I think it's going to benefit them. Let's spend a moment on hearing aids because I know there's been some movement in this space in terms of and there's been a lot of discussion about whether or not they should be paid for by insurance, by Medicare and so forth, right? But they obviously vary. It's an electronic device, so typical electronic devices. I'm sure there's a lot of variability in terms of their quality and so forth and the uh cost. I saw statistic or a number $1,000 to $5,000 is a range that you might see. I know a lot of people go to Costco nowadays to get their hearing aids. What's going on in the hearing aid space right now? Yeah. So, hearing aids are programmed and distributed by aiologists who are some of my closest most treasured colleagues. We provide as a langologist the medical clearance for that. So, you know, ensure that a patient does not have some kind of organic pathology that is otherwise reversible or requires treatment before they go down the road of purchasing a product. But, you know, hearing aids, there are a number of companies and entities out there selling hearing aids. I want to note that there are also hearing amplifiers, right, which are not the same. So, what really what we're really talking about when we talk about a hearing aid is something that is programmable to your frequency levels of loss. This is really really critical because companies online or on Amazon wherever you can find like these $25 products or things that are well below that $1,000 to $5,000 quote that you provided but they're not really hearing aids. So when we're talking about the hearing aid space specifically absolutely you have over the counter which has been out now for for a little bit over a year and those are FDA approved for mild to moderate hearing loss. The fundamental the core technology in a hearing aid is aside from the adjustment that is is that you're putting a speaker right next to a microphone right and as many of us know there's a certain efficiency that has to be able to be achieved so that you don't get feedback and then this has to be accomplished in a way that matches various complexities in terms of your hearing loss. Some people may have very complicated hearing loss where one side is really not aidable but the other side is and so there's a number of different types of hearing aid devices in terms of the individuals who are selling this absolutely Costco Sam's Club there's Miracle Ear here USA there's all these different kind of commercial providers and then you have academic medical centers right and what I typically explain to my patients is look at the end of the day you kind of everybody's in a different financial situation and everybody's in kind of a different value judgment right it's both about however much you feel like you can afford or want to spend on this problem and your kind of comfort level. So, somebody who has kind of a borderline indication for hearing aid at all, like they they barely need one, but they feel like it might help them a little bit, they could probably choose any of these options and it would probably be fine. Patients with like a fairly complicated hearing loss and pretty poor or borderline speech scores, I would I I I gen I generally just advise them to favor the academic senators. Like I'm not trying to sell them a pen hearing aid, right? I just think that the academic centers are going to see the most complex hearing aid cases, right? They're going to, you know, or hearing amplification cases. They're going to see all the individuals with really strange pattern hearing losses. They're going to see individuals who've had surgeries, people with abnormal ear anatomy. And those are all individuals where I say, "Look, once you purchase the hearing aid from one of these vendors, they kind of own you, right? because all of these softwares can often be proprietary or you bought into some package and the transfer your care incurs a secondary cost. So bottom line is that if somebody has a really simple, straightforward, mild to moderate at best kind of borderline indication, do what's best for you. I really don't think you could go wrong. I think it'll be fine. Pick a service plan that resonates with you, whatever you want. Anybody with anything more complicated than that, I typically favor the academic centers, but as an academic physician, I'm probably biased there. Well, this is a podcast for academic physicians, so I think we'll probably be okay. But I know this comes up a lot. I know there's been some discussion with the FDA about liberalizing criteria allowing for some technological development and competition in that space that may result in some changes. I don't know what you think. Yeah, that's what the over overthec counter devices are for mild to moderate hearing. are true hearing aid devices where patients can can can kind of kind of adjust their hearing aids on an app. And we are certainly at pen, you know, there's like an overthe-c counter hearing aid visit where sometimes patients have purchased these devices, but they're a little bit uncertain of how to use it or how to program it and they don't really want to buy a hearing aid through pen. They just want a pen provider, you know, one of our fantastic aiologists to just help them navigate the device and and they'll do that too. I think ultimately if a patient is hearing better and having a higher quality of life, having less social isolation, understanding their own doctor's visits better because they're hearing better, this is a win for all of us and it's very much the mission. I want to circle back to tinitis because we mentioned in the context of hearing loss and you said it was sort of a replacement like a amputated arm if you will sound but you know we see this a lot. I mean primary care. Yeah, it's a lot. I don't know. I I don't know how many times I can't even say how of it comes up so often. Yeah. Other than having people's hearing tested. Is there anything else we should be doing? Yes. So, I want to acknowledge there's there's pulsatile tinitis and non-pulsatile tinitis. And pulsatile tinitis is a completely different entity that I would be happy to speak about anytime, but all of my comments going forward are about non-pulsatile tinitis. So this is your buzzing, your humming, the fan, the chirping kind of sounds, things that are not sounding like a heartbeat, but they're these kind of extra sounds. And then there's bothersome tinitis and non- bothersome tinitis. So I feel most comfortable attributing tinitis to hearing loss. When you have like believable hearing loss on an audiogram, right? So it's not just like, oh, you have a five decel. I mean, barely. I mean, it's within like the test retest error of this audiogram at a single frequency. I cannot bring myself to be like yes your daily bothersome and tenitis is attributable to this five decel hearing loss right so it should be a a reasonable amount of hearing loss believable and in general I find that if it's hearing loss alone individuals with hearing loss related tinitis are bothered by the tinitis but it's not like a debilitating bothersomeness when tinidis even in the presence of hearing loss is extremely bothersome this is highly suggestive of some component of an anxiety disorder And there are many many many products out there. There's lip flavonoid has been out there for a while. I do not recommend that at all. There's all these different things out there. But the single intervention that has the best scientific evidence for bothersome tenitis of any cause is cognitive behavioral therapy because of this very strong overlap. I also have no small number of patients who have tinitis and a completely normal aiogram and that often is baffling for them is an uncomfortable position for me but you know there's a number of things that can be the case there so sometime you know I screen for a number of things like are there new medications right could this be a medication effect that may not be odotoxic but still is is causing this kind of symptom if it if the timing aligns is there a change to sleep pattern sleep habit sleep hygiene, right? So, you may have somebody who is a waitress, was working the night shift, now they're working the day shift, and there's this kind of kind of physiologic stress on the body as they do this kind of switch. Any of the sleep disorders can be involved in that anxiety and and some patients are very self-aware of this and I'm just kind of the one who's saying the quiet part out loud of like, hey, sometimes I do see this in individuals who are going through something. Do you feel like this could be you? And I don't push it, but sometimes I just kind of plant the seed of the idea to see what they think. And I've actually had patients say yes. And I actually I was thinking it could be, you know, I I lost my father and I had to change my job and all these different things were going on in my life. And it's almost and not to overstate our influences as in some of these soft skills in medicine, but I think it can be extraordinarily powerful for patients to kind of have that door opened and talk about this because it's a physical manifestation of this other stressor, psychosocial stressor in their life. And then of course you have patients who actually have anxiety disorder and they just changed their anxiety disorder medication regimen and and they're kind of experiencing this as a result. I did want to ask you about pulsatile tinitis because I had a patient who had it and got an MRI to look for it. Does everybody that comes in with pulsatile tinitis need an MRI? Pulsatile tinis is a tough one. There are a lot of things that can cause you could have hypertension. You can actually have dehissence over either say the jugular bulb the top of the jugular vein or the sigmoid sinus that drains the mina system centrally. You can have certain dehissences of the skull base around the labyrinth that cause you just to hear the pulsing of your own brain through the labyrinthine system. There you can have an aneurysm. You can have an AV malf for you. You can have central venous stenosis. There's a lot of things that can cause this. But I actually do not include a just a standard MRI by itself in my initial workup for this unless they have a separate indication for it. Right? So I have like a relatively low threshold that they also complaining about like unexplained headaches or whatever. My typical paradigm is I get a CBCTSH if they haven't had one just to rule out anemia, thyroid issues. I get a CT scan of the temporal bone to look for the distances that I was referencing and I'll get an MRA MRV of the head. And this is assuming that it's an otherwise negative exam. By the way, certainly if I look in the ear and there's a vascular mass that looks like a glomus tumor, then I do the work up for a glus tumor. I will also listen actually I'll oscultate I'll put them in a supine position. I'll oscultate and palpate the neck. I'll oscultate uh peruricularly and not super frequently, but I've actually heard brewies around the temple region probably a good maybe 10 to 12 times over the course of my career. And when that happens, I go straight to the MR, MRB, and I'll typically send them to a neurovvascular specialist because there's something. There's no way I'm hearing a brewy in that region and have it not be something. I'm glad I asked you about that because I've actually seen a couple patients with pulsatile tenitis and honestly, I hadn't sort of recognized that this was different than regular tenitis and that it needed a bigger workup and I needed to refer them to you and so forth. So, I wanted to have that discussion because I was in the dark about it and maybe others were as well. So before we wrap up, is there anything else about this whole sort of area? There's a couple other questions I certainly could throw at you in terms of many airs disease and acoustic nuroma and when should we worry about those things. Maybe I should do that real quick because we only have a couple minutes. But I was always taught that many disease is when you know you have hearing loss, tinidis and sort of the oral fullness all associated that you should really think about many ears and that's if you think about many airs disease then you should also think about acoustic nuroma because their symptoms could be similar. Please correct me on all that. So miners's disease belongs in the vestibular disorders chapter and so it is a vertigenous disorder that said you know certainly people can have kind of fluctuating hearing loss that's kind of separate but a typical classic minier's patient is going to have ringing oral fullness potentially potentially actual subjective hearing loss and then they'll experience this vertigo episode and it needs to last kind of like a certain duration so it's like 20 minutes to 12 hours and it would typically occur episodically it would not typically be something that's a constant symptom. But you know certainly not all patients read the textbook and sometimes if somebody has fluctuating inner ear symptoms always affecting the one ear there are there's like about a 10% incidence of bilateral miners's disease but it would be not simultaneous. Those individuals very reasonable to refer and we'll just kind of take a look and sometimes we take just take a documented history if we can capture them during the time of the event. Many patients will typically have a characteristic low frequency sensory neural hearing loss during the event. Over time they can actually flatten out at a flat 60 decel hearing loss for some reason. But we basically consider it an idiopathic degenerative inner ear disease on pathology associated with high drops. And then actually acoustic nuroma patients typically do not have vertigo. So the vast majority of individuals with acoustic nuromomas are coming in with either sudden onset or progressive unilateral sensory neural hearing loss. Those with very large tumors or even intermediate sized tumors may also notice that their balance is just off but it tends to be more chronic progressive. These are very slow growing tumors rather than vertigo. So those are areas you know that I've read about haven't seen that many patient I've never actually seen an acoustic nuroma. I have a patient in my practice with many ears but we just don't see that very often. So it's important to recognize when we should at least think of it get patients to you to work them up appropriately. unilateral tenitis or unilateral hearing loss, you know, your exam is otherwise normal, totally reasonable. And it's 100% our job at that point. And we have certain criteria for when to scan. So a certain number and degree of asymmetry on the aiogram between two ears in a sensory neural pattern that would trigger an MRI. Unilateral tenitis alone for a c a minimum period of time. It's an option, but that's pretty consistently covered by insurance as well as long clearly put in your documentation how long it's been there. Unilateral nonpenet is is a reasonable indication for us to order that MRI. Tiffany, this has been great. Really educational for me learned a ton. So, anything that you want to sort of share with the pen primary care community before we sign off? Just uh it's a pleasure working with you guys. I mean, I I take great pleasure kind of being a part of this health system. I really enjoy this conversation as well. It's wonderful to talk about something that you're really passionate about. If you're ever uncertain, you know, I think one of the best parts of this community is, you know, shoot us an email or send a message over whatever we can do. And many times if if that gut feeling is like this patient needs to be seen, then absolutely we'll just see them. That's great. Thanks, Tiffany. Thanks for joining Pen Primary Care Podcast. And as I always say, please join us again next time. Please note that this podcast is for educational purposes only. For specific questions, please contact your physician. And if an emergency, please call 911 or go to the nearest emergency