The call is sent from Philadelphia. Another heart has become available. Another patient will come off the waiting list. At one worldrenowned hospital, deliveries like this are routine. But this is no ordinary day for Ron Meyers. He has less than 4 hours to get a new heart. Time is even more critical for William Davenport. He has come all the way from Florida to receive a new technology that could extend the life of his dying heart. Will their efforts be in time? When others say there is no hope? And I said, um, uh, are you giving up on us? And I said, well, we're not giving up on you. Explore the mysteries. It's a very scary thing to have a heart attack when you're very young and have everything in your life changed dramatically in one day. Believe in the impossible. There is nothing quite like the feeling of taking somebody's heart out, seeing an empty chest, and then the following day seeing that patient sitting up outside of bed and witness the future of medicine. Pen Vital signs. Pen Vital Signs is brought to you by Merc. And here's your host, Heather Khan. Hello and welcome to Pen Vital Signs. Tonight, we'll go behind the scenes of one of America's top hospitals, the University of Pennsylvania Health System. On this journey, we'll meet some of the medical experts who will change the lives of the patients they serve. We invite you to chat with some of the pen cardiac care doctors from this episode by logging on to penhealth.com anytime during the show and for 2 hours immediately after. You can even make an appointment. In this episode, we'll explore the realm of heart transplant through the eyes of two people. They have both come seeking this procedure as a last option for survival. We begin with the story of Ron Meyers. Myers. Hi. Hi. How you feeling? Good. Good. Your numbers look a little bit better to us. Um the line that we have in your neck is giving us a lot of good information. I met Ron just a few days ago. He has been followed by our program for about a year and a half to two years. He was, you know, coming in and out of the hospital. He couldn't do very much around the house and so he was referred to the program for possible evaluation for transplant and also for any other ideas in terms of what else could be done to help manage his heart failure. It's been a long time for me. Very distressing, very, you know, whatever. You know, doing something, if you're all right, 5 minutes later, you're laying on your face, you know, gasing for breath and you can't walk and everything. So, I'm looking for the transplant. Ron suffers from eskeemic cardiomyopathy, a condition that is slowly destroying his heart. He has had two heart attacks, undergone bypass surgery, and even had a defibrillator implanted to help regulate his heartbeat. Now, this father of three has been told that if he does not receive a new heart, he will die. I think his current situation is that he's really sitting kind of on the edge of a cliff. I mean, that's how we think about it. And so, it's really is a waiting game. You know, it's a race. Can we maintain his heart function to maintain him up until the time of transplant or will his heart give out on him and you'll have to either employ other technologies or he'll die before he gets before he can make it to transplant. But Ron is not alone in his race to find a new heart. 66-year-old William Davenport is a doctor of education who has traveled all the way from Florida. He knew the experts at the University of Pennsylvania Medical Center could offer him the best chance for restoring his health. He is a former Marine who served in Korea and Vietnam. But today, his greatest battle will be fought in the operating room. Dr. Davenport was a patient who had a cardiammyopathy, which is a weakness of the heart. And he was essentially going into shock over the past few weeks to months. And so there was no way we were going to sustain him until we got to a heart transplant. And so the decision was made to go ahead and put a device, a left assist device. A left ventricular assist device or ELVAD is designed to provide blood flow in a weak heart. Since finding a donor heart for a man his size can take time, Dr. Davenport will need this device to sustain his heartbeat while he waits for a transplant. The elvad functions by redirecting blood flow from the left ventricle through a series of tubes and back into the body. For now, it is his best chance for survival. How you doing? You all right? Despite its promising design, the elvad does not guarantee success for Dr. Davenport. Even so, his social worker, Liz Shore, encourages William's wife to hope for the best. At the time that he got up here, I went to the bedside where he was ventilated and on the balloon pump. And I leaned over the side of the bed and I introduced myself and I said, you know, that I'd be helping taking care of him and I would watch over his wife. Um, and he sort of rolled his eyes cuz couldn't speak. And I I leaned over and I said, um, uh, are you giving up on us? And he started to tear a little bit and he turned his head away. And I made him turn his head back and I said, well, we're not giving up on you. As one patient prepares for a difficult surgery, another anxiously awaits his chance for a new heart. Well, there's a small chance there may be a donor heart available for Ron um later on today. Uh it's a heart that's actually coming out from outside our region, so it's a little bit far away. Uh and we're waiting on more information to know. So, this is a long shot for him. This may be the first of many disappointments where we kind of get a nibble, meaning that there's potentially a donor for him and then it may fall through. And so we've tried to make that very clear to him that there's a good chance this may not happen, but you know, it's it's the first offer that we've gotten. Yeah. It could be a month from now, two weeks from now, week from now. So hopefully something, you know, something will come up. Just take day by day. Really, when we come back, an incoming phone call could mean the difference between life and death for one of our patients. If you would like to chat with some of the pen cardiac care doctors from this program, log on to penhealth.com right now. You can also make an appointment. We'll be right back.