- Roller derby, it's been in my life for 10 years, both as a skater and a coach. So, I broke my leg playing roller derby in December 2011. I was taken to a local hospital. I broke my tibia and my fibula and they inserted what's called a screw into my leg to secure the break. He said that my bone was healed and I was cleared to go. April and May, I practiced full practices, full contact. So, at this point in my life, I was taking prescription ibuprofen. I was taking I think it was 600 mg, every 4 to 6 hours because I was constantly in pain. I couldn't walk without pain. So, I went back to my original surgeon and he looked at the CAT scan and he said your leg's fine, there's nothing wrong with it, I don't know what to say to you. And I said fine, you're going to give me the name of a surgeon who will see me, and that's when he gave me the name of Samir Mehta who is an orthopedic trauma surgeon at Penn. I went in and a resident came in and I handed him my CT scan. He put the disc in the computer. He literally like moved the mouse like a millimeter and said, "You have a nonunion; your leg's still broken." So, this is probably at this point, a good six months after I had been cleared to skate. Dr. Mehta came in the room and he was amazing. I don't think I ever had a moment where I didn't trust him. From the moment he walked in the room, he made me feel comfortable. He listened to what I had to say. I've never felt uncomfortable in his presence and he's always made me feel like yeah, he's a busy guy; yeah, he's a brilliant surgeon, but when he's in the room talking to you, that's all there is to it. He said these are the things that we need to do, and these are the blood tests that we're going to do and these are the other tests that we're going to do; we want to make sure that there's not something else wrong with you, as to why your bone is not healing and then we'll fix you. Once I was off the pain meds from my surgery, I didn't realize how much pain I had been in because my leg didn't hurt anymore. I could walk normally. For me, it was sort of like a miracle, and I know that sounds crazy because, you know, miracles should be bigger things, but I got to skate again and not be in pain. I got to walk from my car to work without being in pain. I got to live my life without taking, you know, ibuprofen all the time. in the way that I wasn't allowed to for 8 months because I was always in pain. So, I played a game last year against a team in Reading, and they have this phenomenal skater, and she came up to me at the end of the game and she said, "I'm really excited that I got to play with you guys. This is my last game." And I said, "Why is this your last game? You're a great player," "I broke my leg. I'm having issues with it. I'm just going to quit the sport." And I said, "No, you're not. You're going to go see Dr. Mehta." And I-- right there, I wrote down his phone number and I gave it to her, and I followed up with her and her husband. I was like, did she go, did she go, did she go. Well, lo and behold, Dr. Mehta fixed her leg and she just got onto the Pennsylvania All-Stars Team, and she's playing derbies still. So yes, I paid it forward, and my life, a life in motion, is worth Penn Medicine.