(playful music) - [Student] We're learning about the Heimlich maneuver. - We're learning about the Heimlich maneuver. - We were learning the Heimlich remover... maneuver. - [Woman] The risk of choking in a school with a lot of kids, who are all running around talking, eating, is really high. - Choking, I don't know if you guys know this, is the fourth leading cause of death, for young people. Choking is one of the leading causes of injury, and even death in children that are high school age and under. Heimlich Heroes was an organization that sends materials for people to train. They are trying to get the message out that young kids can perform the Heimlich maneuver effectively, and the more people that are trained in an area where there's lots of children, the more safe everybody is. I reached out to some of the schools in the district, and asked if they would be interested in me coming in and providing this free training, and everybody jumped on it and said yes. - You never know when a kid's gonna go into distress, or an adult. Having the knowledge of how to use the Heimlich maneuver appropriately, should it be needed to be used, students having that knowledge is very powerful, that everybody in our building could help out. - What do I do if this person is super tall? The Heimlich Heroes program will send the booklets for free. Which is great, but with that you need some way to teach the students how to do it, and so I applied for a Cares Grant through Penn, and received enough money to buy three dolls. If you can't get it out while they're standing up, what could you do? When you actually show a kid the hands-on, that's really how they learn best. - When I pressed on it, it just flew out, and it hit my friend. Remember how to do the Heimlich maneuver, so you can save someone's life. - I always tell people to like learn this, because you never know it might happen to somebody in your family. That doll had good hair. - I think the more that kids know, the more that adults know, the more that people know how to engage in life saving techniques like the Heimlich maneuver, the better off we are as a community, as a city. - We're gonna keep trying, ok? And eventually it will come out. Last year, I went to six different schools, and trained over 1300 kids. I don't necessarily have a ton of money to give them, but I can provide my time to teach the kids something. Something important. Make a fist, you're gonna put it thumb in, right in that space. (inspirational music)