Welcome everyone to the Penn Primary Care podcast. I'm your host Dr. Kendall Williams. So, one of the challenging things about being a primary care physician is you train in certain things that you see commonly, but then you go into primary care and people come in with all kinds of things, some of which you've actually not had a lot of training in. And so one of the things I like to do on this podcast is highlight things that I don't know a lot about or I find challenging to diagnose and manage and bring experts on the program to talk about that. So in this case I wanted to spend an episode talking about hernas in their various types of hernas but also how to diagnose and a little bit about what happens when they're repaired and some of the complications of repairs and so forth. And for that I brought on Dr. Lesie Aorgi. Dr. Aorgi is a surgeon at Penn, a gastrointestinal surgeon who has an expertise in hernas. Lesie, thanks for coming. Thank you so much. Lesie, tell me a little bit about yourself in terms of your background and training. Of course. So, I did my general surgery residency in North Carolina at the Carolina's Medical Center followed by a minimally invasive surgery fellowship at the University of Alabama in Birmingham. And then I came to Penn. This is my second year in practice. And so my focus is on hernas both big and small simple and complex complex abdominal wall pathology like mesh infections and mesh fistulas. I also do some buriatric surgery and forgot surgery as well as general surgery and so the kind of broad bread and butter cases as well as the niche abdominal wall cases the forgotten biatrics. That's my practice. I saw in your bio that you're an engineer by background and that you had sort of a special interest in minimally invasive of approaches, laparoscopic, robotic, and some of the newer approaches, right? Yes, I did electro engineering in college and there's overlap particularly with regards to the explosion of technology that we have now, particularly with robotics and so the technology is multiplying daily and so it's great to be kind of at the forefront of all of that and just try to improve patient care with every new technique or technology that we have coming. So, it's a nice kind of background with all the excitement in the field. What we want to do today, just to give everybody a little thumbnail of what we're going to cover, we're going to talk about some of the more common hernia scenarios, inguinal hernas, and then some of the other abdominal wall hernas, umbilical hernas, and so forth. And then we're going to just get into some of the more complicated situations as well, and peak behind the curtain, if you will, about what happens when patients go to the O and what's a hernia repair look like. So, that's our plan. Let me start with something that's very common in our practices. Men in particular will come in with some right or left groin pain in the area where you might have an inguinal hernia, but there's nothing specific there and and they're just having pain in that area. And I struggle with these patients. I do an exam, I look for a hernia, sometimes I'm not absolutely sure and then I don't really know where to go from there. So often times I'll refer them to you or your colleagues. So I'm curious about this workup from your perspective. The patient who comes in with pain in the area of where a hernia might be. That's a patient we see quite often. And so I think a couple of things that I found helpful just right off the bat is understanding are they an active male? Particularly males, how active are they at baseline? A lot of times the young really athletic males are the ones that are more likely to have that muscularkeeletal pathology. And so just understanding what they do daytoday and then just trying to iron out the timeline of their symptoms which a lot of patients don't necessarily remember all the details of when it first started. But usually at least they're able to guide you one way or the other. And I think the exam is also important. I think the exam is for inguano hernas. It's actually a pretty subtle exam and it took me a while to get comfortable with that exam. And a couple of things I found really helpful is you want to do it with them standing because gravity helps you and then you also want to just first look and compare both sides. A lot of times it's a subtle difference in the size of the the inguinal area that will give you the clue especially in skinny patients. And then when you examine them, you want to have them cough of our salva for each side. And that will increase the specificity of your exam. But understanding that physical exam is actually a really poor predictor of of hernas. Then the next step for me is what is my level of suspicion? I think I'm either getting an ultrasound in those patients to rule out an oult hernia which just is a hernia that is not pable exam or I'm getting an MRI sports protocol specifically to look for sports hernas or athletic pubalgia which is the more accurate term. The problem with the MRIs is insuranceances sometimes will give you a hard time with getting those approved. So in those patients, I'll just get the ultrasound first and then when the ultrasound is negative, then I can use that to then obtain the MRI. And so that's the usual algorithm I I'll follow in those patients. So patients can have a cult hernas that are symptomatic, meaning they're difficult to appreciate on exam. I mean, you're a refined examiner. My exam is not as refined. I mean, as you know, you do get better with it over time and get a sense of things, but I would still say I'm not a particularly good cessor on exam. So, if my exam is negative, there still could be a symptomatic hernia present and that's where ultrasound is most helpful. Right. Absolutely. And actually particularly in females because we know that the female groin anatomy is different from males. And so even particularly in females and I've actually had several patients recently that came in with this typical hernia symptoms exam completely normal. I get the ultrasound they have small fat container hernas right and particularly in females that have low threshold to obtain imaging and in patients who haven't had previous surgery it's an ultrasound always. I think the other thing that is in the differential here other than athletic pubalgia which you said was previously known as sports hernia is just hip pathology itself. I have an older patient. He's in his late 70s. He's got symptoms now. He's not particularly active. I don't think it's a sports hernia, but groin pain in that area can potentially be referred from the hip joint itself or a laboral tear. Those are the other couple things that I've encountered, but I assume those would be picked up on an MRI. Absolutely. Yes. And in addition to that, obviously other testicular or scrotal pathologists too, which whatever image mortality you get should be able to elucidate the differences between them. That's a common scenario and I wanted to go over that with you. Okay. So if you do detect if if I detect an inguinal hernia on exam, let's just go over a couple of the basics on inguinal hernia. There are direct and indirect. And then we all learned in our surgery rotation in medical school that the terminology reducible, incarcerated, strangulated. So let's just go over those basics. Let's just talk about direct versus indirect hernas in the England region. I think a lot of it actually ends up being it's a much more of an academic conversation because in reality the best way to know is actually in the operating room. Now I'm good enough at reading at least CT scans. I don't read ultrasounds that well, but CT scans that I can usually tell because I can follow the inferior epigastric and see whether it goes medial or lateral to that. But in reality doesn't change how you manage them. So I actually moved away from talking about that with patients. I just say you have a groin hernia because certainly too it could be a femoral hernia which sometimes on imaging that's also called an inguinal hernia. And so right now there's certain subtleties between the two, but at the end of the day, the management is for the most part the same. I mean, there's some nuances to femoral hernas as far as how you approach them surgically, but I think ultimately from an anatomic standpoint, it's just the relationship between the hernia and the inferior epigastric arteries and veins, which any imaging study with a competent radiologist should be able to pick up. But again, they're not always accurate, especially in obese patients or patients who have really large bulges and chronically incerated hernas. So the whole floor is typically kind of disrupted in those patients. And then as far as reducible versus not, it's best to reduce them when they're laying flat. And typically when you really want to reduce the hernas when the patient show up in the emergency room, you put them in Trenelenburg or head down because you want gravity to help you. And the goal is essentially to to make sure that in that acute setting you're turning an acutely incarcerated hernia to a hernia that at least you have time to discuss options and optimize whatever needs to be optimized. Now the subtle caveat to that is there are patients who come in with chronically incarcerated hernas and those are the ones that are tricky because they've had this bulge for years and it hasn't buckled for years and so you don't expect that you're going to be able to reduce those hernas on exam. And the key is understanding the history. And if they've had previous imaging, it's also helpful too because that patient doesn't necessarily need to rush to the emergency room. If it's chronically incarcerated, whatever's been chronically incarcerated lives in that sack now. It's been there for years. And so those attachments are really, really dense. And so in some ways, it actually buys you time because those patients typically are not obstructed and typically it's not an emergency. You can optimize them as well. the acutely incarcerated or the strangulated. That's the patient that needs urgent intervention. That's the patient that it's sudden pain. It's really tender and clearly this is a relatively new onset type of symptomatology. They come in obstructed at times. That's the patient that you need to innovate quickly. I think my first experience with an incarcerated hernia that was symptomatic was actually a patient who presented with a small bowel obstruction and it was it was a very I guess I shouldn't be telling all my foibless and mistakes in in a podcast that's going to go out to the entire public but I was actually moonlighting in an emergency department when I was fairly recently out of training and it was extremely busy and I was completely overwhelmed and there was this patient who came in with vomiting and some abdominal distension. So I quickly examined him and sent him off to CT scan and he ended up having a small bowel obstruction but radiologist called me back and said he's got this huge inguinal hernia. You can't see that. And of course when he came back I looked at it and he had the probably a cantaloupized hernia in his groin. I was like so embarrassed because I should have obviously seen that. But I had learned that was the first time I'd actually seen something so dramatic that can present with small bowel obstructions and he was not complaining of pain in his groin which threw me off. He had really complained primarily of just vomiting. Exactly. That's the patient that worries you more. I think pain plus an obstruction. The spectrum is now moving towards the triangulation rather than incarceration. But again, every patient sometimes will present differently and a lot of people minimize the symptoms or really not able to tell you a lot of times exactly when things started to go south, especially the patients who have been told, hey, you can just live with the hernia and it can be observed. And so when the pathology changes from observation to, hey, you need to get this fixed. Sometimes it's hard to pinpoint. And so certainly I think you mentioned the key things there is obstruction is always a problem. Paying out of proportion to exam is always a problem. That's it came until proven otherwise. And then I think in the acute setting obviously you get a CT scan because you want to understand what's happening with the rest of the bowel. In the elective setting or when you have a patient with reducible hernas or you're not concerned about them then the ultrasound is great because again that's low radiation. It's easy to get and it will give you the answer. So a strangulated hernia as you mentioned is when the bowel is becoming eskeemic because its blood supply is being compromised. And you said that the key feature there was pain out of proportion to exam. So that would be pain, but also these patients obviously starting to get pretty sick, right? That's the septic patient. That's the patient that has redness at the groin. That's the patient that clearly just looks sick. And I think the thing that people get thrown up by is do I still reduce that hernia even though I know that there is badness happening in that hernia sack? And I think it's it's an interesting conundrum because you could reduce the hernia, but then you still have to go find that loop of bowel and make sure that that bowel is going to be viable. I think it's a matter of time. So I think if this is somebody you're going to take to the operating room and you have the ability to do that as soon as possible, you can decompress the stomach and then that's all you need to go ahead and figure it out. But if it's going to be something that there's some type of delay, maybe they're in the office and in a setting where you need to transfer them somewhere else and I would try to reduce that because again you're buying time and that bile can go from threatened to to healthy again and it's just a matter of time with this strangulation. It's not like there's a certain amount of time before the bow complete with necrosis because it has to do a lot with the patient's vascule. It has to do with also the degree of of strangulation and how big is the hernia sack in relation to the neck of the hernia. So meaning if you have a mushroom hernia, those are the ones that are much more likely to strangulate because you have a tiny hernia neck or opening and you have a huge sack and those are the ones that will kink off acutely versus if you have more room sometimes will take longer for that to become necrotic. So you you can buy patients a lot of time by trying to reduce those even those marginal ones especially if it's going to take several hours for them to get to a surgeon. Coming back to the primary care environment where we see folks that have a clear hernia on exam I'm able to reduce it. I'd recommend they go and see you and in the meantime I want to give them advice and what I usually say is if you develop increased pain in that area or if you start vomiting is there anything specifically you tell patients to look out for is I guess what I'm trying to get at. I think all of the things you said, I just tell them, hey, you know your body. So if it starts to cause you more pain or discomfort, if it's now impacting your quality of life, if it's somebody who initially has chosen to not have surgery, if it's becoming a daily problem where it's impacting your ability to walk or to do whatever activities at home, carry your kids around, stuff like that. And also obviously if you start to notice the symptoms of incash resource flangulation and so that's really all the counseling I give and just give us a call in that situation. If it's eent you have to go to the emergency room. And so we're also getting to the question that you face a lot is when to repair it. If it's incarcerated or strangulated those people are going to get repaired early. If it's reducible and somewhat minimally symptomatic then they may not need repair. And then we have the patients that come in and and really just want it repaired. It's bothering them. They notice it and so forth. These are discussions that you are frequently having with patients, right? Yes. And it's actually become a lot more difficult as the data came out with regards to the safety of what we're waiting. It just makes the conversation of like, hey, you have a hernia, we should fix it. It becomes much more nuanced. And so I just tell the patients essentially, first of all, how much is this bothering you? Is this like daily? Is this once a month? Is this once a year? And then also figure out like what type of person are you? There's people who like don't want to live with any type of problem or any possibility of a problem. If there's a.1% chance of an emergency, they want to fix it. And then there's people who like don't want to undergo surgery unless absolutely necessary, unless you know there's no other options. So I kind of gauge that right off the bat. And then based off of that then I I just give them the options of either watching it especially like you mentioned if it's asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic. The data shows that the risk of incarceration or strangulation is less than 5% in the long term. But what happens in that in those studies is actually there's a high crossover rate. So over 60% I think at 10 years crossed over to having surgery. And it makes sense, I tell the patient, because ultimately what happens is that area of weakness, it just gets weaker over time in a lot of those situations. And so, and there's nothing you can do to stop it. As you go about your daily life, all the things we use our core to do will continue to add tension to the area. And so, what happens is then the ones that are mainly symptomatic or asymptomatic, they get bigger and then start to cause more discomfort. And that's how the vast majority of those patients cross over and got surgery. It's not because they came in eently. It's because it just over time the natural history of it is that it tends to get bigger. So then when I have those conversations with the patients, most of them kind of able to decide one way or the other. And when they're on the fence, I say if you're on the fence, I think it makes sense to just fix it when it's a good time in your life to fix it and just to prevent it from progressing in the future. Before we get into what happens when you fix it, I just want to address one other question and that's having to do with exercise because I imagine the more valva you might do, the more potential there is for opening that opening and worsening the hernia. On the other hand, abdominal muscle strengthening may be part of what you want to do in certain hernia circumstances. But I would imagine in inguinal hernas, exercise potentially could worsen it. I think it's one of those areas we don't have any data. And so actually what we found is a lot of the things we say similar to after surgery we say no heavy lifting for six weeks or it doesn't actually pan out in real life when we study it it doesn't matter cuz the forces you generate with lifting and not nearly enough to disrupt the vast majority of patients hernas. So I tell the patients just monitor your pain. I think it's discomfort that should guide you. I think you don't want to be afraid of of taking care of yourself. You're probably not going to make this worse. If it's going to be worse, it's going to be worse because of the natural history. It's not because of anything you particularly did. Some patients like the hernia belt, the truss belt for the inguinals. And so that just helps provide reinforcement on the exterior. Doesn't help everybody, especially with the smaller hernas. I find it kind of just bothers them more than it helps them. But I also suggest that to people, especially those that have obvious biffs and that are very active, and sometimes it makes a difference. So what is a modern inguinal hernia surgery like or femoral hernia surgery in that whole area? What is it now? So I think we're in a crossroads because if you look at it a lot of people are getting trained in these minimally invasive techniques but when you look at what's actually still being done in America it's mostly open and so it's essentially evolving I guess is the summary of that. So when I look at all the data and patient experiences I've had, I think the summary of it is for the small hernas, it almost really doesn't matter what you do, you just have to do it well. So if you're somebody who does a lot of open hernia surgery and you do it well, your patients will do amazing. If you do laparoscopic or robotic surgery and you do it well, the patients do amazing. When you compare all of those modalities, the real difference is in the short term. People are able to return to work a little sooner, less discomfort right off the bat with the laparoscopic or robotic approaches. And that kind of makes sense if you think about how it gets fixed. From the laparoscopic approach and the robotic approach, you're fixing it from the inside out. So, it's not much destruction to your abdominal wall. With the open approach, you have to go through all the layers to get to it. And so it ends up just being a little bit more disruption, a little bit more trauma in the in that initial setting and a little bit more time to heal. So that's what we know. And then in the long run, really it's no difference in the outcomes. It just really based on once you pass your learning curve with any of those techniques, the recurrence rates are equivalent. The risk the risk of chronic pain, some studies will say it's a little higher with the open approach too and some of them say it's not much of a difference. So I think for the smaller hernas, unilateral hernas, I do the laparoscopic robotic approach because I think the patient just bounce back quicker. But I think it's kind of dealer's choice. It's whatever modality that you're comfortable with. And obviously mesh repair is superior to non mesh repair from a standpoint of recurrence and that's another conversation that you have to have with the patients. Yeah. I wanted to ask you about that is whether or not you do mesh in inguinal hernia repairs all the time or is it just an option and how is that done? Mesh repair is going to be an open repair. So that's the one thing you there's no real minimally invasive approach that's a non mesh. There's some techniques that are out there but they haven't really been proven. So I tell the patients if you're looking for no mesh it would have to be an open surgery. If you look at actually the recovery from the open non-mesh repairs, the pain is actually similar to the open mesh repairs. But again, it makes sense because it's not really necessarily the mesh that's causing the pain, especially if you place the mesh properly. It's everything else that you do and how tight the area is, especially with the non mesh repair. It's a lot of suturing of all those tissues together. Now, I do offer that for the patient, but I offer it for a patient who is ideal for it. So, a patient who's not obese, not diabetic or smoking. Um, and the hernia is not to the size that I would worry about a recurrence. And so, I I usually kind of let the patient when they come in with the mesh questions, I have a mesh in my office and I just show it to them and most of them appreciate it. And then especially because the technology has also evolved with mesh and I think we have a lot safer products out there than I would say 10, 20 years ago. And we know a lot more about how they behave in the body too. But in general, I think when you compare the data, if you remove the bias in certain centers, mesh repair is superior from a recurrence standpoint. Obviously, there's problems with mesh, but I think if you use the right mesh for the right patient and do the right operation, they'll do well. As you said, those would be open repairs, right? You have to do Yeah. Non mesh repair would be an open repair. Is there a distinction to be made between laparoscopic versus robotic? I mean, robotic is laparoscopic, right? Right. It's a conversation I have a lot too because again it's we're trying to figure out where the robot fits with regards to general surgery, gastrointestinal surgery. I think it's much more established for urology on gynecology. And so essentially I tell patients just imagine driving to work in a Honda Civic versus a Ferrari. That's the best way for me to describe. So that's the difference in the modality. You're going to get there and actually for some certain Civics probably makes a lot more sense. But there's certain things that it's not going to be able to do. So you'll find different versions of surgeons. You'll find surgeons who are robotically trained and that's all they do. You'll find the surgeons who are laparoscopically trained and don't really believe in the robot. You'll find surgeons who are laparoscopically trained and understand what the robot can add to a laparoscopic practice. And that's kind of more kind of where I'm at. And so a lot of times when it's a complex hernia, when it's like down to the scrotum or the thighs, when it's a patient who had previous surgery and I know I have to walk around a lot of scar, that's when I want the robot actually. That's the patient I'll do robotic for me. That's a distinction for a lot of the smaller hernas, primary hernas than either modality in the laparoscopic repair. If you look at the studies, it's a little bit faster. I think those studies are biased by the fact that a lot of those surgeons are laparoscopic experts and not necessarily robotic experts. They're not quite past the length of robotic. So in my hands the time is actually irrelevant. It's more about for me what the pathology is and what I think is going to be the hardest part to do and then how I want to achieve that. And so I think there's a lot of confusion out there. Frankly, I get it because I think we haven't nailed down where the robot is truly useful in some of these more simpler procedures, but for me, I think it just depends on the complexity. When the complexity goes up, the robot shines. So, when it's less complex, then you'll find not much of a difference because both patients do well. You'll find that the cost goes up from a healthare system standpoint, but that's not necessarily a conversation to have with the patient. So irrespective of how you do it, what do you anticipate a recovery for an ingral or hernia repair? I tell people about one to two weeks. Recovery just means you're going to feel close to your regular self. So for the first week, I tell them take it easy. You might need some pain medications here and there the first few days. You'll be able to get up and walk and move around, take care of stuff, but that first week just go slow. And then between one or two weeks, that's when most people put on the corner. Some people do it at one week, some take the two weeks. And then as far as like, oh yeah, I feel like I'm not really as sore as I was and I have a little swelling, but that's much better. So that's the the typical recovery. When it's open, I would say a little bit can be more variable, but again, relatively speaking, I would say by two weeks, even with the open approach, I think a lot of patients are like they feel better. I think as far as I go, being able to go back to work. So I usually say generally tell them one to two weeks is kind of the ballpark. I've had a couple patients who have had surgery and successfully recovered and went about their lives and then they come in and they say, you know, doc, I still have discomfort in that area and it hasn't quite gone away and I'm not sure if it's failed repair in some way or recurrence or if they're just having sort of postsurgical pain from the tissue disruption that's natural if you have a surgery like that. What do you think? I think it depends on how long it's been. So the definition of chronic pain from groin hernia repair is 90 days. So that's kind of what I use to guide me. If it's been less than 90 days, um I tell them just to observe and monitor and if there's no problem. So if I don't see a obvious recurrence on exam, sometimes they have a little bit of fluid collection. I confirm an imaging. A lot of times I just let those be because most of the time they will resolve on their own. And then I think when it's past the three month mark then you have to kind of do a little bit more investigation and there could be obviously multiple reasons for that pain including some of the issues with regards to your surgical technique. So you do have to do a little bit more investigation at that point. That's not the only type of hernia that patients come in and talk to us about. So as you move superior in the body you get to the umbilycus you have umbilical hernas. You can get smaller epigastric hernas. I have never seen a spagelian hernia, but apparently they exist. And then the other thing that people come in to talk to us about, and I'll just bring it up here because people ask about it a lot is diastasis recti where there's sort of a loosening of the medial tissues and and then they develop a bulge and that occurs with obesity, with pregnancy, and with some other circumstances. And patients are worried about that and they call it a hernia. So, I want to talk about all of those different elements, the umbilical, the epigastric, and maybe we should just start with diastasis recti because it's not technically a hernia, right? It's an interesting pathology. So, you mentioned it. It's a weakness in the linear ab the rectus abdominis muscles. I tell patients between your two six-pack muscles, they always get a chuckle out of that. And so, it's typically found on imaging. Incidentally, very occasionally, somebody will pick it up an exam. It's really hard to pick up an exam if you don't look for it unless it's like really big and obvious which typically you'll see those big ones in the postpartum patients. And so yes, diastasis in and of itself doesn't need surgical intervention. The first step is core exercises to try to strengthen the rectus abdominis muscles and usually that will improve it. And then there are certain patients that come in with persistence of diastasis. And then the question is whether or not they have associated hernia. And so if you have an associated hernia, then there are options to fix the diastasis along with the hernia, particularly some of the more newer minimally invasive robotic options. And then if you don't have a hernia and it's just a diastasis, that becomes more of a cosmetic thing because the insurance companies unfortunately don't really cover that. And so I send those patients to the plastic surgeons. But if they do have a hernia, then we have options to address that. Understanding that also actually the diastasis is a marker for hernia recurrence and so you do have to do something either you have to place a decent sized piece of mesh or you have to pleate or sew the diastasis you have to do something just a repair with sutures alone is a higher risk of recurrence in those patients with diastasis and a hernia. So an epigastric hernia is a smaller hernia sort of in that same area but as opposed to sort of a broad-based bulge that you might see with diastasis. My understanding is it's usually a little bit more focal and smaller. Yes. It's typically a herniation of the prepar fat through the abdominal wall. So sometimes unlike the umbilical hernas, it's not necessarily the easiest to diagnose because sometimes especially in obese patients, you don't necessarily feel the obvious bulging because again you have all that subcutaneous fat but they will have kind of focal tenderness and discomfort there. So that would be epigastric hernia. Anywhere above the umbilycus technically is epigastric and then you have your umbilical hernia and then below that you have your super pubic hernas and all kind of along the spectrum. And you mentioned the spigan hernas within the class of the lateral hernas or the flank hernas. So all of those I would say manage similarly as far as the walk up and the the operations are tailored to the hernas but the pathology and pathophysiologist by and large the same. Do we have to worry about incarceration and strangulation in those abdominal wall hernas as much as we do in the inguinal area? So that is not as strong for those abdominal wall hernas. There's some data that suggests that similarly to the inguinal or hernas that watchful waiting is safe and the risk of incarceration or strangulation is anywhere 5% is kind of the number I tell patients if you look at the studies it's up to 8% but it's 5% for some of the good studies. We don't have as strong of data. is not as properly controlled as for the inguinal hernas, but we kind of extrapolate that to say that it is safe for those minimally symptomatic to asymptomatic hernas. The thing that's interesting though is I think one of the really old studies that was looking at this mentioned that the size matters as far as the risk of incurration or strangulation. So actually when you have a really small hernia, it's a good thing. Um if you have a really big hernia, it's a good thing. It's the ones in between that have the risk. And so the study I think came out and said anything less than 2 cm in width or greater than 7 cm in width is protective. And it makes sense because if you imagine how much room that a bow be able to sneak through if it's 1 cm it's really hard to imagine that you can get a hernia which is like a partial knuckle not the whole bowel but part of the wall of the bowel sneaking through but that's relatively rare. And then when you have hernas big enough again, you don't have the ability to strangulate because there's so much room for stuff to go in and out. And so it's those moderate size ones that typically will get patients in trouble. So it's 2 cm to 6 centimeters. Just curiosity, how do you do that measurement? Typically, it's the width. The width is much more important than the length because the width has a lot more to contribute as far as if you think about the cylinder of the abdominal wall. So the width is typically the most important. And now we have all these advanced measurements for metric data and surface area and stuff like that that we also can use at time. But I think for the most part for practical purposes the width is the key. That's what will determine the degree of the extent of the repair that's needed. Going back to an earlier point, it sounds like abdominal wall hernas do still have a risk of incarceration and strangulation and that should not be ignored. I'm usually reassuring patients about that, but it sounds like maybe I shouldn't be reassuring them, right? I think it's similar to the inguinos. I think especially when they have bowel, even if you have a reducible abdominal wall hernia, vententral hernia, and they have an image and they have a loop of bowel in it because a hernia is a dynamic process. You reduce it in the office, they leave the office, it pops back out, right? And so you have to understand like if you see bowel in that hernia then you do want to probably address that sooner rather than later. The ones that have fat containing hernas those are the ones that like are somewhat reassuring but it's not completely reassuring because again you can have fat in there one day and then the next day whatever activity they do or position they take something else replaces the fat. But we're still trying to figure out what increases the risk of triangulation. There's some like ratios that are published between the size of the hernia sack and the hernia neck. Again, that concept of like a mushroom hernia is more dangerous and than a volcano hernia, I guess. But again, those studies are not perfect. So, in general, you do still have to kind of counsel the patients. Who should we be referring to you when we pick up an abdominal wall hernia on exam? Will it be umbilical or epigastric or something? Who do you think we should send you? I think all of those. I mean, cuz again, I think the patients, some of them, especially when they're healthy and in the office and well nourished, that's the time to fix those. It's not when they've bounced around and been through a couple emergency room visits or those patients, I think the healthier they are, if they have something that needs to be addressed in general. I tell them do it when you're healthy and nourished and you have time in your life to do this because you want a one and done durable repair. And so I think all those hernas I encourage people to just send them over whether or not they have imaging it doesn't necessarily matter because some of those patients if you have an obvious small to moderate size abdominal wall hernia especially a patient that's not obese don't need imaging you know that's physical exam and then from physical exam you can talk about their options. So, I try to just make it simple because sometimes I think there's a trigger to get more testing. But a lot of times if you have a good exam, that's all you need to to kind of have that conversation with the patient. The recovery from an abdominal wall hernia is about the same as an inguinal hernia. Is it more complicated? I would say it's probably for the small abdominal wall hernas, it's somewhat the same with the caveat that because you do have to actually suture closed the abdominal wall defect as opposed to inguinal hernia where we don't suture the area because we don't want to injure the nerves. So we just place a barrier mesh for the abdominal wall hernas. We have found that if you just leave the opening alone and place a mesh, the risk of the recurrence goes up. And also the function of the abdominal wall is not as good as when you close the defect and then place the mesh. And so I think that closure in the short term causes a little bit more discomfort. But I still tell people I think the same timeline as far as recovery, one to two weeks. I do find that they tend to need a little bit more analesia. But I think in general you can manage that with we do a block in the operating room that lasts for a couple of days and takes that edge off and minimizes the need for the cotics. So for the bigger hernas is different and the bigger hernas when you have to do a full abdominal wall reconstruction they will feel the repair more and so you have to kind of guide those patients through. Those patients need a little bit more time off of work and things like that. managed a couple patients in the last few years with sort of complicated abdominal wall hernas and sometimes they've had repairs the mesh has got infected which I know is a complication particularly of non-biological meshes right and it's had to be removed and then so they're left with a bigger defect and so these can get kind of into the disaster range where it can be a really challenging situation but I imagine being at Penn these are the kinds of people that you're having to manage Yes. And then that's the whole spectrum of hernia and that's where we talk about hernia specialist or abdominal wall specialist, right? Most of the hernas are managed by general surgeon. It's kind of like diabetes and primary care, right? Most diabetes, type two diabetes is managed by primary care. You don't need an endocrinologist to manage type two diabetes. Similarly, you don't need a hernia specialist to manage the majority of the inguinals at the abdominal wall hernas. It's the ones that are complicated. They've had multiple surgeries. They've had mesh removed and replaced and those are the ones that need to be in specialized centers that can handle that complexity. The mesh conversation is important. We're learning more again about it. You can get a mesh infection with any type of mesh actually. It's not necessarily exclusive to permanent mesh. You can get absorbable meshes get infected too. And so it's more to do with the patient risk factors as well as the surgical details as well. When you have an injury to the bowel that will increase the risk of image complication. When you have patients who are not optimized or unable to be optimized, obesity, smoking, diabetes, etc. immunosuppression, all those things will play even if you do a perfect repair. That's why those minimally invasive techniques have become more and more viewed upon favorably because you just avoid the risk of the wound complications that you have with these big open techniques. And so that has helped especially when the patient's higher risk that that's when again you you see those techniques shine because you providing a huge benefit as far as just avoiding that abdominal wall taking a what would be a 15 cm incision and making it three 2 cm incisions that makes a difference for the high-risisk patients. So even these patients who have failed her repairs and you have to replace the mess you can still do that laparoscopically. robotics specifically. Now, remember the Ferrari is what I needed for this one. So, the laparoscopic is not going to cut it when it starts to get more complex. And so, yes, I was now there's certain patients who either they've had too much surgery in the past, the scar tissue is too much, and you're going to have to remove a huge piece of mesh. And it's all about understanding the nuance of what they've had done already, and what does the abdominal wall look like when you see them. But whenever they're candidates for a minimally basic approach, that's what I do. I took a 82 year old female and I did little inversive approach for her. She left the hospital in two days and she's home and happy with her grandkids. And so that's when you see the technique shine is the high-risisk patients. But again, there are certain patients you have to use your judgment and there's certain patients that are not candidates for minimally invasive. I'm curious about how available robotic is in the general surgery community or is it really a very specialized thing at places like Penn or some of the other regional centers? So, a lot of hospitals are invested in it. I think it's not necessarily exclusive to specialized centers. I think what you'll find is a mix of essentially perspective on the robot and so ultimately it's a tool like any other tool and you have to understand the limitations of it but yet it just extends your ability to do minimally invasive surgery and that's all it is. I think for general surgeons again there's different types of general surgeons and so I think that's why you see the data so all over the place because it's very heterogeneous like what's being studied and who they're studying and it's a tool that I think it extends your ability to take the high-risisk patient through a complex operation but it definitely is something that it's expanding as far as access to the robots hospitals have to figure out the economics of it it's definitely an investment from a hospital side, but the benefit of that is decrease your readmissions and reoperations and decrease your complications and also improve the patient experience. I just want to finish by asking you where you practice if somebody wants to refer a patient down to you. So, I'm currently at Pennsylvania Hospital and my office is at Pen Medicine Washington Square. I do have access to the other two hospitals, but I primarily have my practice at Pennsylvania Hospital. I think Penn has distributed its expertise among the three hospitals in different fields and I love Pennsylvania Hospital. I hope you're enjoying it too. It's kind of a really cool place. I have two kids who were born there. It's the oldest hospital in the country. It's really a cool place. It's an amazing place and like I said, every place has different flavors and so whenever I go to the other two hospitals, I'm always learning something new, something that's different. But yeah, it's an amazing ecosystem to be a part of and with all the resources spread out across the three hospitals and it's a great place to work. So, I've enjoyed it. Leslie, thank you so much for coming on. This is something I didn't know a lot about and I just going to have a podcast about it because I figure other people also have questions. So, I I'm sure the pen primary care podcast community to the extent we have one will appreciate you coming on. Of course, kind of. Thank you so much. And I hope everybody who listens to this gets something from it. The key thing is understanding that hernas come in different shapes and sizes and flavors and we're learning a lot more and the management has gotten a lot more complex than what it was 10 20 years ago and that's also what's driving some of these. You look at the surgery community like everything else in surgery it's getting more specialized. So there's more and more hernia fellowships out there for people who just want to come out and do hernas because the technology and the different tools in the toolbox are expanding rapidly faster than the general surgery residency will be able to provide you. So I think that reflects itself in this conversation and you've taught me things. I'm going to be sending you more patients now because I have some abdominal wall hernia patients with other issues and it hasn't been the highest priority. But now I think I'm going to pay attention more and make sure I get them down to you. Thank you. And with that, thank you to Lesie for joining the Pen Primary Care podcast. And thank the audience, too. Please come again next time.