It started out with just a little bit of pain after I would work out, after I would run. We all thought it was just a stress fracture or just some sort of, you know, running related injury. You don't know what you have until it's gone. things I used to take for granted, like just walking a few blocks down the street to the grocery store and carrying groceries home, I can't do anymore. I can't go to the store, go shopping, go to a museum, go to the library, and that's, you know, pretty hard on my life. I went to see a doctor. He looked at the MRI and he came back and the first thing he told me was, "I have good news and bad news. Which one do you want to hear first?" And I said, "You know what? Give me give me the bad news first." And he said, "The bad news is you're going to need surgery. The good news is you live in a city and you have access to a hospital where it's just the right person to do it." Jenny came to us with avascular necrosis which means for some reason the blood supply to the bone in the femoral head that is the the ball of the ball and socket of the hip joint. The blood supply to the ball of the hip is lost and subsequently the bone dies. This is creating pain and if the condition goes on long enough the hip can collapse. She had an X-ray and an MRI that revealed a significant lesion in her femoral head, but the head had not collapsed. And so she was deemed an excellent candidate to undergo the vascularized fibular graft procedure. Free vascularized fibular grafting is this crazy procedure where they are essentially going to take a part of my fibula along with its artery and put it into my hip. And then once they restore the blood flow, the idea is the blood will come back to the hip where it has been interrupted before and then the hipbone can grow back naturally with a surgery this large. I had my doubts. I really considered a hip replacement because it's so easy. So many people get hip replacements. It's just a few weeks recovery in and out of the hospital in one day and your life is back to normal. But with a free vascularized fibular graft, six months of my life is going to be interrupted. These total hip replacements as we call them could be performed. But even in the best of circumstances, say in a patient that's 25 or 30, that hip is going to need to be revised maybe once, twice, sometimes three times. If we do a vascularized fibular graft and that operation works when the patient's 25, there's living bone instead of dead bone, it's highly likely the patient can have that hip for the rest of his or her life. He said, "Look, I truly believe this is the best course of action for you. It will give you the best quality of life. He is one of the only people in this country that actually does this operation. So, I decided he knows what's best. That's why I'm going ahead with the surgery. All right. Things will go well. Okay. We've discussed it. Yes. Benefits. And it's just an anxietyprovoking time. I know. But we've done this many times before. Yeah. We'll have a good experience today and give you a new hip. Yes. Okay. Uh-huh. I'm ready. All right. All right. We'll see you in a little bit. Okay. Thank you. So uh on the vascularized fibular graft we have the fibular head we have the lateral malus. So this section of fibula is probably what we're going to be taking after the procedure. Dr. Levan did come in to speak to me. His exact words were picture perfect. I remember and I felt such a relief that everything had worked out. He said it could not have gone more perfectly. It's a lengthy recovery process. I'm nonweightbearing for 3 months. I'm partial weightbearing for the next 3 months. But it is what it is. And in the long run, I'll be much happier. How do you feel, Jenny? Good. First time leaving my apartment. Look great. NBA. I remember that day. I was so nervous. Perhaps something went wrong, you know? Perhaps I'd have to get a hip replacement. I had no clue what he was going to tell me. There were so many worst case scenarios in my head. Where are we? So, how's the hip feeling? Good. Honestly, great. No pain. Let's get you on the bench here. He took out the Doppler. He tried to listen to make sure that it was still pumping cuz that's the most important part of the surgery. It's even better than before. Mhm. That was certainly one of the most nerve-wracking moments of my life when he finally found it. Just such a sigh of relief. He said everything is progressing as he had hoped, even better than he expected. And so I'm officially cleared to start weightbearing and eventually on my journey to start walking again. It's been 7 months since the surgery and I am far better than I ever dreamed I would have been. I am walking around. I'm working full-time now. I am able to visit my friends, go out with them in the city. I resigned up for my gym membership, which is extremely exciting. I am so excited to be able to be active again like a normal person after all this time. I feel so lucky that I happened to be a student at Penn right when I had this condition and Penn is one of the only hospitals that offer this surgery. I mean truly, what are the odds? This is really just a huge stroke of luck for me because if I went to any other hospital, I'm sure they would have just had me do a hip replacement. Thinking about the time you spend in recovery as an investment for your future, I think that really helps you get through it. Like all investments, it's risky. You don't know what the outcome is going to be. But now I can see that the outcome was the positive that I expected 100 times over. It was so worth it. Every day I can still feel my hip getting stronger and that gives me so much hope and I'm so grateful and excited for the future.