Jaclyn: I ran my first marathon when I was 17 years old. Ever since then, I was kind of bitten by the distance running bug. About a couple of years ago, I went for an "easy" 12-mile run and noticed that after the run, my hip, my right hip, just didn't feel normal. The pain was so real that it got to the point that my boyfriend had to drive me to work because I no longer could walk a couple blocks to work. So, I went to Penn because I know how strong they are and how much they really do care about their patients. - At Penn Medicine, we've developed the Penn Center for the Female Athlete which is the only truly multidisciplinary center in the region, and it's one of the few in the entire country dedicated to the unique needs of the female athlete. Jaclyn came to us as a second opinion after having been in pain for about a year. She had a tear in the anterior portion of her acetabular labrum. She had worked very diligently with a physical therapist at Penn Medicine. So, while she gained a lot of core strength and improved her biomechanics, her pain was still limiting her in terms of her return to running. We decided that the next best course of action would be to have a surgical consultation with Dr. Kamath. - She was an excellent candidate for the surgery based on the nature of the severity of the injury but also that she had really exhausted a lot of the traditional nonsurgical options that we offer as a comprehensive approach to treating patients with hip pain. Surgery went just as planned. We were able to achieve the repair of the labrum as well as decrease the areas of impingement within the hip. So, she went through it with flying colors. Jaclyn: I'm competitive by nature. I'm going to fight hard for anything that's worth fighting for, but the thing is, my doctors and my therapists at Penn fought right alongside of me. So, we were a team. I didn't even realize how limiting the pain was until now that I'm able to do so much more than I used to be able to do. I just knew in my gut this is the right thing for me, and I haven't looked back since.