Welcome to the podcast series from the specialists at Pen Medicine. I'm Melanie Cole and today our discussion focuses on heated intraariteneal chemotherapy or HIPPA. Joining me is Dr. Noir Latif. He's an assistant professor of gynecologic oncology and the surgical director of the living donor uterus transplant program at Penn Medicine. Dr. Latif, it's such a pleasure to have you with us today. I'd like you to speak about what exactly HIPPA is and what is its place in the care of patients with ovarian cancer. Thank you for discussing with me that topic. Hyperothermic intrapersonal chemotherapy or we call it hipek is essentially one of the treatment option that we offer patient with ovarian cancer. The treatment for ovarian cancer is a combination of surgery to remove the cancer cyto reductive surgery and chemotherapy. The data that had been published has shown that the addition of H high during the surgery has shown that it's beneficial for patient in terms of their overall outcomes. So essentially H high is the administration of heated chemotherapy at the time of the surgical resection and the debulking of ovarian cancer. So is this typically done as an adjunct to what we think of as regular chemo or cytoreductive surgery? How does its mechanism of action enhance these therapies in patients with ovarian cancer? And you said it was done during cytoreductive surgery. So explain a little bit about this process. How does this work? The answer to your first question, it's an adjunct to the chemotherapy that we give you regularly before or after surgery. Essentially the way we do it, the way we describe the standard of care is to do the cyto reductive surgery, do the resection of the tumor and then the second phase of that surgery essentially doing the hipek the additional 90 plus minutes of administration of chemotherapy into the abdominal cavity at the end of the surgical resection of the cancer during the debunking surgery for ovarian cancer. Going back to your question about the mechanism of action, there are so many research and theories about how it works. But essentially the idea behind its effect is mainly that the absorption of the chemotherapy through the peronial surfaces increase significantly when you administer it directly to the peronium and also that can have significant effect on the cancer cells but also can minimize the toxicity systemically because has minimal absorption to the patient system. the effect of the heat. So we are heating the peronal cavity to 42 degree that has shown it increased the absorption of the chemotherapy and also has shown that it can potentiate the effect of chemotherapy on cancer cells. Thank you Dr. Latif for this fascinating information and by 42° you meant Celsius which would be 107 degrees Fahrenheit. And Dr. Latif speak about patient selection. Who is this indicated for at this point? At this point there are two main group of patient that we at least evaluate them for HIPPE. The first group of patient is patient who had new aduant chemotherapy for ovarian cancer for epithelial ovarian cancer. So patient who received three to four cycles of chemotherapy for ovarian cancer. Then we are preparing them for the interval cytooductive surgery. This is the group of the patient that we will evaluate for the benefit and the use of hipek. There are more specific criteria for these patients to be included for the evaluation for hipek at the time of their interval debucking surgery. The second group of patient is usually the patient who have unfortunately a recurrence of ovarian cancer and we also give them chemotherapy to treat that and then we are planning and aiming for further cyto reductive surgery that's has also benefit to patient to offer them hbec in that setting. So can the timing be shifted I mean it takes place during the surgery whenever that happens right? Exactly. So the timing is usually we go for the surgery and as long as we achieve the optimal resection and debulking of the cancer then we offer hipek in in in that setting because hip peek is pretty intense Dr. Latif can it be done a second time in patients who are refractory to the standard of care treatments? It's a very good question. So far we don't have any data to support that. I think we try to offer hipek one time which is like at the time of the interval cyto reductive surgery or in the time of the recurrence. There's no data published on the concept of repeating hipek and whether there's any benefit from doing that. Then let's talk about the side effects. We've all heard about those for chemotherapy. Now speak about what the patient goes through if they undergo hip peek therapy and how are these managed. One of the side effects of hipek is the delayed sort of the bowel function alas. Also it can affect the kidney function. It can sometimes cause kidney damage that we have to monitor for. And in that situation we make sure that we keep the patient and the kidneys well hydrated and we administer sodium thioulfate which is a protective agent to the kidneys as we administer the hipek to the patient during surgery. Also at the time of the cyto reductive surgery if we are doing bowel resection there's potentially slight increase risk of leak from the bowel and estimosis. So we have to also think about that as we do the surgery. So far overall the side effect and toxicity from administering HIPPEC is small and most of them are resolvable as long as we make sure that we stick to the standard of administering of the HPEC. This is really such an exciting time in your field Dr. Latif and such an interesting topic. As we wrap up, what would you like the key takeaways to be about HIPPAC done for ovarian cancer at Penn Medicine and how would someone contact you or the department to discuss this? Yeah, I always talk to the patient about these options. I think we have to be very judicious and careful in administering and offering hypocient. We offer it to patient who are relatively healthy who can have stage three disease and who can undergo long surgery to make sure that when we perform and do this procedure and the addition of the hipek that they will recover well and they'll get back to their treatment as soon as possible. So we always make sure that like we have a good conversation and discussion with our patients about these options and to properly select what's the best for them and engage them in that decision making regarding their care for ovarian cancer. For the patient referral, we always tell our partners and colleagues across the area that they can call our referral center to refer a patient for evaluation for cyto reductive surgery or the option of hipc and we're happy obviously to see the patient evaluate them and at least talk to them about that option and make sure that when we offer to them that's going to be a safe option and beneficial option for them. Thank you so much Dr. Latif for sharing your expertise with us today and for joining us to refer your patient to Dr. Latif Pen Medicine. Please call our 247 provider only line at 877-937 PEN or you can submit your referral via our secure online referral form by visiting our website at penmed.org/refer your patient. That concludes this episode from the specialists at pen medicine. I'm Melanie Cole. Thanks so much for joining us today.