- This is such a great day, we're building on the tradition of the Sisters of Mercy who over 100 years ago, built Misericordia in West Philadelphia. Couple that with a 265-year history of Penn Medicine, and you have two unbelievably powerful healthcare organizations coming together to take care of the citizens of West Philadelphia. - I got a call from Kevin Mahoney about a new idea, a public health partnership to take what was Mercy Hospital to a public health campus. PHMC has a long history of delivering public health services to communities in need and we've done that well over 50 years. - Like any great idea, it took a village, it took a family. It required everyone to come together, and the inspiration was how do we take care of our neighbors, of our family members, of our community, in the very best setting? And that is always closest to home. - This campus is more than just the hospital. It's really an opportunity for us to address every packet of the whole person, their environment, their community and when we begin to build our communities, we have brighter futures. (piano music) - The existing partnership that HUP had with Mercy really helped to facilitate the transition, and now we're coming together as a resource to really serve the community in new ways. - Our hospital and the existing Penn Medicine hospitals have the same vision for great patient care, really being able to serve them both when they're at the hospital but also making sure that when they leave the hospital, they have proper outpatient care and some services that help address some of the other needs that they may have, whether it's social determinants of health or even behavioral health services. - Social determinants of health play an absolutely critical role in terms of individual and community health. And, you know, we don't need to look any further than the COVID-19 pandemic. So over the past several weeks, we have been working with the community to develop vaccine clinics. We have nurses and physicians and other staff who are really participating in these events on a volunteer basis because people feel that they want to be involved. - The staff who've worked here for years have chosen to care for this community and are very vested in the community. It's a family here and Penn Medicine is welcoming our family. - West Philadelphia Hospital has become my second home. And we have core values that have been maintained over the last hundred years, such as justice and commitment to the poor. - We serve the community. We have cookouts. We served in November, over 200 people and there was just a great, tremendous turnout for those who were going through a hard time. - My heart is into this building. So whatever needs to be done, I'm always on it. Of course, for the safety of the folks that come in here. - The passion that I have for the patient is to just listen to them and make sure they're in an environment for healing. That's what it's all about. - What we're really creating in West Philly is a healthy community. We want to make sure that we're addressing health inequities, making sure that we have patient-centered care right in the neighborhood. - This campus is for everybody. And I want PHMC's Public Health campus to reflect that village, that you can come anytime of day and really get what you need and that you feel loved and cared for. - The PHMC Public Health campus on Cedar continues the legacy that Trinity Mercy Misericordia has long held in providing health care to underserved neighborhoods. - This is really just the beginning of a very, very exciting new chapter for the community, with a lot more on the horizon. - [Kevin Mahoney] When we come together, we can do great things. And without unity, there is no community. - We're ushering in a whole new way of providing public health. - And it's happening right here in West Philadelphia. (crowd applauds) (upbeat music)