Hi is one of the most innovative treatments available today for complex cancers. And my guest to tell us about this is Dr. Yorgos Caracus. He's an associate professor of surgery at the hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. Dr. Caracus, welcome. I'm so glad to have you join us. What a fascinating topic we're talking about today. Tell us what is HIPPAC and what's the rationale for that and other intraparitinal type therapies? HIPPEC is uh heated intrapariteneal chemotherapy and what that means is uh giving chemotherapy that typically we give into the vein directly into the abdominal cavity. Its purpose is to treat patients who have peritineal surface malignancies. In other words, cancers that have grown in the abdominal cavity on the surface of organs. Uh these can be very challenging to treat by other methods. The high approach involves uh surgery to remove the tumors and then give highdose chemotherapy much higher than than would be able to be given introvenously directly to where the tumors are. This is done uh using heat to allow for better penetration of the chemotherapy into the tissue and to destroy the cancer cells. That was a great explanation. So what's the advantage of heating the chemotherapy doctor? Under heated condition uh conditions cancer cells and tumor tissue is more fragile and allows for the chemo to penetrate more preferentially into the tumor tissue rather than the normal tissues. It spares the normal tissue some of the side effects of the chemotherapy while get getting better delivery of the chemotherapy directly into the cancer cells and into the cancer tissue. So then doctor what cancers are not as responsive to traditional chemotherapy and what tumor types and cancers are really best treated with HIPPA? HIPPC is not for every cancer. Um it tends to work better for certain types of cancers. Those cancers include cancers of the appendix which are rare cancers but can be very difficult to treat by other mechanisms. Uh the so-called classic pseudomexoma peritinei which is uh the the uh development of large amounts of mucinous material in the abdominal cavity from appendix tumors is one such type tumor uh for which hypic is particularly useful. Another type uh that it may be particularly useful for is misotheloma. So we may be familiar with misotheloma uh occurring in the lungs in the plura but it can also occur in the abdominal cavity and this can be a difficult uh disease to treat otherwise. Cytoreductive surgery uh with hipek can be an effective way of delivering highdosese chemotherapy to this tumor as well. Other cancers for which uh there has been some uh role for hypic include patients with colon cancers with more limited disease uh and patients with ovarian cancer are being studied and and under investigation. But really the principal tumor types for which hipek seems to have the most uh efficacy would be the appendix tumors uh and the misotheloma. Who would be a candidate because I would assume not everybody is. What are some clinical indications and contraindications for institution of high in certain cancer patients? These are long surgeries that involve sometimes several hours of debulking surgery prior to the infusion of the chemotherapy. So there are certain tumor factors that we look at and certain patient factors that we look at when deciding about the suitability of a patient for surgery. In terms of the tumor factors, we've discussed some of the hisystologies, but we also look at the distribution of the tumors. Patients with tumors that have been dated into distant organs, the lungs or liver typically are not good candidates for this procedure. Those that are best suited are those that really the diseases on the surface of organs in the abdominal cavity but not invaded into other organs. In terms of uh in terms of patient factors, we also look at um the medical uh condition of the patient because these are long surgeries. Uh it is important for patients to be under good uh overall general health. Uh age is sometimes a factor that we use in our decision- making. Older patients may not be able to tolerate these longer procedures. So we use a combination of patient tumor factors. Pre-operative imaging in the form of CAT scans and MRIs can give us a better idea of the distribution of the cancers and help us select patients for this procedure. In some cases, uh performing a laborcopy where we look inside the abdominal cavity will give us a much better idea of whether a patient is a suitable candidate for HIPC procedure prior to undertaking it. Is it a first-line therapy or can certain people benefit from HIPC? When does it become apparent that other chemotherapies might not be as effective and then you would look to high and are you using it right off the bat or are you waiting and seeing? In general for tumor types that are lowgrade meaning not aggressive uh types of tumors of the appendix uh for which systemic therapies given intravenously are not effective. HIPPC sometimes takes a primary role as firstline therapy. In fact, we don't have any effective second line or introvenous or systemic options. In situations for which we do have more effective uh systemic therapy such as in patients with colctal cancer patients would typically undergo intravenous or more standard chemotherapy first uh and then uh depending on their response uh would be reassessed for their suitability for undergoing the high procedure. So I think it's a case-byase basis. We make these decisions in a multidisciplinary fashion with in conjunction with medical oncologists, pathologists uh who all play into the decision- making and individualized care for each patient. As a general rule, um for patients with more aggressive malignancies, uh for which we have systemic therapies, we usually proceed with those first prior to undergoing a bigger operation. In fact, the recovery can be lengthy from these surgeries. uh and so we do not want to get in a situation where a patient undergoes a big operation and is not able to get quickly on to some introvenous or systemic chemotherapy options which may be effective. Is there any outcome data on the efficacy of HIPPA compared to more traditional chemos and tell us about the patient experience with this if you would and for other providers when they are explaining this and indications for referral. So in terms of outcomes data there there are um many studies that have looked at outcomes of these patients u for different hisystologies in what's called retrospective fashion and much fewer prospective or randomized trials. This is something we really would like to try to increase to get a better uh assessment of how HIPEC may help in comparison to other treatment types. Compared to historical controls for certain tumor types like lowgrade appendix cancers, um the addition of this heated chemo seems to offer benefit over and above surgery alone. These patients were treated in the past with simple debulking without the addition of the hipek. the the the idea of of infusing uh hot or heated chemotherapy into the abdominal cavity can certainly be a scary thought for any patient uh undergoing it and in fact these surgeries can be lengthy and can be associated with some serious side effects or toxicities. That being said um it appears that the majority of the side effects or the toxicity from the these procedures probably is related to the surgery itself. uh in other words the bulking of the cancers and less so to the addition of the heated chemotherapy. Patients who undergo long lengthy surgeries with removing uh multiple cancers uh probably are at similar risk uh to those who go undergo that with the addition of the hypic procedure. So the hypic procedure uh I think probably does not add a significant amount more morbidity uh to the to the whole procedure in general. Um it does lengthen the time of the surgery add some morbidity. In terms of recovery um the these can be kind of long operations to recover from and we certainly tell patients to anticipate a couple months recovery period. Now this is not a couple months where they're not able to do anything but a couple months after the surgery where they're not quite feeling as energetic. Um they're not as motivated to get up and about and do the normal activities they would do. So um it's something to be anticipated in the recovery just like any major abdominal surgery. Thank you for that answer. As we wrap up, why is H high usually performed at an academic medical center like PEN medicine? And tell other providers what you would like them to know about when to refer and the importance of referring to the specialists at Pen Medicine. These are complex cases that really are best done at centers with significant experience. I think there's a lot of data to suggest that the outcomes both short-term and longer terms are better when treating treated by physicians who have experience um in this type of surgery and it it happens from the very onset of the of the process. So uh when we see a patient, the multidisciplinary approach we take at a place like Penn is key to um helping best select patients for this procedure really involves a multi-disipline approach uh in conjunction with our anesthesiologists, our critical care team postoperatively. Um our medical oncologist uh to to coordinate um multi- modality care before and after surgery uh and really the nursing team. It really it takes a team approach to do these. And so uh that's something we can certainly offer at Penn. What I would would suggest if you have patients for which HIPPC is even a consideration uh early referral to best assess them because uh the the initial approach is often times important in terms of coordinating the overall care of these patients. Great information. Absolutely fascinating topic. Dr. Kacus, thank you so much for joining us today. That wraps up this episode from the experts at Pen Medicine. Head on over to our website at penmed.org. for more information and to get connected with one of our providers. If you found this podcast informative, please share with other providers, share on your social media, and be sure to check out all the other interesting podcasts in our library. Until next time, I'm Melanie Cole.