I chose Penn Medicine because I felt like there was really a commitment to women's health and improving the experience and the care for underserved women, which has been true every day. And I feel like that comes from the very top from the CEO, from the leadership down, about improving our programs, about reaching out to community, about partnering, to sort of figure out how we reduce the rates of these significant complications for women. My name is Dr. Elizabeth Howell and I am Chair of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology for Penn Medicine. The main focus of my work here at Penn is to run this amazing faculty who are incredibly talented researchers, educators, and most importantly, clinicians. Innovation is such a part of the culture here. There's a fantastic center of innovation and we utilize that center of innovation in our everyday clinical care. Coming up with these platforms about how to address a specific clinical need, how to use technology to improve the experience for patients. So you could partner with innovation in terms of research or in terms of clinical care. I think that's something that makes me very excited about obstetrics and gynecology at Penn Medicine. I'm very excited to collaborate and work with a women's health service line, which is the idea of really pushing this out across our entire health system. We need to learn from every hospital in our system. We are lucky enough to have six hospitals right now. Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania can share some of the lessons that we do well. For example, in labor and delivery, certain things, how we address hypertensive emergencies, et cetera. Then there are things we can learn from Princeton about what they do around a specific issue in women's health. So there's this opportunity of sort of a learning lab with these six hospitals to really learn from each other, to promote high quality care across the system, to try to share best practices, to make sure that we're all serving our patients to the best of our capability. And in addition, is this sort of learning from each other which I think many people in the health system are committed to.