The medical school at the University of Pennsylvania was the first one in our country. It was founded before our country was formed in 1765. This is a place that is full of energy. It's alive with innovation, imagination, and just a lot of caring and good spirit. The Pearlman School of Medicine is a pioneering institution. Breakthroughs like the Philadelphia chromosome, the discovery of gene therapy and a cure for blindness, chimeriic antigen receptor cart T- cell therapy for cancer. These breakthroughs have become almost routine here. We have amazing students here and our faculty are dedicated to educating the next generation of physicians. From day one, they aren't trying to tell you what kind of doctor you want to be. They want to hear your vision of what that doctor is. Penn is full of leaders in their field, and that's amazing and great. But it's also full of people who want to teach, who are excited to inspire the next generation of physicians. Coming out of the Pearlman School of Medicine, you can walk into any program and feel that you're well prepared to begin its residency program. There is no better school in America for actually preparing you for residency. This is a day you'll remember for a very long time. If you look at our match list, it's not rivaled anywhere. Our students perform spectacularly in the match. We're trying to engage our students right now in technological advances in education. Any med school in the country can teach you the book stuff, but I think what really sets Penn apart is the amazing clinical training we've got. From pretty much day one here, you're ultrasounding. We also have a very active simulation space and standardized patient program where our students work with patient actors to practice medicine and also to be evaluated in their clinical skills. Going into residency, that really was empowering to know that I can do this. I've had this experience. Penn's campus is amazing for our medical students. We have a children's hospital. We have Presby. We're also building a new hospital that will be absolutely state-of-the-art. So on one space, our students can get that rich clinical experience right here. We have some students that are going to be clinicians. We have others that are going to be scientists. We have still others that are going to be entrepreneurs and leaders in politics and in advocacy. There are 12 different types of graduate school campuses that are located on this campus within walking distance. They encourage you to take classes at different programs. We as a medical school see it as our mission to promote and encourage and enable students to pursue those. I feel like I'm not just becoming a cookie cutter doctor. I'm becoming the doctor that I wanted to be. The houses at Pearlman provide a very important longitudinal experience for our students. Associated with each house is an advisory dean and a series of master clinicians. And so you've got the faculty and the mentoring coupled with students of different years. It's about mentorship in medicine. It's about mentorship in your research and academics, but it's also about that mentorship as a developing person and a humanistic future physician. You're with a group usually of around six students. And you work with those people every single day for your first year and a half of your preclinical time. They support each other through learning, through personal issues, through their professional endeavors, and that's pretty amazing and I think unique to our environment. Medicine as itself is a team sport. Every day my job is to convey information to other consultants, to other doctors. The learning teams really set you up to be successful at doing that. It was really exciting to me to see a class where people came from different backgrounds and different countries and different industries and we were all going to become physicians together. One of the things we really pride ourselves on is creating a class of future physicians that will reflect our society. Every day you meet people from all walks of life, different incomes, background, ethnicities, religions, and I need to be able to communicate with them and relate to them. Diversity is fundamental to how we teach. It's fundamental to the medical student experience. It's fundamental to how we prepare you to be the best physician you can. In medical school is very different than any other professional school because of that clinical component. And I think that adds an element of stress. It's vitally important that we're here to provide them with emotional support. All 750 of our medical students are considered as family. They do constantly emphasize the importance of taking care of yourself. You can actually just pop in and talk about whatever you want to talk about. If you want to go start a research project, if you want to go get fit, if you want to go to the art museum, you name it, they want you to go do it. They want you to live whatever life you want to live. Philly is an awesome place to train as a doctor. It's a very diverse community. It's an amazing city to be a student in. It's an amazing city to be a young professional in. Our faculty and our medical students are contributing to pioneering breakthroughs. It's hard not to feel inspired and extra motivated being in this environment. Every day you're going to keep learning. Every day you're going to strive to be better. I'm constantly blown away by how impressive all my classmates are. Our students are amazing. They come in with the most incredible values. They want to change and repair and save the world. Our job is to nurture all of their dreams and to make them come true.