[children laughing/giggling] Jason: There's not been a day that they haven't been together in 2-1/2 years. - Boo! Boo! Valerie: I take moments where I try to step back and look at them and appreciate the small details because they are growing like weeds. - You're dizzy? - I Dizzy. - You're dizzy. They're just crazy 2-year-olds. IVF just added to the depth of our relationship, to the love of these little crazy people, you know, and it's like any other parent in the world right now. We knew we wanted children, but at the same time, we were having so much fun. - I would say three to four times a week out and about doing things with our friends, I mean, one of the perks about living in the city. - I insisted that we wait at least a year to even start trying. We had immediate success. As it turns out, unsuccessful pregnancies. That was very challenging. A blow to the ego emotionally, and then also physician for me. The biggest hurdle really was more of an emotional barrier to realize that I needed help. I needed help. We came to Penn Medicine because their reputation is phenomenal. We met with Dr. Kalra and felt immediately almost like a team-- yeah, connection with her because she was just willing to talk. - It takes a lot of courage to walk into an office and say, I'm having this problem, and can you help me. People often don't understand the stress that women who are struggling with infertility experience. They often feel alone. They feel isolated. - She showed the confidence that I needed, that I was lacking at that time. I was really down and insecure about it, and she then took over the confidence. She looked me in the eye and her sincerity was right on point and said, "We will get this." Truth be told, the hardest part of the whole fertility journey was the waiting. It's fertilized, then you wait. And you wait for two weeks. I remember laying on the table and Jason just lost it. The radiologist tech that was doing the ultrasound, he just embraced him because it was huge, just a bawl of emotion. - Well, you've got to figure, through our journey, it's been a couple of years, and again I referenced trying to be, you know, the rock for her and strong, and maybe I got a little teary-eyed. I don't know about bawling. - He was. [laughs] - I was very, very happy. - At that moment, it's not IVF. At that moment, they are your babies. As challenging as the leadup to getting pregnant was, I thought my pregnancy was really flawless. Jason: We delivered at Pennsylvania Hospital at 8th and Spruce, and the doctors and nurses and everybody included in that L&D Department were amazing. Valerie: The first morning, the sunrise was coming over this tower from my room, and I was just like, oh my gosh, this is my family. One, two, three. Daddy... woo-hoo! Yay! Dr. Kalra It's such a privilege to work at Penn Fertility because I think we can offer patients great care and we've never been more successful in helping patients complete their families. - Good job. We have two crazy cats now that I can't imagine not having together. [baby talking] You know, you have these kids and you have no idea the amount of time and energy and love, and you don't know it until you know it. And you're living it, and then it's a new journey. I'll never forget that sunrise. And then that room feeling like, wow... - Uh-hm. - Let the games begin. - Yeah. Valerie: Yeah.