- Hi. My name is Kim, and I'm a pancreatic cancer survivor. But that's not really who I am. I'm more than that. I'm a wife. I'm a mother. And I'm a friend. [clears throat] This is my story. October 2010, I went to my doctor's and I said I just have a stomach ache. So they sent me to a gastro guy who said, "There's something there; let's just send you over, just to be sure. It's 99% nothing, but I have to be sure. I go into Penn. They made me very, very comfortable, and he did the tests. I was out of it. I get up and the results come back immediately, and he says, "I'm sorry. You have pancreatic cancer." I turned to my husband and said, "We're going to beat this, no matter what happens. We are going to beat this." [sobbing] With pancreatic cancer, usually... or they try to operate. If you're not operable, you are not cured. You have to get to that surgery table to be cured, and when I was first diagnosed, my tumor was wrapped around blood vessels and arteries, and they could not operate. So, the goal was to shrink the tumor. I chose Penn's Abramson Cancer Center because they had the trial. They had a trial protocol that I fit into. It was a little more rigorous. It was a little more intense, and it was going to make me a little more sick, but I thought it would be worth it. And now I was in for a long journey. So now I had radiation and chemotherapy that I wore 24 hours a day, and with that, once a week, for I believe, six or eight weeks, I had the other two drugs, part of the chemotherapy, you know, to enhance everything that I was getting, and hopefully it would shrink. So, I called the surgeon at Penn, and he said, "Kim, you're operable." Unfortunately, with pancreatic cancer, it's a nasty one. It has a tendency to possibly come back. In July, we found it. August 1, I started another protocol with Penn, only this time because technology is changing daily, weekly. It's changing so fast that now they can offer me protons. Dr. Metz, my radiation oncologist, said we're going to get this. He said this is nothing. This is just little. It's nothing like what you had last time, and anyway, make a long story short... Today, I am cancer-free! You need to be some place that's going to treat your cancer. Penn treated my cancer. It didn't treat pancreatic cancer. It treated my pancreatic cancer. They offer the doctors, the support staff, the technology, the drugs, the treatment, but the cure is within you. I am the one that has to stay focused. I am the one that has to fight the disease. Penn is there to help. Penn is there to do whatever we need for our cancer, but the cure is within.