Welcome to the podcast series from the specialists at Pen Medicine. I'm Melanie Cole and today we're examining lung transplantation for connective tissue disorders, the new international consensus statements for optimal patient outcomes. Joining me is Dr. Maria Cresbow. She's the medical director of the PEN lung transplant program. Dr. Cresbow, it's a pleasure to have you join us today. Can you tell us about the new guidelines for lung transplantation in patients with connective tissue disease from the international society for heart and lung transplantation and how have they evolved from the existing literature? Previous the international society for haron land transplantation consensus guidelines for the selection of land transplant candidates suggested that patients with connected tissue disease can be acceptable candidates if they didn't have severe esophageal disease that means gastroosophageal reflex disease as well as esophageal dismotility however there are numerous publications from the US and Europe particularly on esclodma which is a type of connected tissue disease showing comparable lan transplant outcomes with other patients with l fibrosis without underlying connective tissue disease who have severe esophageal disorder. However, there are substantial variability between land transplant centers on the transplant evaluation selection and postrplant care of these patients. This motivated the need to create a new ISHRD consensus guidelines specific for patients with connected tissue disease due to their underlying complexity. This consensus workforce included a multi-disiplinary international expertise in land transplant and connected tissue disease which included pulmonologists, surgeons, cardiologist, transplant pharmacies, nutritionists, nurses, anesthesia, critical care and rheumatologist. And the aim of the consensus was to standardize the evaluations, the selection including absolute contra indications to transplant and the post-rplant care. It's very interesting topic we're discussing and we're going to expand a little bit later on that multidisciplinary subsp specialty team you were talking about, but how will these guidelines impact patient selection for lung transplantation? Why is this so important Dr. Crespbow as we look at the principles for the allocation of donor lungs. Well, it will guide I mean the land transplant communities during the valuation making sure that the appropriate testing and consultations are done and making the best decision at the selection of candidates to lease. Also this consensus will improve consistency between centers in regards to this patient selection surgical and multiddisciplinary post-rplant management. I mean one of the things is that because of the shortage like you mentioned of donors we want just to make sure that the selection of these patients they are actually like the correct ones because that also will impact in having actually like a good lung transplant outcomes too. So now I'd like you to expand for us on that role. You mentioned a bunch of different team members. Tell us about that as pre and postmanagement of this population's extra pulmonary issues and why this is so important for these patients. Well, I mean the patients with connective tissue disease, I mean connected tissue disease is a autoimmune disorder. They have multiorgan involvement. So it's not just like the lung or the heart that is involved. I mean but they have also like a skin involvement, the kidney can be involved. patients like for example rheumatoid arthritis they can have actually lone involvement and that's the reason why contrary to other patients without connected tissue disease that undergo uh l transplant evaluation due to this extrainary conditions these patients actually require a multid-disciplinary team in their evaluation and here at pen we have the our patients with connected tissue disease they are being evaluated by the team of rheumatology ologist as well as gastroenterenterologist. I mean why is that? Because it's very important that these extra pulmonary manifestations are stable and won't be of concern for the post-rplant care. For example, extra pulmonary manifestations like severe arthritis, patients that they have rheumatoid arthritis and they have very actually like bad joint pains that can be of concern and we want just to make sure that these patients they go for a lamb transplant once the pain is well controlled on medications because that can jeopardize or compromise the potential rehab after transplant. Also the gastroenterenterologist play an important role in these patients because patients they need to have a very thorough gastrointestinal evaluation to make sure I mean that they don't have actually a severe esophageal disease and also to assess the risk post-ransplant of potential aspiration due to severe gastroosophageal reflex disease or due to esophagial dismotility which can put the patient at risk for lamp rejection and this multi-disciplinary sub specialtity team that we have at pen that actually is part of the longitudinal care pre and postrplant in these patients which is fundamental. Now earlier you mentioned Dr. Crespbow scaraderma. So can you tell us the recommendations for timing of referral for lung transplantation in patients with scleraderma and does the presence of this and other connective tissue disorders affect short and long-term outcomes for lung transplantation? So first I'm going just to answer your question about the lan transplant outcomes in patients with escloerma or other connective tissue disease. There's plenty of publications from US as well as Europe showing that the land transplant outcomes the short and long-term outcome in patients with escoderma are comparable with patients who have other intestial lung disease nonrelated to connected tissue disease and that the quality of life is actually like very good. The key is to make sure that the patients are selected appropriately. In terms of when is the timing actually for patients to be evaluated, early evaluation is essential and those patients with connective tissue disease who have advanced lung disease uh whose clinical status has progressively declined despite maximal medical therapy or if patients they have secondary pulmonary hypertension which is actually getting worse despite maximal therapy. They need to be seen early at a lung transplant center and that is just related with the underlying medical complexity in this particular patient population and also to determine the potential risk and benefits of lung transplant. Well, thank you. Then doctor, are the lung transplantation risk factors for mortality different in a patient with scaraderma? Yeah, it is actually by the issues that I mentioned before the patients particularly with escoderma they often have severe underlying esophagia dismotility and gastroosophageal reflex which has been associated to an increased risk for chronic rejection and obviously putting these patients at a higher risk for early mortality. Another of the concerns also is that patients with connective tissue disease, they often have severe pulmonary hypertension and they are considered actually to be a very high surgical risk. So then is that why there's controversy regarding the use of lung transplant in patients like this? Yeah, there's uh patients with connective tissue disease but particularly escodma they continue to be considered suboptimal candidates for l transplant at some centers and they not willing actually to accept these patients. So who are the centers who are willing to consider these patients? Sometimes actually like centers they the willingness to accept any risk may barrier between centers and sometimes it depends on the centers expertise because there are centers that they have a very small lamb volume that they don't have the expertise from the multid-disciplinary team of anesthesiologist to take care of these patients in the operating room to critical care specialists when the patients actually they come from the operating room to the ICU and as well as rheumatologists and gastroenterenterologists and pulmonologists who evaluate those patients before the transplant. So doctor, I was reading these new guidelines. What's your role in the new ISHLT guidelines regarding lung transplantation in patients with scaraderma and who are the other major contributors? Speak about this collaboration for us. So I was the main leader in this important consensus statement which has three parts. The first part it was so we divided in three papers. The first part it was the epidemiology the assessment of the extra pulmonary conditions candidate evaluation and selection criteria. The second part was focused on the cardiac manifestations the surgical preoperative operative and post-operative challenges and management. And the last paper it was in pharmarmacology medical and surgical management of post-rplant extrainary conditions. So I'm very fortunate to have worked with great international land transplant colleagues. I'm particularly honored for this consensus to have had a significant pen representation from our multid-disciplinary expertise team of transplant pulmonologist nurses surgeons cardiologist rheumatologist nutritionists anesthesia critical care and pharmacies. Well needed consensus will help the land transplant communities during the evaluation, selection and management of patients with underlying connected tissue disease. Thank you so much Dr. Crespbow for joining us today. Such an interesting statement. What a great topic. To refer your patient to Dr. Crespbow at the pen lung transplant program of Penn Medicine, please visit our website at penmed.org/refer or you can call 877-937pen. That concludes this episode from the specialists at Pen Medicine. Please remember to subscribe, rate, and review this podcast and all the other Pen Medicine podcasts. I'm Melanie Cole.