- I've lived with lung cancer for seven years. I started with a cough, a dry cough. I thought okay, I've picked up, you know, a cold or whatever, and I went to the doctor and he came back and he said to me, "You know, it looks like pneumonia" and I went fine, okay, what do we do. He said antibiotics. So, I took the antibiotics and I came back in 10 days as I was asked, and he did another x-ray. We were kind of hoping that it was, you know, stage 2 or 3. When they told me it was stage 4 cancer, I was scared. I felt lost, and I realized that how I reacted to it was really important because I wanted the best. I didn't want to go to someone and have them make a mistake. My life was depending on this. When you have stage 4, your life depends on research. At Penn Medicine, I was offered a clinical trial that I wouldn't have gotten anywhere else. They were looking for a certain mutation, and I was a candidate. And it meant that I would be most likely be successful with it. When you have cancer, you do not have control. But with the treatment, I got some control because it was explained to me and I had that sense of, okay, I'm not just out there floundering around. At the Abramson Cancer Center, they didn't look at me when I walked in as here comes cancer, and that was very comforting. They wanted to know about my life. They took the time to ask me things. They know I have children. They know I have grandchildren. They constantly encouraged me to go on to live my life to the fullest, to do all the activities I wanted to do, to travel, to do whatever. I feel as if they treated me as Abi first, cancer second. When I first heard that I had cancer, all I could think about was what I was going to miss. My first grandson had just been born, and I think that's what really got me because I would be driving the car and I'd have these moments when I'd think I'm never even going to see him get on the bus and go to kindergarten. In seven years, four grandchildren later, having seen them all get on the school bus, life goes on, and the only change has been that I'm adding things, not detracting. I went back to riding; I did it as a child, and I get up, I take my medication, and I'm off to the barn. Once they go through the different lines of defense and you get to the last one, you know, then they say to you, we'll make you comfortable. I have gone through a lot of the lines of defense. I'm getting near the end part. I'm aware of that, but I'm feeling so great that I kid them. I come down and I say, "Tell me again that I have cancer." As a matter of fact, my doctor has said to me, "You're doing very well on this, but, if this should, at some point, no longer keep you in remission, we have two things coming up that you will be a candidate for". And wow, is that comforting because I don't feel like I'm at that last line of defense. I feel like there's still a little more. And so, there's a little more hope.