

=== FILE: Childbirth at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania： A Virtual Tour for Expecting Families [0N4i9_JQEhs].txt ===

 andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx Visit, make sure to check our website at pennmedicine.org slash H-U-P-INFO for the most up-to-date parking information and visitation policies. If you arrive between 11 PM and 5 AM, the Ravden Building main entrance door closest to Spruce Street will remain unlocked. A security officer will greet you, offer to park your vehicle, and escort you to the Ravden elevator. Once you're inside, make a right-hand turn and walk to the second bank of elevators. You have now reached the Ravden elevators. The labor floor and the Perinatal Evaluation Center are located on the seventh floor of the Ravden Building. Take the elevators to the seventh floor. When you exit, walk towards the side with the open door that leads to the Perinatal Evaluation Center, also known as the PEC. The PEC is where you'll check in for your initial medical evaluation when you're in labor. If it's determined that you're in active labor, you'll be admitted to the Labor and Delivery Unit. Sometimes, you're not quite ready for delivery yet, and you might be advised to continue early labor in the comfort of your own home. Once you're admitted, you'll be taken to your room, which has all the accessories you'll need when giving birth, birthing balls, squatting bars, and more. You are welcome to take pictures during the delivery, but video and live streaming are only permitted with the approval of all members of your health care team. Current visitation policies allow two healthy adult support people and one trained doula to be with you during labor and delivery. Your support people will receive wrist bands to identify them as approved visitors. They must be at least 18 years old and cannot switch out with other family members. Be sure to let them know you'll be spending at least one hour getting to know your baby before introducing them to family, whether virtually or in person. The first hour after birth is best spent skin to skin with your baby, helping your little one adjust to life on the outside. This skin to skin time helps keep your baby's blood sugar and body temperature normal, helps with feeding, and helps keep both baby and the birthing parent calm and content. A few hours after you deliver, you and your baby will be transported to a private postpartum room where you will stay until you are discharged. Our team of nurses and providers is well versed in evidence-based postpartum and infant care and will provide you with all the information you need to make informed decisions for you and your family. Family and friends are welcome to visit you during hospital visitation hours, and one person may stay with you overnight. Congratulations to all the new and expecting parents out there. We look forward to making your birthing experience as easy and stress-free as possible, here at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania.

=== FILE: Dr. J Brings Smiles to the families of Chester County Hospital’s Newest Arrivals [6GI3-w7qXfc].txt ===

 naringin, beispielene, beispielene, beispielene, beispielene, beispielene, beispielene, Dr. J here for the 76ers and Penn Medicine. We're here on the maternity unit at Chester County Hospital and we're gonna go see some newborns. OK. I'm ready. Uh-oh. You got ducks around? I think I hear a quack. Hi. You guys ready for a guest? Yes. Yes. Hello. What's up? Hello. How are you? No, how are you? Dr. J here for the 76ers and Penn Medicine. We're here on the maternity unit at Chester County Hospital, and we're going to go see some newborns. Okay. I'm ready. Uh-oh. You got ducks around here? I think I hear a quack. Hi. You guys ready for a guest? Yes. Hello. Oh. Hello. How are you? No, how are you? And who's that right there? This is Calvin. Congratulations. Thank you very much. Fish through there and see if there's anything you like. For mom over here, even though your hands are full. Yeah. That's awesome. We got Calvin covered. That's great. Thank you very much for coming with us. Enjoy. We had such a great experience with Chester County Hospital and Penn Medicine. They took great care of us. We're very lucky to be here. Yeah. Hey, congratulations. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, my goodness. What's his name? Levi. Beautiful. This is for the baby. And this one is for the mommy. Oh, that should fit you. Yeah. Just my size. Thank you so much. All right. How you doing? I'm good. How are you? That's the question. And who's that? This is Prince. Prince. Oh, my goodness. Congratulations. And came out to meet you and everything. Look like people taking care of you very well. It's been amazing. Yeah. Everybody, angels. Oh, my God. I'm so grateful. Prince getting the royal treatment. Right. So we got some things for you guys. Thank you so much. We just look forward to hearing nothing but good things. Of course. Out of that guy right there when you teach him how to play basketball. Trust me, I will. Awesome. Thank you. Thank you so much. God bless. Thank you.

=== FILE: Hormonal Therapy for Menopause [J9e_pxEIyxA].txt ===

 and alfalfa. Welcome, everyone, to the Penn Primary Care Podcast. I'm your host, Dr. Kendall Williams. So one of the areas of great interest nowadays, both in primary care clinics, but also in obstetrician gynecology clinics, and in a variety of other settings, is menopause. And how to better treat it, there's been a neglect over the decades with attention, both scientifically and also just in the public smear, about what women experience when they go through menopause. And there's also a lot of energy and interest around the issue of hormone replacement therapy. And so for that reason, I invited two experts at Penn to come on the podcast and help educate us all about where are we at with both sort of cutting edge, modern treatments for menopausal symptoms and beyond, and also where are we at with hormone therapy for menopause and for hormone replacement therapy, which we've now actually changed the name to hormone therapy. But with that, let me introduce a guest with me today is Dr. Elizabeth Clement. Dr. Clement is an obstetrician gynecologist at Penn. She is the medical director of the Helen O. Dickens Center for Women's Health. Elizabeth, thanks for coming. Thanks for having me. We also have here Dr. Irina Chesnikova. Dr. Chesnikova is also an obstetrician gynecologist at Penn. And I also understand, Irina, that you do research at Penn and are part of the Leonard Davis Institute, right? Correct. Yep. Thanks for having me. And a lot of my research focuses on how to deliver care better to menopausal patient. So this is great. And I think we have all been hearing more and more about this issue. I think it's a very good thing. And advocates for hormone therapy, hormone replacement therapy have been present on some of the major medical podcasts and at the ACP meetings and so forth. And so everybody has, I think, out there in the primary care community is trying to get our arms around exactly where we're at with this. And so actually, let me just start with a question of why do you think that there is more discussion about hormone therapy more specifically for menopausal symptoms? Has there been a change in the evidence or is it just a changing recognition of how things have unfolded? That's a great question. I think there has been a large push from people going through the menopausal transition, feeling miserable, wanting help and support. And I think in the era of social media and sort of this discussion that's happening from private individuals in the public sphere, there's been crowdsourcing of, we feel terrible. There has to be something to help us. And I think that that has really pushed the medical community to push this topic into the light in a really, I think, largely productive way to recognize that this is a big issue for patients' quality of life. It's not that I'm feeling sweaty and that's a problem and I need to just wear different clothes. It's that I can't sleep at night and then I can't sleep at night and then I can't go to work the next day. So I think patients, in addition to evolving evidence, but I really think the patients who are going through this have been the big impetus to this being such an area that's been so disgustfully. Yeah. I mean, I think we can point to a couple of major events in the last few years. I certainly agree with what Elizabeth said. One was the New York Times article that made really large ripples in our both medical community but for patients as well. I think the title was something along the lines of women have been lied to about hormone therapy and I think that created the first really big wave of the menopause moment. And yeah, celebrities that have crossed the transition or half-transition and sort of came across a healthcare system that wasn't able to respond to their needs, echoed large swaths of what now is a highly economically productive sort of sector of the population. Women who are entering their late 40s and early 50s tend to enter the peaks of their professional lives and are economically very productive and it is not a convenient time to be experiencing this hormonal transition. So I think there's sort of a precipice of folks actually having a really large voice to kind of hop onto that wagon that I think a few isolated voices in that article kind of coalesced around. So in this discussion, we're going to focus on menopause. But menopause is a period of time specifically, but also I think there's a larger issue of hormone therapy for women after menopause, which, Irina, you have educated me, is not called hormone replacement therapy anymore, but actually now is called hormone therapy when you give it to a woman who has gone through menopause. And I'm going to try to stick with that. It's just a more accurate representation of what we're trying to do here. We're not trying to physically replace hormones to the levels that folks have when they're of reproductive age. That's more of a goal in women who are less than 45 or who experience early ovarian sufficiency. In those women, we do try to replace hormones physiologically. And then women who are under growing the menopausal transition remote, more trying to use menopausal hormone therapy at the doses that are much less than physiologic to treat symptoms. So let's start with some history. So in my reading, which it was very interesting to learn this history, which I didn't know previously, estrogen was recognized, if you will, discovered in the 20th century, early 1900s, it wasn't long after that, then they were able to purify estrogen from pregnant mare urine, which is apparently how you got the name. Premarine, which is very interesting. I didn't know that either. And so yeah, exactly. So women in the 1920s started to use estrogen replacement therapy with what is now known as equine estrogen, right? Conjugated equine estrogen, which is still, as you said, still around. Now I understand that we really started to learn in the 1970s that doing that without progesterone, unopposed estrogen therapy led to increased endometrial cancer. And so there was an adjustment made there to add progesterone into the therapeutic regimens. And when I trained, I graduated from Penn Med in 1995. I trained afterwards and finished my chief residency, I think in 2000. And at that point, with intention to go into primary care and general internal medicine, we were being taught that we really should be encouraging women to take hormone therapy at menopause. And the reasoning was that though it was felt that there may be an increased breast cancer risk, there was a reduced risk of MI and stroke. And because more women died of cardiovascular disease than by the breast cancer, that we should actually be giving it to women based on some cohort studies prior to that, because there was a lower risk of cardiovascular disease if you did it. So then, of course, the Women's Health Initiative was a large randomized controlled trial, huge, funded tens of millions of dollars, if not hundreds of millions, to do this extremely large study that was then stopped early. And it was intended to do to look at this cardiovascular risk issue. But then it was stopped early in 2002 with some fanfare because of an increased risk of breast cancer. And so all of us who were living at that time and sort of trying to follow evidence-based medicine turned on a dime and went from encouraging women to take hormone therapy to discouraging them. And then that was what brings us in sort of in the last 20 years, I think we've been living off the data in the Women's Health Initiative. Is that a fair summary of things, at least up until that point? Yeah, pretty fair. I think it's worth spending a few minutes on the WHO, though, and the specifics of it. I think you pointed out very correctly that the point of that trial, the primary question in that trial was, does hormone therapy serve as primary prevention of cardiovascular disease? And how does that balance against what we think is an increase in breast cancer? So what folks thought would be the outcome of that trial is decreased risk in cardiovascular disease. And the primary, co-primary outcomes in that trial were coronary heart disease and breast cancer. And then the secondary outcomes were all caused cardiovascular disease, including VTEP stroke, MI, osteoporosis, colorectal cancer, dementia. Now that was secondary outcome. That wasn't part of the secondary outcomes delineated in the LHI. And then there were two arms, right? There's women who had had a hysterectomy who were in the estrogen alone arm and women who had not had a hysterectomy who were on combined estrogen and progesterone. And given the primary outcome of that trial was coronary heart disease, to power that trial, even though it was a very large trial, 16,000 women per arm, they still had to enroll women at all age groups, right, 50, 60, 70s. As a result of that, they heavily, as a result of wanting to power that trial to coronary heart disease, they heavily weighed the age groups towards women in their 60s and 70s. Only 10% of women were in their 50s. Another important caveat on that trial is that they excluded women who were symptomatic. Reasonably so. So like if you came to the W.H.I. enrollment office and you said, hey, I'm already a hormone therapy or no, actually I'm not interested in going off with them because I was quite miserable before I went on them. And no, I'm not interested in the possibility of being randomized to placebo, so no, thank you. And then women who were really symptomatic and looking for relief were like, again, I'm not interested in being on a placebo arm for X number of years because I feel friggin' terrible. So there are very, very few symptomatic women in that trial. So essentially folks that we right now treat or target for treatment for symptoms were not included in that trial at all or very few of them. And again, the primary question of that trial was not are hormones helpful to symptoms or are hormones helpful for primary prevention even in symptomatic women close to the onset of menopause? The question was does hormone therapy prevent cardiovascular disease in all comers largely symptomatic in the 60s and 70s? And the answer is no. Great. Very helpful answer but has nothing to do with sort of women who are looking to be on hormone therapy. So there were two aspects. It basically excluded women who were having active menopausal symptoms and then you have the fact that it was an older population of women generally over 60. So you're missing this whole 50 to 60 range when a lot of women are actually, this is when people are, women are most interested in it. One other aspect I understand in my reading is that it was conjugated equine entress estrogen and medroxyprodrasterone acetate. And those are a little different from some of the modern stuff that's available now. Elizabeth, I see you shaking your head about that. Yeah. Yeah, I was gonna agree. I think that was the other thing that I was gonna chime in, which is the hormone therapy that we prescribe now. Those medications still exist and for various reasons, sometimes we have patients on those various components for various reasons, but in general, they're not what most of us are starting patients on as our first line, our first go to and for a number of reasons. I think going back to not only the population and the study aims are different, the medications that they're actually using are. Actually let's go back to sort of normal physiology. And with that, I actually wanna pull us back later to the actual type of estrogen that exists in the human body and what we're replacing or giving back. And so Elizabeth, I mean, let's just do basic reproductive endocrinology, physiology here. What is happening to women hormonally with estrogen and progesterone up till menopause and then what changes at menopause? Yeah. So for a woman in their reproductive years who's ovulating and having hormonal menstrual cycles, they do have fluctuations in their hormones each month, but they're certainly in this premenopausal range. So while there's ebbs and flows, they're sort of in higher range than in someone who is postmenopausal. As someone approaches perimenopause or is perimenopausal, the way I have to describe it to patients, the hormonal roller coaster that you take in puberty, it's the hormonal roller coaster on the opposite direction where sometimes if you were to check lab tests, which would maybe be a topic of conversation here, which labs are not that helpful because of the variation. One day I could check labs, they could be in the quote unquote postmenopausal range or the next two weeks later, quote unquote in the premenopausal range. I don't need a lab test to tell me that you're having hot flashes and your periods have become less frequent. I can tell your perimenopausal because you're 47 and you're having these symptoms and your periods are less frequent. And so essentially we have less coordination of that ovulatory cycles, some fluctuations in hormone levels. Essentially, when you enter that menopause where you're no longer having periods, your estrogen over just hormone levels are low compared to your reproductive years and many symptoms such as hot flashes and sleep disturbances, then I know you're in a syndrome of menopause and so on. So, when you go through menopause and you have a reduction of estrogen, there are significant effects on the body in terms of issues of vaginal dryness and changes with, as you noticed, the menopausal symptoms. We all have the hot flashes and so forth. But there's also, that really starts a cascades of bone loss. I know women will lose bone density probably from their 30s. I think we all do, muscle mass and bone density loss, but it accelerates at menopause, right? And perimenopause actually, a significant sort of steep decline in acceleration of bone loss happens in perimenopause. We don't know specifically if the loss of estrogen has cardiovascular effects specifically. Do they? I mean, although it's unusual for women who are prior to menopausal age to have coronary artery disease, for instance, or to have events. So there must be something going on there that's accelerating that, right? So there's several kind of competing mechanisms, maybe not competing, but parallel mechanisms happening here when it comes to cardiovascular health. Certainly loss of estrogen on its own has negative cardiometabolic effects. And those cardiometabolic effects are further exacerbated by whether folks are symptomatic or not, particularly with vasomotor symptoms. And there's the directionality of that association is somewhat questionable. However, we certainly see a very strong relationship between how symptomatic folks are in terms of the severity, the number, the onset of vasomotor symptoms, so hot flashes and night sweats, and worse cardiovascular outcomes. And there's a dose-response relationship between sort of how symptomatic people are and how bad their cardiovascular health ends up being. And we certainly see an estrogen-related effect in early menopausal women, meaning women with premature ovarian insufficiency. And there's certainly a dose-response relationship between the age at which menopause happens. When it happens early, and the degree to poor cardiovascular outcomes. There's a very direct kind of, there's a 3% per year increase in cardiovascular risk, depending the age at which you go into menopause. So there certainly are effects of both estrogen loss and symptomatology when it comes to cardiovascular outcomes. Now, the degree to which supplementing estrogen, replacing estrogen, using hormone therapy, mediates those outcomes. No, that's a big question. We certainly see some of that mediation in very young women, and that's why we recommend that women prior to the age of 45 use hormone therapy, hormone replacement therapy, physiologic doses. For them, it is for primary prevention. Now the degree to which hormone therapy in perimenopause, late perimenopause, early menopause for very symptomatic women has an impact on cardiovascular health, that's still, I think, somewhat of an outstanding question. We have some conflicting studies in that space. But it's very possible. But the logic of the thinking before the women's health initiative data came out that it actually would have positive impact on cardiovascular outcomes was reasonable, right, based on what we know. Yeah. But just to turn out the biggest... And what we found out from that trial is that the answer is no for women who are remote from the onset of menopause and are asymptomatic. So we know that it's not harmful for women within about 10 years of on the onset of menopause. If they're asymptomatic, it's not helpful, but it's not harmful. And it can be harmful if it's given significantly after the onset of menopause. So we generally draw the line that about 10 years, 10 years from the onset of menopause is when we say there's an increased risk or risk of harm from starting hormone therapy for cardiovascular disease. And that's like, that is what we learned from the women's health initiative. Does it matter? I mean, we addressed a little bit this issue of the type of estrogen that was used in the women's health initiative versus the types we're using now. And just to go into this, they were using ptemberin, right? So they were using equine estrogen. And now we're using more estradiol synthesized estrogen, which is technically different. And I think there are some differences in... I was reading about it. You can tell I've been reading. I've been in the rabbit hole on this. So there's some differences in amino acids. And some of these may actually... Because it's not actually the most natural form and that may have some pro-theraumabatic effects. Is there anything to that? So conjugated equine estrogen is essentially... is a conglombered of a whole bunch of different astrogens. And it does contain 17 beta estradiol, which is the predominant sort of natural estrogen or estrogen that are overrace for the most part produced is E2, or again, 17 beta estradiol. There are other natural, quote, unquote, natural astrogens or astrogens that are present in female bodies produced by the ovary. Some of those other ones is estradiol. That's E3. Estetrol is E4. And again, 17 beta estradiol, which is predominantly what we use in hormone therapy these days, is 17 beta estradiol, E2. Conjugated equine estrogen, again, has some of those components in addition to a whole bunch of other astrogens. And there's both positive and negative outcomes potentially in using conjugated equine estrogen. It's not all bad. I mean, the way that it's produced is kind of gross. I don't know how else to put that, but it's possible that some of the components of that conjugated equine estrogen actually may have a positive breast effect or at least a neutral breast effect. So coming back to the WHI, another interesting thing that we learned is that women in the estrogen-only arm did not see an increase in breast cancer. And in fact, conjugated equine estrogen was protective against breast cancer. What we saw in the combination arm is a slight increase in breast cancer, but no breast cancer mortality. And the relative risk of combination conjugated equine estrogen medriaxi progesterone in terms of breast cancer risk was 1.3. I mean, comparing that to really dense breast, the relative risk of dense breast to breast cancer is 5. So it's a very big difference. Yes, it was there, but it was very minor. And clearly we see that at least in the WHI, the breast cancer risk is attributable to the progestogen component. Estrogen alone with conjugated equine estrogen, we actually saw a protective effect in those breast cancer. And that might not be true for 17-beta estradiol. We don't know some of the European studies that we have. One of the bigger ones is called DOPS or Danish osteoporosis prevention study that ran concurrently, somewhat concurrently, to the WHO, was actually sort of stopped when the WHO results came out unnecessarily, I think. They used for the most part 17-beta estradiol. We don't see any increase in breast cancer in that trial either, but we don't see a protective effect. But it's unclear whether that positive effect that we see with conjugated equine estrogen can be seen with 17-beta estradiol. And it's not only the sort of the type of estrogen that we use, right? It's also the mode of delivery of that estrogen. So the question is, like, are we swallowing it? Is undergoing liver metabolism, first-past metabolism, or are we bypassing it by not administering the estrogen orally? And it's the oral administration that likely produces some hypercoagulability as opposed to necessarily the type of estrogen. We see an increase in VTEP with oral estrace, which is 17-beta estradiol. So it's more about the oral administration, necessarily, than the type of estrogen. It's both. I guess I'll just add to that in terms of the transdermal estradiol, which is, I think, what many of us use as our first line estrogen for hormone therapy versus oral. You know, there's that first-past metabolism, and that changes, just to sort of say it out loud, that changes the circulating estrogen metabolites. When you have transdermal estradiol, E2 is your predominant circulating estrogen, and that's not the case when you take it orally. That first-past metabolism changes that. So I think that even though you're giving estradiol what's actually circulating in the patient's body is different, and I feel like that was helpful for me to understand, because I was sort of like, well, yeah, it all seems somewhat abstract, and you're not doing it all the time. So if I want to summarize some of the potentially negative effects, positive and negative effects, let's just talk about the cardiovascular and hyperquagulable aspect. It seems like, first of all, just a dovetail on the point we're making now, that hyperquagulability concern is largely taken away if we don't give it orally. That seems to be unpromoted in the literature that I read, that we feel that we're okay from venous side hyperquagulability. That's separate from the issue of increased cardiovascular disease, specifically atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, which is, as we know, by a different mechanism, but they're not completely unrelated. And Irene, if I'm going to summarize there, the equine estrogen did increase risk in women who were in the Women's Health Initiative, which is largely 60 and older women, and we feel confident that that's true. But these were women mostly who had actually gone through menopause over 10 years earlier, and then were started on this sort of de novo, as opposed to women who were in the 50 decade, who were presumably at much less risk for atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease anyway, and could remain at much less risk. And so even if we do see an increase over 60, it probably doesn't apply to the 50 to 60 range, and we don't quite know whether or not the equine estrogen or the estradiol makes a difference there. Is that a good summary? It's pretty good. A couple of asterisks to that. One is sort of the mechanism by which we think the effect of estrogen differs by age group is sort of this timing hypothesis and the time in which atherosclerotic plaque forms. And so if you hang out in menopause for 10 plus years, that's enough time for you to accumulate some plaque. Obviously, if you're at a higher risk of cardiovascular disease, that plaque accumulates a lot faster. And if you then start estrogen after enough time of that plaque accumulation, you risk dislodging that plaque. So plaque accumulates, receptors remodel, your response to estrogen changes with time. And so if you reintroduce estrogen after quite a bit of time has passed, you're going to dislodge that plaque. Which I think is an important thing to think about, or as you're seeing patients in your primary care practice who are also seeing gynecologist prescribing it, often if someone hasn't developed new risk factors, continue hormone therapy if a patient desires when they've initiated it at the standard time. They may be 62 and beyond it, but they started it when they were 54 and they haven't developed new risk factors and they say, I want to stay on this, which is very different than starting somebody newly at age 62, which I think is an important distinction. Yeah. And we think that sort of women who started the appropriate age don't remodel in the same way, don't remodel their response to estrogen the same way, don't accumulate plaque at the same rate. And that is supported by some evidence. So in addition to the WHO, two trials that have specifically looked at cardiovascular outcomes as their primary outcomes were keeps and elite. So the critical differences between the two of them without going into too much detail was the duration of time for which women used hormone therapy, keeps was shorter was four years. The type of hormone therapy that folks used and also the amount of hormone therapy that folks used and sort of elite showed a positive effect for women who started hormone therapy early to the onset of menopause within six years in terms of carotid intramedia thickness did not. It was shorter duration loss hormone therapy, different hormone therapy. So there's clearly some potential for benefit, but it is very dependent on the type of hormone therapy is the amount used, the duration and likely the degree to which women are symptomatic and how close to the onset of menopause that hormone therapy is started. And all of that has to be teased out some more. The important thing is I have a lot of patients coming to me these days being like, oh my God, I saw these FDA people who are on the FDA now are in the black box warning and they say that hormone therapy has the same effect as the statin does. So I'm going to go off of my statin and you're going to write me a prescription for hormone therapy because that sounds just more lovely than being on a statin. And that's just insane. That's insane. I don't know where they got that from. Well they got that from some of those really, really early cohort studies or case control studies of hormone therapy users that are exceptionally biased. Yes, it's possible that hormone therapy has a beneficial effect for cardiovascular health. Again, if and if and if and if, if you're super symptomatic, if you're starting a really close to the onset of menopause, if you're using 17-period strudel and quite high doses, if all that may be, that's a trial that we have to run, maybe it has a beneficial effect, but it certainly has no, there's nothing in literature that suggests that its effect is similar to the benefit of the statin. Just to throw in another caveat here, and this came up today when I was seeing a 63-year-old woman who had premature ovarian insufficiency, was placed on hormone replacement therapy, and then at age 62 was taken off of it. Her gynecologist said, you've been on too long, you have to go off of it. She then, I guess maybe I'm getting the exact dates right, wrong, but she had an acceleration of bone loss, now was put on Phosomax, and was coming in saying, I'm having all these terrible symptoms from Phosomax, what do I do? When I looked at her profile, I'm like, I just did a coronary calcium score on this lady last year, it was zero. She has no plaque, no discernible plaque. She's at very low risk. For me, I was thinking as a primary care doctor, cardiovascular risk is very low, so I don't much concern about putting her on it from that perspective. What I did wonder about was the breast cancer, and so I want to circle back on that point, because Irina, you had gone over the WHI, I mean that's why the WHI was stopped, was the increased breast cancer risk. The combined arm, yes. The combined arm, right, so the folks that do not have a uterus, women who do not have a uterus and who are on estrogen therapy alone actually had a reduced risk of breast cancer, right? Correct. With the equine estrogen, as you said, but let's hover on the breast cancer risk. We know pathophysiologically that breast cancers are responsive to estrogen, that's a well-known thing, and we take advantage of it in our therapies to prevent progression of breast cancer. We know that you could feed the flames, if you will, right, if you're not careful, or theoretically you could. There was some logic to an increased breast cancer risk that came out of the WHI. Now you had contextualized that, and you said it was like the relative risk was 1.3, which is actually not that high. I've heard also comparisons to its roughly equivalent to the effect of alcohol. Alcohol, obesity, yep. Like having two drinks a day versus none is a relative risk of about 1.3. Smoking, particularly early in your life, like being sick.  sedentary, yeah, all of those confer the same kind of relative risk as the progestogen component did in the WHOI. Again, that risk, actually, we didn't see that risk increase in the WHOI until about three to five years. That's when the Kaplan-Meier curve starts to diverge a little bit. So that risk is not immediate. Again, it's pretty small, and we didn't see any increase in breast cancer-related mortality. We actually saw a reduction in an all-cause mortality in women who are on hormone therapy on the WHOI in both arms. So we believe that estrogen and progesterone therapy, combination therapy, does increase the risk of breast cancer, but we should be rational about how much of an increase. It's not a wild increase, right? Yeah, that statement applies to the general population. Yeah. Right? The degree to which the supplies to women with extremely dense breasts, women who are at higher risk because of family history, remember, we do have some limited studies in women with a BRCA mutation, again, lots and lots of nuance there. Generally, we see similar trends that women who start hormone therapy with estrogen alone do not see an increased women on a combined therapy, do see some increased risk. But that's sort of, again, that statement applies to the general population, average risk. It's not as commonly prescribed, but I think we were talking about progestogens or progesterone, but there is a serum vasodoxyphene, which can be used instead of the progesterone component, which is breast-neutral in terms of its activity on breast receptors, while still providing endometrial protection, endometrial proliferation. In the United States, it's only available in a combined formulation with conjugated equine estrogen and vasodoxyphene as a combined pill. And that limits one being able to use trans-sternolestradiol, and it also limits dose adjustment based on symptoms. But I think just to sort of say there is an option for a patient who either you're having this debate with them about their personal breast cancer risk, their significance of symptoms, trying to find something that could be an option for them, just to mention that does exist. Do we make any differences between the types of progesterone, Elizabeth, that you're getting at this, that were used at WHI versus what is used now, vis-a-vis breast cancer risk or anything else? Is there anything there yet? Do we know much? Yeah, I mean, there's some early evidence that suggests that synthetic progestogens or progestins, so progestogen is like an umbrella term that encompasses all kinds of progestins and progesterones. So progestogens again includes synthetic progestins, and that's madroxyprogesterone that was studied in WHI, aegycin, northindrone, northindrone acetate. Those are some of the common synthetic progestins that we use, and we also use progesto-rone or micronisprogesterone or prometrium. That's a bioidentical or body-similar, however you want to call it, progesterone. That seems to... there's some early signal that it may confer less risk, particularly when it comes to breast cancer, some hypercoagulability when it... as compared to synthetic progestins. That data is pretty early. The most convincing comes from Europe, because they have these delicious all-population data sets that we don't have. And it looks like in those delicious all-encompassing data sets, it seems like progesterone doesn't seem to pose the same risk to breast cancer as synthetic progestins. Again, that doesn't include the IUD. We don't know whether an IUD... what an effect an IUD has, because it wasn't studied in these cohorts, but progesterone, like oral progesterone, compared to synthetic progestins, doesn't seem to pose the same level of risk. That sort of replicated in smaller studies, again, mostly from Europe, and compared against some compounds that we don't use in the United States. But generally, what all roads lead to is kind of the most common thing that we use as a result, as a first-line regimen, when it comes to prescribing hormone therapy, is like transdermal 17-beta estradiol by a passive deliver. We don't have transdermal formulations of any other kind of estrogen right now. It's just 17-beta estradiol, but it's body-similar or bioidentical to the predominant estrogens that we produce together with an oral progesterone, because of that early signal around breast cancer risk and less hypercoagulability, et cetera. I want to add that the regimen that we just went over, each of them are quote-unquote bioidentical, right? And I think patients sometimes come to the office saying, I want bioidentical hormones or I read about bioidentical hormones. And I think sometimes, as a clinician, that sort of mentally translates to like compounded or like something, I don't know, off-book or elsewhere. And essentially, there are FDA-approved bioidentical hormone therapy formulations, which are first-line, essentially. And so I think, I find often when I talk to patients through that, they're like, oh, I didn't even realize that. I didn't know really what I was asking before. I was told to ask for bioidentical. And I think for reasons that we've explained, there's something to it. But I think sometimes that gets conflated with compounding, which is a different scenario that is not regulated. And it's very hard to know what doses are in that situation, which we encourage patients to not go and seek compounded hormone therapy where doses cannot be regulated or known. I want to come back to this point because I'm going to get you guys very specific. I am an idiot when it comes to this, and I want you to take me through exactly how to prescribe for a few different categories in a minute. So we're going to come back to this point. But I just want to hover on a couple last sort of endpoints, if you will, of WHI and other studies. So osteoporosis, I'm assuming we universally feel that this is a good thing for women who are at high risk for osteoporosis, but even going into the advanced stages of life that being on hormone therapy helps maintain bone density for longer periods. And then I just want to hover on a couple of other things that came out of WHI. There seems to be a reduced colon cancer risk. Nobody really has any idea why that's the case, I believe. And then the last thing is just the cognitive effects. Those are sort of the three other areas that I think would come up in our practices. And maybe can I ask you to address those three areas? Osteoporosis first, Elizabeth, are we agreeing that for bones it's universally a good thing? Yeah, I think hormone therapy improves bone density certainly while you are on it. I think that certainly it doesn't replace the other important factors that need to be managed when it comes to bone density. And this is, I think, a big part of my counseling of these patients. They should be on vitamin D. They should get enough dietary calcium. They should be doing weight-bearing exercise. We should be talking about this in their reproductive years because that bone nutrition has already started. And so I think that there's any sort of bone endocrine folks listening to this podcast. I feel like sometimes osteoporosis comes as like it feels like a little less jazzy and exciting sometimes when it comes to what patients are coming for unless they have a personal connection to someone who's at an osteoporotic fracture. But certainly folks are coming in saying, I'm concerned about my risk. I want to be on hormone therapy technically or not technically. What do you think of prescribing hormone therapy? I mean, it's not indicated as a primary indication for prescribing hormone therapy for the prevention of osteoporosis, but we know that it does have some improvement. And I do think there have been some exciting studies in terms of prevention outside of the hormone therapy world in terms of just IVs will endurinate in the early menopausal time, frame and reducing osteoporosis risk. So I've been very excited by some of the work there. In my mind, I think osteoporosis is going to be a multi-pronged approach. And I don't think hormone therapy is the panacea there, but certainly is beneficial for your bones. What about colon cancer and cognitive function, Irina? Like you said, colon cancer, I don't think anybody really harps on that as a, certainly not a reason to put some heavy on hormone therapy, A. Do we even talk about that as a perk, as a positive side effect to starting hormone therapy? Not really. It's not certainly something that I have time for in my clinical practice to address again, because I don't really know what to do with that. I guess we certainly saw it in the WHO. Again, it's one of those questions of like, is that specific to conjugated equine estrogen? Did it act as some kind of, is there some compound within all of those estrogens that are mixed into conjugated equine estrogen that had some effect there that we won't necessarily see in 17-beta-estrodial formulations? Who knows? In terms of cognitive benefit, I think this is really important. And again, something that the FDA decided to bring up as one of the primary arguments in their reasons to remove the black box warning recently was the reduction in Alzheimer's and dementia in hormone therapy users. Yes, it is true for women who suffer from premature ovarian insufficiency, whether it's surgical, chemical, natural, itrogenic or natural. But if women undergo early menopause prior to the age of 40, certainly in their 30s, maybe in their early 40s, will derive benefit in terms of prevention of early onset Alzheimer's and dementia. That is not true for women who are naturally menopausal in their early 50s. It's not harmful, but it's not helpful specifically when we talk about the outcome of early onset Alzheimer's and dementia prevention. And it actually increases the risk of onset of early Alzheimer's and dementia if it has started late, so in people 60s and 70s, particularly with conjugated equinestria. That's another thing that we learned from the WHO is when you give women estrogen in their later years, it actually worsens their Alzheimer's risk. In terms of this resolution of this very specific word finding difficulty, this fogginess, it's visual, it's short-term memory, it's word finding difficulty that's very specific to the menopausal transition. Again, the remaining question is whether starting hormone therapy for symptomatic women with severe half flashes and nights, whether moderate to severe half flashes and nights, whether very close to the start of menopause or in late perimenopause, we don't have that study that says yes or no whether it's beneficial. Both Elizabeth and I certainly see an improvement in women who are symptomatic and also happen to complain of brain fog word finding difficulty, all those things in terms of starting hormone therapy and those aspects of their symptomatology significantly improving. But then the question is, did you fix their night sweats and so they're sleeping and now they can think during the day, was there some independent estrogen effect? I'll just add that what we're titrating medication to when I'm adjusting hormone therapy dosing is these are motor symptom severity. I think that it is hard to titrate to some of the more amorphous symptoms of menopause and I think focusing on if you're adjusting medication on how are your night sweats, that's the place to be adjusting dosing for those sort of physiologic menopause transition patients. I want to actually dig into that and I want to be very specific. I'm going to ask you about three patient populations. I'm going to ask you about managing the woman who is in perimenopause, who comes in with vasomotor symptoms and is miserable, needs to get started and we're going to get very specific about exactly what prescriptions you write and so forth and how you write them. Elizabeth, you started alluding to that. I'm going to ask you about the woman who goes through that period, feels better, and then you're a couple years out and do you start thinking about transitioning them off of it? So I'm going to ask about the woman that really wants to stay on it until she's 60s year old. And then I'm going to ask you about the woman, so that was the two populations, sort of the acute management of menopausal symptoms in which you may consider transitioning somebody off after a few years versus the person that you're keeping on for a decade or more up until, and then there's this period in which you're in an early 60s where you have to decide whether to continue it. That's the third population I want to talk about and that's basically the woman I saw today who now she's not tolerating phosmex, she's like, well, can I just go back on the hormone therapy I was on and sort of that. So three patient populations, the immediately perimenopausal woman, the perimenopausal woman who you'll carry through to maybe 60 some early 60s and then the woman over 60s. So let's talk about the immediately perimenopausal woman who comes in and says, I'm miserable, I'm having all these hot flashes, insomnia, my anxiety, I'm snapping at my husband and my children. I'm just miserable, I'm not getting good sleep. And so Elizabeth, you had started to talk about the very specifics about how you treat that woman. So how do you treat that woman? Yeah, so if it's okay, I'm going to start with the patient who is menopausal because I think it's the most straightforward. So this patient's been 12 months without their period, they're in menopause, they feel miserable, they are not bleeding. And I think that is the most straightforward scenario where I generally do a .05 estradiol patch and a 100 milligrams of oral micronized progesterone nightly continuously every day. And the patch is usually a twice weekly patch. There are some formulations of the patch that are weekly. It depends on the brand. There are some national shortages of patches now, which hopefully means we're prescribing them more and they can start making more of them. So we sometimes have to contend with that. But that's generally where I start. .05 is like the middle of the road. They come .025, .0375, .05, .075 and .1. And that's generally the range. And so .05 is like smack dab in the middle. You can go down, you can go up. It gives you a good starting pace. If you have patients who particularly has a tint, I'll start at .025. But sort of depends on how they're feeling. So I'll start with the boilerplate off the bat, .05 estradiol patch and a 100 milligrams of micronized progesterone nightly. The perimenopausal patient I think poses an additional challenge, which is that that patient might still be cycling irregularly or regularly, frankly, because the perimenopausal symptoms start earlier than I think we've given respect for in the medical literature and the discussion of this. I think many patients in their mid 40s are coming in complaining of these symptoms and we say, oh, you're not in menopause yet. And these patients often have contraceptive needs, so are trying to avoid a pregnancy. And so that becomes a challenge because hormone therapy is not dose to prevent pregnancy. Well, it's not approved by the US FDA for the progesterone component. A progestin IUD is a commonly used strategy to give both endometrial protection for progesterone, the local progestin, endometrial protection, and then a transtermal estradiol patch, I think is a common suggestion I make to folks. There's other sort of strategies in this zone, but I think that's one that I often employ. But I think it's important to assess that when you're taking care of somebody who's still having menstrual cycles. So the progestin IUD prevents pregnancy during that period, manages periods, patients become, they have no periods during that time, right? Well, you may have some breakthrough, right? But for the most part, and it acts as a contraceptive as it would before perimenopausal period. But then you're adding the estrogen in to help them deal with the symptoms that they're beginning to experience even though they haven't yet stopped having full periods, right? Yeah, exactly. So yeah, let me ask you this question. In the patient that you put on and you put her on 0.05 of estradiol patch, you put her on nitrile progesterone. She has stopped bleeding, stopped having menstrual periods, so you're not worried about having to withdraw leads, right, for progesterone. You're just going to continue it daily. And then how long do you continue that regimen? Yeah, I mean, I think there should be touch points where you check in about their symptom management. Do you need to adjust the dosing? And also, do they want to continue it? I think that there are, I've seen sort of a couple different trajectories. Some folks like kind of get tired of taking a medicine as they do with many medications. And I'm sort of like, do I still need to be honest and we can try all coming off? Some folks who are afraid to come off and we sort of once again go back to their risk calculation, recalculate their photocardium as their risks. And they're, you know, sort of check in about their overall risks and see if they've changed. And then there are some folks who are in pride of estrogen out of my cold dead hands. I'm going to the grave with this. Never take it away from me. And I think going back to the timing hypothesis, if someone doesn't develop new risks, I both continue to counsel and document on sort of the, there are some risks in this. We don't have a ton of data, sort of the long-term continuation, but we think it's reasonable if you haven't developed new risk factors. And I don't feel strongly to stop this, but I do think it's important to candidly address new risk factors. And there are times where I do recommend coming off of it because the patients risk factors have changed. And I say that this is no longer a treatment regimen that makes sense for you. Do you feel a need to talk to women about the breast cancer risk if you're just managing the perimenopausal symptoms? Or is that a discussion for a couple years down the line when maybe their symptomatic period is over and then you're just dealing with... I think you have to discuss the breast cancer risk if you're prescribing it. I mean, I think it's such a heated area of conversation that I think you have to mention it. I will say in my patients with premature ovarian insufficiency, those who go through menopause early for a variety of reasons, I counsel them very differently where I say this data really does not apply to you. And we are, I think, like these are the studies show when people who are physiologically menopausal, but that is not you and we are getting you back up to where your estrogen should be. And I don't actually have great studies to say what this impact would be, but I know here are the harms of not having estrogen. So I will say for those patients, my conversation is very different about the risk. I think someone who's perimenopausal, I think it's worth mentioning, but I... Yeah. I mean, the median duration of symptoms is seven years. The median duration of vasomotor symptoms is seven years. So it's not like people hang out on this for a couple of years and then they're able to go off. That's not true for the vast majority of folks who have moderate to severe hot flashes and nights with. And again, sort of the breast cancer risk doesn't kick in until about three to five years of being on hormone therapy. And I think that is the only risk that's worth revisiting and somebody hasn't developed a contraindication... Otherwise hasn't developed a contraindication in terms of the timing of discontinuation on people on combined hormone therapy who are otherwise average risk for breast cancer. So if somebody comes to me and they're average risk for breast cancer and they start hormone therapy, combination hormone therapy with estrogen and progesterone, the only sort of reason to continue re-discussing or this continuing is if they have some trepidation about their breast cancer risk. But what if they develop a new like they have a cardiac... Well, sure, if they develop a contraindication, sure. If they otherwise develop a contraindication, yeah, I mean, that's a reason to stop it. If they're running through and I'm I, yeah, you shouldn't be on this. Well, hey, if you develop breast cancer, yeah, you shouldn't be on this. Have a clot, we should figure out where you had a clot. No, in the absence of development of a contraindication, the only reason to sort of reevaluate again is somebody on a combined therapy reevaluate their concern about their breast cancers. Monotherapy for women who are on estrogen alone who don't develop a contraindication, who started the appropriate time, I mean, I think until death to a part. The scenario that often happens, I think, is that women have a neighbor or maybe another family member, which actually would impact their risk, but not so much the neighbor who has breast cancer. And now they're starting to think about it and they come in and say, you know, am I really... So, I mean, that's very helpful to say that a woman can expect vasomotor symptoms to persist for seven years. So what I take from that is that if I start a woman at 50, say, just as a round number, it's probably till 57 that I have to worry about vasomotor symptoms were I to stop that, right? Beyond that, and that was the median, right? So it can be out farther out until 60 that women will experience withdrawal vasomator symptoms, essentially, if you stop the hormone therapy. Yeah, and I mean, we have some signs of who's going to be on what trajectory. I mean, people do all kinds of things in terms of there are certainly folks who kind of peak in early menopause, hang out for a couple of years and they and then symptoms level off. There certainly are those kinds about 20%. There are people who start really early way before, like Elizabeth said, way before they stopped having periods and it just keeps going and it never stops. They have patients who are flashing into their 70s. There's some folks who like kind of start early and they taper off a much slower. Those are closer to that kind of seven to 10 years trajectory. And people do all kinds of stuff, but that seven years number is more to the point of like, there's no point. If somebody is severely symptomatic, trying to wean it like a year or two, that was hardly ever a population for which that's going to be very successful. And there's also no need to do so. Okay, so let's go back to my 63 year old woman who was taken off a year or two prior because she'd been on it for now. She had premature ovarian insufficiency. I don't know exactly when, but let's say she's been on it for maybe 15 years. But even if she weren't, even if she went through menopause was placed on it. And at this point, it really comes down to your assessment of cardiovascular risk at that stage as to whether or not you continue and just leave people on it. As you said, till death do you part, arena, or have a discussion about coming off of it at that point. I mean, again, like her cardiovascular risk was largely abated by her being on estrogen therapy. Your atherosclerotic plaque formation rate, at least in the studies that we see is lower, the rate of formation is lower in women who are in estrogen therapy. And certainly quite good on women who are both on estrogen and state and therapy. But her cumulative risk or her trajectory differs significantly from somebody in her situation who was not on estrogen therapy. So we don't think of her in the same way as somebody who would start at her age who was estrogen naive for 15 years. And so for some, I mean, for some reason in the last couple of years, she picked up smoking and became way more sedentary and is now diabetic. Like, I mean, that's a bit of a different story. But as long as nothing in her lifestyle changed super significantly, like you said, her coronary artery calcium score zero. And I think that's the exact opposite of what I'm saying. The concern about sort of dislodging a plaque with restarting estrogen is quite low. Add back the thought that estrogen is not we was like a primary treatment for osteoporosis of this patient was recommended to be on Phosamax and to be treated for osteoporosis or other. I think sometimes we end up in this estrogen or hormone therapy is a panacea for all of the issues that I'm having. I'm not doing any of this other stuff. And then I think that can also sometimes do a disservice to our patients. But yeah, agree. It is not a treatment for osteoporosis. It has been approved for prevention of osteoporosis, but it has not technically approved for the treatment of osteoporosis. Because they're going to be helpful to her osteoporosis journey. Yes, as long as she's on it and it weans immediately or like quite rapidly once people go off of estrogen therapy. So that's why you have to have a ramp off plan for folks who are in estrogen therapy for long term and have some osteopenia or in their 60s and they're suddenly coming off of estrogen. You probably have some plan to get them something else. I'm hearing from you that you are generally favorable to the idea of starting women who particularly those that are very symptomatic who are perimenopausal on estrogen therapy, estrogen and progestin. Let's assume they have a uterus. She has a uterus. And then continuing it until something changes in her overall risk profile that you have to weigh the factors that we've discussed today. But you're continuing it. There's no necessarily specific end date. There's no guidance. There's no sort of statement that says that one should discontinue hormone therapy. That comes from kind of an old B.R.S. criteria that apply to Medicare and lots of folks on Medicare were getting taken off of hormone therapy because of that B.R.S. criteria. About five years after hormone therapy that you should discontinue. But it's not based on any data and should be an individualized approach. Like when we're asymptomatic, why did we start it in the first place? What is your breast cancer risk? Like what is your osteoporosis risk? Again, are you on both estrogen and progestin? What formulation are you on? Like lots of people come to me and again out of my cold dead hands, my peremoran. But I'm like maybe we can just get rid of the peremoran bit and try something a little bit more perempro. We'll try something a little bit more suitable for your risk profile. It's important to get a why they were on it. I think the person was like I only heard the risks that you mentioned to me. I didn't like them. But I was so miserable that I wanted to be on it for a short period of time. The person might be motivated to come off. And I think that there is definitely individualization in this area. There's not a one-size-fits-all approach. But I think the era, when I trained, I felt like initially I was taught every visit you should try to talk to them about coming off of it. I think that was sort of like the shortest amount of time, which I see is arenas horrified that this is what I feel like when I was taught. But it was the duration of symptoms that somebody was having and try to come off of it ASAP. And some folks want to do that and some folks don't. And it is reasonable to continue it. And I think to Rina's point, some people are like made to feel like they should come off of it when they're still symptomatic and with so benefit from continuation. So my understanding of how this has flowed over the last couple of decades is that WHI came out. We said, oh boy, this is terrible. Everybody comes off. And then there went to the be this point where we said, OK, well, you can do it for a while to handle paramedopausal symptoms, but not too long. And then folks became more comfortable to going up to their 60s. And then it seemed like women were being advised in their early 60s to come off of it. And now what's changed is that we're balancing all these risks and benefits in the individualized patient. And there is a reasonable argument for women who are comfortable on it, you know, a preserved bone, maybe a risk and for osteoporosis and other issues that they should just stay on it. And that is different. That has changed. Yeah, I mean, the pendulum is swinging in all kinds of ways, like Elizabeth said in the beginning, and the WHI certainly did a huge disservice to generations of women when it comes to just the level of publicity and honestly misinformation that surrounded the results of that trial and the mass panic that it caused. But unfortunately, the pendulum swing is swinging in the totally opposite direction. That's also inappropriate now. And yes, while some women, it's very reasonable to stay on it, some women, their risk benefit doesn't necessarily pan out in that direction. Both Elizabeth and I see lots of women who are at higher risk for breast cancer who probably should be on some primary prevention for that breast cancer, but choose to go on hormone therapy initially just because of how symptomatic they are. And for those people, yes, we do drum beat the drum and save lowest amount for the shortest duration if you're a breast cancer risk is in the 30s. Please let's think about that primary prevention. So it's individualized, but so many women these days feel like they're missing out. There's so much stuff out there about just how amazing hormones are and how amazing hormone therapy is and how amazing people feel on it and all the things that it improves. And particularly for primary prevention, just so many people feel like they've been wronged or are being wronged by not being put on it or again, are not deriving all the benefits for their hearts and their bones and their brains that they should be. And it's just misinformation. There's no data to supporting. And so many people are kind of benefiting from it economically and it's really kind of annoying. And I'll just add, especially with a lot of like direct to consumer both prescriptions for hormone therapy as well as I think sort of just in my mind what I feel like is predatory marketing towards menopausal patients because they are a group of people who are looking for solutions have been suffering and there's a big market there for various treatments. I think that patients will seek help outside of the traditional healthcare setting to feel relief. And I think that while hormone therapy can seem intimidating, I think the service you can do to your patient by assessing their risks prescribing reasonable hormone therapy to a reasonable candidate can save them the harm of being prescribed a non recommended regimen and can really be beneficial and then escalating to sort of a menopause specialist or someone who's particularly comfortable. If someone is a little bit more complicated and probably needs a little bit more of a nuanced risk benefit discussion. And if I wanted to sort through that I could send a patient to one of the two of you right. Absolutely. We'd be happy to do that. Yeah, and we have a whole cohort of clinicians who specialize in menopause not just we and Elizabeth there's also Danny Berkland, Kara Williams and Ryan offer and Shana McIntosh and Abigail Wolfe over at Penn Z. I mean we have a whole cohort that we're sort of trying to grow kind of a center of excellence for menopause for folks to be able to escalate. But yeah, it's certainly more than reasonable and also just so gratifying to start hormone therapy for patients who are really miserable. I mean, it's one of the major reasons for why I do a lot of it is just really was just short term reward. People think that you've changed our life by sprinkling a little estrogen around and it's just so great. Yeah, I used to joke when I treated a lot of congestive heart failure in the hospital that it made me feel like a surgeon because I could make people feel better very quickly. Yeah. Which is not an experience you often have as an internist.  focus on prevention, long-term, and things take a long time to get better and so forth, but this is something that will make people feel better quickly. Yeah, two weeks. People feel better within two weeks. I'll also add on the low-hanging fruit of making people feel better, vaginal estrogen for denido-uranary syndrome, menopause, systemic hormone therapy, not enough to essentially provide relief for denido-uranary syndrome and menopause, and there's minimal systemic absorption of vaginal estrogen. There have been more recent studies that show there's not an increased risk of people with history of estrogen and progesterone receptor positive breast cancer with vaginal estrogen. I say that to be very reassuring to patients. The black box warnings have been removed in terms of that risk for vaginal estrogen. I joke to my patients, vaginal estrogen should come in the welcome basket to menopause. We should just give it to you. That one we can prescribe to anyone. All right, Elizabeth, I'm going to have you dig down and tell me exactly. I'm an idiot, remember. What do I write when I write vaginal estrogen? What do I tell the woman to do? Yeah, so vaginal estradiol. It comes with that applicator plunger when you prescribe it and one gram night leave for 14 nights and then twice weekly indefinitely. That's it. At night, just because it's messy, there are other options aside from the cream. So if a patient says, oh, it's messy, yuck. I want something different. There are tablets and rings and other formulations. I usually start with estrogen cream because it's usually inexpensive and covered by insurance. I usually say, we'll start here and let me know how it goes. Well, listen, we've run long, but this has been a great discussion. There's a lot out there and it's a complicated area, especially when we're trying to think through all of these specific outcomes related to hormone therapy. So thank you for really digging down on this with us tonight and going through all of this specifically and then leaving us with some very practical advice on how to start it and whether to continue it and how long to continue it. So I really appreciate it. Thank you both for being on the podcast. Our pleasure. Thank you so much for having us. Short plug. There is going to be an Agile MD pathway coming shortly to primary care folks to be able to use and to kind of go through some of the inclusion exclusion criteria and end up with that sort of very simple script for twice weekly patch, 0.05 for metrium 109 time and then be able to escalate from there if folks want to refer or some tips on how to troubleshoot and continue to manage that patient if they would like to. Terrific. That's absolutely terrific. So thank you both for coming on the Penn Primary Care podcast and thank the audience for joining us as well. Please come again next time.

=== FILE: Interstitial Lung Disease [4loVfQDGlcY].txt ===

 Right now, Susan is focused on passing down her favorite tradition one cookie at a time, which she isn't thinking about, is breathing. For patients with lung disease, Penn Medicine specialists combine advanced personalized care with leading research and clinical trials that are driving the next generation of ILD treatment. It's this expertise that allows patients like Susan to focus on what matters most, the moments that make life just a little sweeter. Thank you.

=== FILE: Lung Transplant [EWo0JpGsdRM].txt ===

 naringin. Right now, frankfrain. Right now, frankfrain. Right now, frankfrain. Right now, frankfrain. Right now, frankfrain. is teaching how to measure twice, hammer straight, and take pride in every little detail. What he isn't thinking about is breathing. For patients with advanced lung disease, Penn medicine provides the region's most experienced lung transplant program with innovative therapies and clinical trials led by experts trusted to take on the most complex cases. It's this expertise that helps patients like frankfrain breathe a little easier so he can keep building the moments that last. I don't mind doing thisaaaaaaaaa Iaaa

=== FILE: Shoulder Replacement Patient Testimonial ｜ Penn Medicine Princeton Health [ESNQ69g1uLo].txt ===

 Nutrient Nutrient You know, you take a lot of things for granted, everybody thinks that they'll move forever and not have an issue, I took it for granted that I would not have an issue, doing the things that I like to do, Before any of the symptoms that I've had, I was able to do everything, I was able to go mountain biking and play golf, at least, you know, three or four times a week, with no issues, at first, I started feeling a little bit of a pain, and then, pain in my right shoulder. You know, sometimes if I reach up really high, I might feel like a little ouch. But then the pain was gradually getting worse and worse to the point where I couldn't put on a shirt without having my wife help me out with it. And that's when I decided to reach out to Penn Medicine, Princeton Health. When I first met Frank, we first talked about his vocation, his job, and then we talked about what he likes to do in his free time, whatever his athletic endeavors. Because it's important to have shared goals and expectations. So patients know the timeframe and what they should expect and at what period of time after surgery because it helps them plan their lives, their jobs, but also their athletic activities. When I met with Dr. Song, he made me feel really comfortable. What really impressed me was his knowledge. He really went thoroughly through what he believes that the issues are. For Frank, he had arthritis. Unfortunately, this progressed to the point where he needed the shoulder, the right shoulder eventually replaced. The recovery was not easy, but Dr. Song prepared me for that as well. Within about six months, seven months, I was able to start swinging the club. I was able to start running my mountain bike a little bit more and gradually, I was getting stronger and more mobility and then I was able to do a lot more. But because I was doing everything with my left hand and babying my right, straining my less dominant arm consistently led to loss of cartilage. I knew I had to get surgery again on my other shoulder. It was no doubt in my mind that if I was going to see anyone, it was going to be Dr. Song again, because I know how my first surgery went and know that my second surgery was going to go just as well. We're proud of the Penn Medicine, Princeton Hospital because we do offer the latest advancements in healthcare and in orthopedic care. With regards to shoulder replacements, we're very proud to have been approved by the Joint Commission for a shoulder center of excellence. What that means for the patient is they usually shorter operative times, same day surgery, a less pain than after surgery, quicker recoveries and ultimately better recoveries at the end with the ability to return their chosen activities. My right shoulder is absolutely perfect. It's like I've never had the surgery before. Surprisingly, my left shoulder has been much easier and the physical therapy is coming along really well. I'm happy that things are going in the right direction. I'm looking forward to getting right out there and start swinging the club and start riding my mountain bike. I can't wait. Out of all the surgeries I've performed, a shoulder replacement is the most impactful on my career because you really, I think, help patients the most because they can do things that they never thought they could do again. That's the reason that I get up and keep doing this job because it's very gratifying.

=== FILE: Sickle Cell Anemia at Penn Medicine： What's New and What's Next [-laSfQ-_ggY].txt ===

 jakk jakkab jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak jak Speak briefly about the causes of sickle cell disease, who it affects. It's not just a children's disease, is it? Tell us a little bit about it. Absolutely. And first off, thank you so much for inviting us to be here today and to speak to our colleagues. So sickle cell anemia or sickle cell disease is a congenital mutation in the hemoglobin gene and alters the production of adult hemoglobin in all individuals. So what actually happens is that the mutation leads to hemoglobin forming rigid polymers in deoxygenated red blood cells. I like to say like the red blood cells are like the bags that carry oxygen throughout our body. And the hemoglobin is really important in delivering oxygen to our muscles and organs and allowing us to function. In people who have sickle cell anemia or sickle cell disease, what ends up happening is that when the red blood cell goes through the body and goes into areas where oxygen content is lower, the hemoglobin that is mutated ends up forming these long lines that make the red blood cells change in shape. So they get stuck in places in our body. They often do not survive very long and you end up with chronic breaking apart of the red blood cells. This leads to the overall hemoglobin or blood cell level being lower. And then it also leads to periodic pain episodes and over time affects all parts of the body. So it's a congenital disorder that occurs in millions of people and it causes lots and lots of morbidity and mortality. Well, thank you for that. So Dr. Ali, sticking with you for just a second, how are the sickle cell programs at Penn Medicine reaching their respective patient populations for information and treatment? Tell us a little bit about the programs and the unique advantages that they hold. Well, I'm specifically working with the adult program here at Penn Medicine and we have multiple ways that we reach out to individuals living with sickle cell disease as well as specific programs for our patients. For example, we have a social worker in our program who meets with all of our patients and also has individual sessions for peer support where patients can come together. allies of patients can come to learn more about sickle cell and just living with the disease and speak with one another. I'll also ask Dr. Peslak has been with Penn Medicine longer than me and he has participated in many of these programs. Thank you, Dr. Ali. And it's a pleasure to be here as well and really excited to be able to talk to the entire physician community about our sickle cell program here at Penn. I have been here at Penn for about 10 years or so. I study sickle cell disease in the lab as well as thalassemia, but I've been really involved in trying to promote and educate our patients and connect them with the community. I will say our nursing team and our sickle cell coordinator team is really fantastic at the transitions from the pediatric to the adult phases of life. We have an excellent embedded psychologist in our program that provides much of the mental health coordination and care for patients, which is a major burden of health in many of our sickle cell patients. We have an excellent research team and we have several different research registries that we're trying to understand how sickle cell disease affects patients throughout their lifespan, as well as developing new interventional and observational trials for sickle cell patients across the lifespan. Dr. Ali, tell us about the approved drug therapies for the treatment of sickle cell disease and describe how those medications work and when they are indicated. Unfortunately, we don't have very many drugs in our toolbox. Currently, there are only three drug modifying therapies that are FDA approved. The oldest and most well studied is hydroxyurea. Hydroxyurea is a chemotherapy drug that was initially used for acute leukemias, but it has been studied very thoroughly and found to alter the production of hemoglobin in the bone marrow. And we can use this to our advantage in the induction of fetal hemoglobin, which is a type of hemoglobin that is made before birth and really in the first six months of life. So after the first six months of life, we start to make adult hemoglobin, and that's where the sickle mutation causes problems. And you get sickle hemoglobin rather than adult hemoglobin. So hydroxyurea leads to the persistence and production of fetal hemoglobin. We now have evidence to show that it is helpful to give as young as nine months of age. For patients who have traditional sickle cell anemia, this drug can help increase levels of fetal hemoglobin, which can help increase blood levels overall. It can help decrease ongoing hemolysis. And it's really been the longest studied medication that we have. It was originally approved back in 1995 after the multicenter MSH trial came out New England Journal of Medicine in 1995. And we have a lot of good follow-up data, particularly in adults. It helps with longevity and decrease morbidity and mortality. And most importantly, it decreases the amount of vaso-occlusive events, including acute chest syndrome. So hydroxyurea is really our number one tool that we have. And it has been well-approved and well-studied in children and adults. There are two other drugs that I'll briefly mention. The two others are L-glutamine and crizanlizumab. So both of those are a little newer, but we have pretty good data. But L-glutamine was actually approved first in 2017. L-glutamine is an amino acid and it helps decrease oxidative stress within the red blood cell. So part of the pathology in sickle cell disease is that there is susceptibility to oxidative stresses. So L-glutamine works by decreasing and fighting back against that oxidative stress that is ongoing in the red blood cells. But this medication is a little more difficult to take. It's a powder twice a day, but it can be mixed with a lot of things. And it has shown in original studies to decrease pain and how frequently there are pain episodes. This is something that is another tool that we can reach to to see if it will help. And in my experience, it has been very beneficial. Dr. The third one, which is completely different, is crizanlizumab, CRIZ for short. And it is an IV infusion and it targets P-selectin. So it is not specific to the red blood cells. Rather, it works on decreasing stickiness inside the vessels. And this one is a little more mixed and nuanced. It is an infusion. And patients have to come to the infusion center. But in that sense, some people actually do prefer it because it's not an everyday medication. But it is an infusion initially given once every two weeks, just for two doses, and then monthly. I have found it to be very beneficial in some patients. Dr. And if I could just add two other points. One, with hydroxyurea, this is a medication that has been shown to be safe really all through childhood, as well as adulthood. One of the big questions was, do we use this only in patients who have severe pain? And we've found through several studies, including something called the Baby Hug Study, that was published in 2011, that hydroxyurea is safe and effective in children starting at the age of two, all throughout their lifespan. So really, I think with this drug, we're going to change the natural history of sickle cell disease in a very positive way. And we're going to see patients with much fewer complications as they come into their adult life. The other point I will say is that many patients who have certain kinds of complications, including a history of stroke, something called acute chest syndrome, which is an inflammatory disease of the lungs, or increased pressures in the heart, pulmonary hypertension, sometimes start regular red blood cell transfusions, something called exchange transfusions. And then we take the sickle cell blood out and transfuse in non-sickle cell blood. And this can really help to reduce the risk of recurrent stroke or other major complications or even severe pain longer term. But I think the important point to make with all this is, it's going to be very complex. And talking to a comprehensive program like the one here at Hupp and Penn Medicine is really critical. You know, we have five positions and we're all excellent and a really excellent nurse practitioner as part of our practice, in addition to the entire team that we mentioned earlier, that helps to understand which treatments are right for which patients and being able to offer either established therapies, more advanced therapies and trials, or even gene therapy, which I know we'll get to in just a few minutes. Dr. Thank you, both of you, and such a comprehensive program with a multidisciplinary approach. And Dr. Peslak, your work in the laboratory and the clinic is focused on the development of new therapies in sickle cell disease. Give us a little update on new and ongoing developments in your lab and the sickle cell field in general, because I think it's a pretty exciting time in your field. Dr. Absolutely. My laboratory here at Penn focuses on studying this fetal form of hemoglobin, as Dr. Ali mentioned before, the one that is changed and increased in the setting of hydroxyurea. We know that this works in many patients, but sometimes even with the maximal dose of hydrea in many patients, we don't achieve the effects that we want, which is really reducing as best we can and minimizing the amount of pain episodes that patients experience, minimizing their time in the hospital, maximizing their productivity, and ensuring they live productive lives. And so to do that, we are pursuing many different therapies involving a phosphatase, which is a chemical that helps regulate the activity of certain cells. And we're trying to understand the mechanism of this. This is something called PP6C. The other is looking at repurposing other medications that are used for other blood disorders, something called IMIDS, to try to understand how this works via a variety of high dimensional techniques, including looking at something called proteomics, all the proteins that are changed, all the different RNA that are changed, and the messaging that's changed, to really be able to not only use these in a safe way, but also potentially to be able to develop new and better drugs through engineering in our lab and many others through the field and in collaboration with our industry partners to be able to move this forward. Beyond fetal hemoglobin, which is what I focus on in lab, many other researchers throughout the country are trying to understand other ways to change the effectiveness of red blood cells in a way that these are more durable, less likely to break down. There's a newer therapy that's being studied, something called midipivet, which helps increase energy levels in red blood cells and helps reduce the risk of these cells of sickling that's being studied in a large phase three trial that we have participated in here at Penn. And there's many others that are trying to understand how do we change the individual risk of cells to reduce the amount of sickling, and to improve the health of these red blood cells, again, to really allow our patients to have the best quality of life possible. One of the things that we as a field are trying to figure out is how do we measure this? How do we understand what is best for patients to be able to design clinical trials that are effective and that we can achieve appropriate endpoints? That's something we're really working on as a field to understand that better. But one of the things that we know is the most effective for achieving better outcomes in patients is fetal hemoglobin. And that's why I studied it in my lab. And we're excited to be able to present much of this work at next year's American Society of Hematology meeting, as well as the work that's been going on both at University of Pennsylvania and the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, where I collaborate with many other physicians, including Dr. Garrett Blobel and Dr. Eugene Kondros, as well as Dr. Ashiz Abdul-Malik and Stefano Ravella, all phenomenal scientists that are working on sickle cell disease and thalassemia in a really, I think, comprehensive and unique and creative way. That's fascinating. And Dr. Peslak, along those lines, over the past several years, two new gene therapies have been approved for the treatment of sickle cell in adults. Describe a little bit about the clinical trials and research that led to these therapies and the link between this research and the sickle cell programs at the University of Pennsylvania. Dr. David Peslak, Ph.D.: Absolutely. So there has been a 25-year journey or more to try to bring gene therapy-based approaches to patients with sickle cell disease. These approaches essentially require us to what's called mobilize or move stem cells out of the bone marrow into the blood using a specific set of drugs. In this case of sickle cell disease, we use something called ploryxophor or Mozabel to be able to get these cells out of the bone marrow and to collect them using an apheresis procedure. We then can partner with one of several different industry partners to change these stem cells in a way that provides benefit to patients. So the two approved stem cell therapies are something called LOVOCELL, which is a gene addition therapy in which we add instructions to make a non-stickling hemoglobin to hematopoietic stem cells, or something called EXACELL, which is a gene editing approach in which we change and decrease the amount of this repressor of fetal hemoglobin hemoglobin, something called BCL11A. BCL11A, when it's there, prevents fetal hemoglobin from being expressed. If we take that break off, we can increase the levels of fetal hemoglobin. So either of these, either increasing fetal hemoglobin or expressing a non-stickling hemoglobin can significantly reduce in 90 to 95 percent of patients that receive this therapy the risk of acute pain episodes. And so they're equivalent in terms of their effectiveness. It is a very long process. Once we collect these cells, they have to be sent to the company. It takes about three to four months to manufacture, in addition to the five to six months before that, when we had to collect these cells. And then patients have to be admitted to the hospital for what is essentially an autologous transplant. We're giving them chemotherapy and infusing in these edited or gene addition cells, and then allowing them to engraft and make new non-stickling hemoglobin. I think it's transformative therapy. So we're really excited about offering this at Penn. We are discussing our first sickle cell patient right now who will be collecting stem cells and doing gene therapy in 2026. And we're excited about offering this broadly to the community. But the caveats to this is that it is a very long process. We need to make sure patients are ready from a social perspective, from a psychological perspective, from a medical perspective, make sure their iron levels are good, make sure they understand the process. It does require fertility preservation as patients getting bucephan chemotherapy need to preserve their fertility, either their eggs or their sperm, prior to the chemotherapy being administered. And there is a small but significant risk of cancers related to the bucephan. We know that the risk is higher in sickle cell patients. And this is just recent data at ASH to suggest that the risk of cancer in general is higher in sickle cell patients. So it's further augmented by these therapies. We are trying to reduce that by getting better ways to condition the bone marrow, to remove the stem cells that make sickle hemoglobin. And eventually we're going to be have the approach we call in vivo gene therapy, where we can essentially give an infusion with the instructions to change the stem cell to make non-cycling hemoglobin without the need for mobilization and chemotherapy and everything else. But we are a few years away from that. We're excited for that as a field. But again, I think it's early days. It's a great option for a subset of patients, but it is one in which requires a significant discussion, comprehensive evaluation for patients that might be interested in these cellular therapies. Do you have some final thoughts on how someone would contact the sickle cell program at Penn Medicine? It's 215-615-6555 is our main number. So that is the contact number for anybody that is interested in referral to the sickle cell program, either for a one-time consult visit, for a comprehensive visit, for advanced therapy discussion. If you call the clinic line, that will be redirected to our nurse navigator who will assess all the information given, give the person, patient, referring provider, anyone a call back to clarify. Thank you both so much for joining us today and telling us about such a comprehensive approach at Penn Medicine, for sharing your expertise. Thank you again for joining us and to refer your patient to Dr. Ali or Dr. Peslak at Penn Medicine. Please call our 24-7 provider only line at 877-937-PENN or you could submit your referral via our secure online referral form by visiting our website at pennmedicine.org slash refer. That concludes this episode from the specialists at Penn Medicine. I'm Melanie Cole.

=== FILE: The Center for Precision Surgery Marks 10 Years of Illuminating Cancer Cells in Practice and Rese... [J0JdQJbdlRc].txt ===

 and alfalfa. Welcome to the Podcast Series from the Specialists at Penn Medicine. I'm Melanie Cullen. We have a Thought Leader Roundtable panel for you today with three Penn Medicine experts to highlight the Center for Precision Surgery's 10-year anniversary. Joining me in this panel is Dr. Sunil Singhal. He's the Executive Director of the Center for Precision Surgery and the Chief of Thoracic Surgery at Penn Medicine. Dr. Jim Delacotne, he's a research professor in the Department of Radiology and the Director of Translational Research for the Center for Precision Surgery. And Dr. Yannish Tanyi, he's a gynecologic oncologist and associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology and Division of Gynecologic Oncology. Doctors, thank you so much for joining us today. And Dr. Singhal, I'd like to start with you. Can you give us a little background? On the Center for Precision Surgery, its mission, how would you summarize the Center's accomplishments in the decades since its founding? Great. Thank you, Melanie. On behalf of all physicians on the line, we want to thank you for this opportunity to talk to you a little bit about our Center for Precision Surgery. I'll trace back a little bit about the history. So over a decade ago, Dr. Delacotne, Dr. Tanyi and our other comrade in action who can make today Dr. John Lee in neurosurgery, started talking about the problems that exist in cancer surgery. Specifically, when people undergo cancer surgery, there are some major problems that can occur in the operating room. The first is the surgeon can accidentally cut through the cancer and have what we call a positive margin or leave cancer behind after they've left the operating room. The other problem is that frequently when doctors are trying to remove cancer throughout the abdomen, there's many different locations it can be and a surgeon can miss some of these locations and these locations will then come back. So the four of us were talking about ways to do this operation better and we identified a possibility to inject patients with contrast agents that basically fluoresce or glow. So we give the contrast agent before surgery, they go to the tumors and they make the tumors fluoresce or glow so that when the surgeon is doing the operation, they can be sure that they get the entire cancer out and they find anything that might be missing. Now, this idea that started as a simple conversation amongst a group of us turned into a small little group of four and five and then eventually now 110 members into the center for precision surgery and we do exactly that. We've done 16 clinical trials over 10 years. We've developed a cadre fluorescent contrast agents that can be injected to patients. When we started, Dr. Tony led the charge for a variant but we've gone for lung cancer, Dr. Della Catanese done work in sarcomas. We also now have Dr. John Lee in neurosurgery who's doing work on brain tumors and this simple idea has now gone all the way through clinical trials, is FDA approved and is being used around the country. Our group led the charge on this. We're now the largest group in the country that performs this type of surgery and have been able to really make an impact on patients' lives. We have numerous patients who have left the operating room with margins that would have been missed by traditional surgery. We've also developed ways to identify additional metastases that would have been missed and in collaboration with the Abelson Cancer Center here at the University of Pennsylvania, we feel we've really moved a dial on the way we deliver cancer surgery in the United States. With that, it'd be good to hear the opinion of Dr. Della Catanese and Dr. Tony as well on some of the new advances that have really come up in the last 10 years. That was a great introduction, Sunil. One thing I'd really like to add is the truly collaborative nature of what Sunil and the others have established in this center. It really is a multi-factorial, multi-disciplinary center where we have participation from departments of surgery, departments of chemistry, radiology, bioengineering, bringing in scientists from multiple disciplines to tackle this really multifaceted problem that includes camera design, that includes contrast agent design, that includes modifying surgical methods. It really has been a great intellectual coming together, as Sunil said, of 110 different people. I just wanted to emphasize the collaborative nature of what we do. I remember back in 2013, 2014, when we started to work with Sunil, we operated next to each other in neighboring Oars. I visualized directly how he does these long surgeries when he tried to reach cleanages and one or two extra lesions. We were able to use this because my cytoreductive surgeries want to remove as much disease as possible because in Ovarian cancer, we had hundreds of lesions inside of the abdomen. There are certain points of the abdomen which is not easy to visualize, not easy to par-pay. I definitely, as a surgeon, needed a new tool to augment this visual inspection and manual par-patient to identify further disease so I can really do a debalking cytoreductive surgery and started to organize the first phase to try all between 2014 and 2017. As the work went ahead, we just get more and more collaborative partner. Although we are different field, we discuss different steps of these imaging technologies and how can we make it better because Dr. Singha's aim is different than mine, but we can use the same agent and the same technology very beneficially. Just to echo Melanie, many people don't realize this, but Dr. Tani is being modest. He had the first FDA-approved molecule in the United States. He led that with the principal investigator for the phase two and phase three that is now being used around the country for women who have ovarian cancer to identify additional lesions. This was truly a groundbreaking accomplishment. It's a good news that I can announce that we are starting a pilot study using this FDA-approved ovarian cancer imaging agent in endometrial carcinoma. This study starts in January of 2026. We start to enroll the first patient in this month and the next month. This will be very exciting if we found similar efficacy in endometrial cancer than what we have found in ovarian cancer. Dr. Tani, as long as we're talking about Cytolox, the product you developed, why don't you tell us about its journey to that FDA approval and its principal advantages in surgery because this is a game changer? Yes, it is indeed a game changer. It was very interesting that when I saw the application of called OTIA-38 or Cytolox at first time, I was amazed at how clear edges, how beautiful tumor background ratio with the operative molecular imaging we see. I started to apply this agent first in the phase two trial in 2014. I was surprised that when I believed that the surgery is completed and absolutely done and I'm imaging the patient again, I was able to identify more and more lesions. As I developed using this technology, I get better to find other diseases in hidden location or retropeditonal. At the end of the phase two trial, we were very excited. Five centers enrolled, multiple patients and the results was excellent. In 2017, we presented these results on the SGO national conference. Very quickly after, we tried to work on the phase three trial because although we found in the phase two trial, 49% of the patients had additional disease but that was sometimes on tissue which was originally planned for removal. So we wanted to make it more sensitive, more specific and in the phase three trial, we designed that we want to find the efficacy, want to find the disease on tissue originally not planned for removal. And when the phase three trial started in 11 different tertiary care centers, 10 in the United States and one in Europe so that was international, not just national as a phase two trial. As the trial proceeded, we were able to enroll 178 patients and from this 178 patients, 150 patients received the agent, build up the safety analysis set and 109 patients had ovarian cancer, which was the efficacy analysis set. And when we evaluated the data, surprisingly, we were able to identify 33% of the patients additional disease on tissue originally not planned for removal. That was very exciting. And also we found that the tissue which was identified but was not suitable for removal was significantly lower when the cancerous tissue was identified with the imaging, then was identified with manual palpation and visual inspection because the imaging had to delineate clearly the lesions edges and it's helped the surgeon to perform the excision of the particle lesions. So the phase three trial ended around 2020-2021 and we presented the results on us call and it was very, very exciting and later we presented further evaluation and data on SGO in 2014. So we are planning to go to other gynecological oncologic diseases. As I mentioned to you, we start a pilot study in endometrial cancer, but this particular agent has lots of future target application. So further indications as you would see in the future, what are you hoping to happen, Dr. Tani? Number one is endometrial cancer. Also, I believe that folate receptor are over-explaned many metabolically active diseases, colorectal cancers, which is out of my field. But for example, uterine sarcomas or cervical cancer also can be a good target of this particular agent. Wow, that's very exciting. And Dr. Singhal, in 2010, around the time you started publishing on intraoperative molecular imaging or IMI, PubMed recorded around 140 articles on the topic. Last year, there were 867. Do you have thoughts on this dramatic increase and the interest in this field? Yes, I mean, I think that there's two sides to this. You actually heard a very impressive journey from conception to FDA approval with Dr. Tani for ovarian, but it's also gone on to other cancer types, such as lung cancer, brain cancer, etc. But I think that the other part is that there have been many other tracers developed, more than just cytolux. And actually, that's where Dr. Della Catton comes in. I mean, he has spent most of his career developing new tracers for new indications. And that's where the real exciting future of the Center for Persistent Surgery lies, is the translational research that's going on. Maybe he can fill us in a little bit on the most exciting achievements in the research world. Thanks, Anil. And yes, that's what I do. I mean, I was originally a chemist by training and so I still think in terms of molecules and I think of how molecules interact with targets and how these targets can be overexpressed in cancer and how we can make those molecules for essence so that we can look at them starting in cells, starting even with the basic proteins, and then moving up into mice and then into large animal models where you conduct veterinary clinical trials in conjunction with Dr. David Holt in the veterinary school and then finally translation into the clinic. Dr. Tani elegantly expressed the various cancers that we think overexpressed folate receptor, but as we know there are hundreds of other targets in cancers that we can go after and some are going to be more expressed in certain cancers than others. And as I think we'll touch on later, it's also the concept that we could use multiple dyes to target multiple targets within one single cancer. So we've been looking for, when I first met Dr. Singel, I guess getting close to 15 years ago, I was introduced to him as this is somebody you really should meet. And I was at that point a dye developer looking for various targets. All I wanted to do at that point in my life was make a mouse lineup. And as soon as I started talking to Singel, I realized that there was a potential here for real clinical medicine that we had not previously realized. So the targets that we've been interested, my basic research for a number of years has been in lipid metabolism. So a lot of my targets are based on aberrations in lipid metabolism. One of them is choline kinase. Choline kinase is an enzyme that cells use to make membranes. And so every cancer cell needs to make membranes in order to divide. So it's a multi-cancer target. Another one is in signaling phospholipase. Phospholipase makes signaling molecules that regulate growth. And we've developed probes to investigate that as well. And so we work on a model that we've developed over the last decade where we start with our basic targets and then move into mice. Our choline kinase target molecule has been in veterinary clinical trials for the last three or four years. We've currently run, I think, 35 dogs and these are not experimental dogs. These are real people's pets. They're real patients that come to the veterinary school. And so it gives us the opportunity to test out the technology, test out the dyes, work out camera issues, and things like that with the very expert help of Wadholton and others in the veterinary school. This has led to a number of grants. Sunil and I have written the number of grants together and we just got one funded last August to take this choline kinase target and die into a phase one human clinical trial. So this is really exciting for us because this is now a homegrown pen die that we can move into a clinical trial. We hoped it will have pan-cancer usefulness. We've tested it in biopsies of lung cancer, brain cancer, ovarian cancer. It lights all of those up quite nicely. And so we're quite excited about that. Our second set of dyes is the phospholipase dyes and they're scheduled to go into a veterinary clinical trial. We just did a major mouse experiment this week showing how formulation can affect targeting. And so we're preparing to get that one ready for veterinary clinical trials. The other really exciting thing we've been developing is to move our dyes from the near infrared into what they call a near infrared two or shortwave infrared, which is farther redshifted. And in that wavelength range, very exciting things happen. All of the scattering that we normally see in tissues, all the things that make our images blurry disappear. So in those longer wavelengths, we can image tissue deeper. We can image tissue with higher resolution. And we can image tissue with less background. And so we have a program now developing these long wavelength shortwave infrared dyes. And again, Sunil and I are putting together a grant application to further study these. And I think that's going to be one of the next big changes in the field as the dyes develop and as the camera technology develops. And we're going for deeper, brighter and sharper images. Yeah, I'll just follow up on one more point that Dr. Delcati said, but I think just needs to be emphasized. You were talking about the future. Dr. Tani, for example, has been down in the weeds trying to cure women with ovarian cancer. And he's really focused on that and now moved on to endometrial cancer. I think what makes Dr. Delcati research different is that he's looking for the Holy Grail tracer. The tracers that exist right now tend to be only good for one cancer type at a time, maybe two or three. Dr. Delcati is trying to develop a universal tracer, something that can be used for every person in the world who has cancer. And so I want to just make sure the audience understands the critical nature of what he's doing. Well, thank you all for that. And I'd love to give you each a chance for some final thoughts here. And Dr. Delcati, as long as we were on this topic of your dyes and IMI is complex and evolving, I'd like you to speak a little bit about the complexity that it presents to users and the ongoing work to improve that efficacy and usefulness and what the future holds. What would you like to see the future hold as a research scientist? So we're at a point of time where this is a field of great growing interest. But it's a very complex field. Every cancer, as our surgeons will tell us, is completely different. And many of them need different methodologies. They need different camera technologies possibly. They can be surface cameras or hyperscopic cameras as it may be. And then you have this multiple dye problem where you've got multiple different targets that are over expressed in different cancers. So ideally we would like to develop a system where we can uniformly calibrate cameras to be used with different tumor types. And as Dr. Singles said, come up with some form of universal markers that we can use to target multiple cancers at once. And I think that's where the Holy Grail is going. And one of the opportunities that I've had as a scientist is to work with people like Dr. Tanya and see how these exciting things get applied in real life. But then I've also had the opportunity to work with industry, with camera manufacturers, with other dye developers and really see the field grow. At one point, I know we had up to six different cameras in the operating theater that we could use for various indications. And we're trying to one day bring that down to one or two that will do it all for us. In gyvenoncology, the surgical technology and the arsenal of chemotherapy and biologic agents are very drastically changing. And we are right now doing far more minimally invasive surgeries than like 10 or 15 years ago. And we are hunting much smaller cancers with more hidden location, retroparitonal locations. So we definitely need new dyes with deeper penetration, easier identification. And also, we will possibly introduce this technology for very early lesions, like a screening technology in very early cancer, which is very minimal and possibly will not be seen with a PET CT, but possibly can be seen with some other. So minimally invasive approach, histero scopy or a laparoscopy using special cameras and the special dye. So that's will be the future. And this is what we want to reach in gyvenoncology. The work you're all doing is so exciting. And this has really been such an enlightening discussion. Dr. Singhal, I'm going to give you the last word here. The precision surgery center has been the source of several FDA approvals for intraoperative molecular imaging. Tell us about some of those, how they came about and what you envision as your vision, your goals for the center in the next 10 years. Sure. Thank you. I think the group is pretty well summarized where we're at. We have developed a library of contrast agents that can be injected into a patient that go to their tumors to make them fluoresce. We have developed cameras that are seeing deeper and deeper into organs and allowing us to fund smaller quantities of disease that are being missed by CAT scans and PET scans and all the conventional technologies that exist. And I think as Dr. Tani kind of alluded to, we're developing new indications, new directions to do clinical trials. So that's where we are at at this moment. As you peer forward for the next 10 years, which is very hard to do, it's hard to see them two years out. We do need to work on universal tracers. So we don't have to develop a different tracer for every different cancer type. Second, this concept of seeing deeper and deeper in organs is going to become more and more important because right now the current generation of tracers can only see one or two centimeters deep into an organ. And the new generation should be able to double or triple that distance. Third, the cameras are going to get better and better. We're going to get more precise readings. And a number of us are now starting to develop artificial intelligence methods that can inform the surgeon if the surgeon is about to miss something, almost like a little warning signal that the surgeon is about to close the patient up and there's something left behind. And I think fourth, what still needs to be appreciated is we take it for granted here at Penn that we're at the cutting edge technology and we provide the best care we can for our cancer patients. But this is going to take a long time to penetrate into the rest of the United States and world because of education, because of lack of knowledge, because surgeons are just busy and they don't have a chance because they caught up. So I think the road is just beginning where the tip of the iceberg and the center of surgery will continue to grow and tackle some of these problems. And ultimately the center and our work, we work at the end of the day to provide with this intramural caramaging technologies a survival benefit for our patients. Well, it certainly is multidisciplinary and comprehensive and very exciting. I want to thank you all so much for joining us today and really highlighting the center for precision surgeries. 10th Anniversary, thank you all. Well done. And thank you for joining us and to refer your patient to Dr. Shingal, Dr. Delacotne or Dr. Tanyi at Penn Medicine. Please call our 24-7 provider only line at 877-937-PEN or you can submit your referral via our secure online referral form by visiting our website at pennmedicine.org. That concludes this episode from the specialists at Penn Medicine. I'm Melanie Cole. Thank you.

=== FILE: The DIEP End Podcast： Innovation, Trust, and the Future of Academic Health with Kevin Mahoney [1VDCdFLgB9c].txt ===

 and time actually because not only are we getting ready to celebrate the 250th anniversary of our nation, but this is 275 year anniversary of Pennsylvania Hospital coming up. So really exciting time to be interviewing the CEO. Yep, let's go down and interview him. Welcome everybody to another exciting episode of the Deep End Podcast. My name is Sayed Azari. I'm Hank Davis. That's been Franklin. And we're joined by Kevin Mahoney who we'll introduce in just a moment. But what makes this episode incredibly special is the fact that we will soon be celebrating our nation's 250th anniversary. But even more special than that we are at Pennsylvania Hospital in the nation's first medical library where the first surgical amphitheater is just above us. It's undergoing construction. But how incredible is that? And that was 275 years ago. And so just this morning Hank and I had a podcast with a medical historian and kind of talking through time about the advances over the past two centuries essentially. Just to think about how far we've come and it's just such an incredibly exciting place to be. As sort of a background to our listeners, the Deep End Podcast was sort of rooted in plastic surgery. But then we since expanded we just have enjoyed all the conversations that we've had with thought leaders to expand beyond plastic surgery to interview just leaders in medicine surgery but also within institutions just like yourself. So that brings me to introducing Kevin Mahoney who is the CEO of the University of Pennsylvania Health System, the clinical enterprise of Penn Medicine. And throughout his career he has helped lead Penn Medicine through scientific breakthroughs, expansions in care delivery and an era of innovations. We're going to talk about navigating the COVID-19 which was incredibly challenging but we will definitely hit on very exciting innovations, CAR T therapy and of course the Nobel Prize sort of backstory. So long story short, I've looked up to you personally. I know Hank and I have talked about this about just your leadership style that's really grounded in humility, humanity. And so we're just incredibly grateful to have you here today. So thank you so much. No, I appreciate being here. And as you mentioned being a Pennsylvania hospital is always a treat. It is a remarkable part of our nation's history and so much of what makes Penn Medicine, Penn Medicine started here in 1765. So it's really it just you can't tell you how if you're down in the dumps coming down here and remember I think we're having a bad day imagine trying to do medicine 275 years ago. And I've heard you say before that you know the University of Pennsylvania you know was built on the ideal of the creation of knowledge but also disseminating it and what other way to experience that or to palpate that than being in the first medical library. Yeah, I mean it's incredible. 100%. As you also mentioned you know we're not stagnant. Yeah. But Ben Franklin, Benjamin Rush, their DNA is in the culture of Pennsylvania Hospital. In leadership everyone says you know you got to change the culture and you can change culture. You can realign it, you can move it in a different direction but our history started here so it's just great to be here today. And speaking of culture that's what makes you know your role so integral to the success of Penn Medicine. And but we like to start kind of back on your journey with you know brought you to where you are today. Can you tell us a little bit about yourself? Sure. Yeah. I will give you the truncated version. My wife and kids will tell you, I tell stories that are way too long and repetitive but let me run through it. I didn't grow up far from here out near Valley Forge Pennsylvania. Come from a very large Irish Catholic family that had a built-in wonderfulness to it which was I always had friends. You know I wanted to play baseball I call Sean, Regan, Brian, just go out and there were always people around. It was great. The other thing though about growing up in that family is both parents are alcoholics, brother and sister is afflicted. So the Irish trait in Irish history runs deep in me and in the family. I love poetry. I love to read and think through different things and I think that's you know from my grandparents and it's been wonderful. I didn't put a whole lot of thought into my career. I graduated from Connoisseur High School and I said I guess I'll give college a try. So I went to the closest state college that's where we could afford the Valley Forge which was Millersville and off I went and I had a great time. Was that the military institute? That was in the Valley Forge military institute? No, no, Millersville State College in Lancaster. Okay, gotcha. But one of the great things about college was it was like my large Irish Catholic family. I could always find someone to throw a baseball, throw a cross ball. One thing you'll never forget me say was anybody want to go study? So when I finished on my first year I had a 1.98 grade point average and I got a letter student of Ferris saying you know you might want to reconsider whether college is a good plan for you and that summer three things were going to happen to me that put me on the path that I've become the CEO at the health system. The first was in late July I was working for a landscaper and I ran into Bill Rouse. Mr. Rouse is famous in Philadelphia because he was the first person that built taller than City Hall and I remember reading in the paper like this was a huge controversy. He can build taller than the William Penn Statute and he said zoning, regulation, rule like why can't I? And the answer is always you know we just don't do that in Philadelphia. He said Poppycock I'm building. I met him out in Great Valley and the landscaper dropped me off with my tractor. Meet Bill Rouse and he'll tell you what to do. Mr. Rouse said I want you to cut this cornfield this July and it was all growing and I said why would I cut this and he said because next week I'm in an open house I need to put my tent up here and I was like why? He said I'm building offices and I said that'll never work. People work downtown they sleep in the suburbs they take the train in the center city. Yeah they sleep in the suburbs you work downtown. He said rule, regulation zoning like why? And I said that's just the way it's always been and he put out a cigarette and he said Kevin never do things the way they've always been. I make it sound like we were two peers having a conversation. Bill Rouse was the man. I was just listening along but it really implanted on me. I then hopped on my tractor back and forth day after day after day. I fell off the tractor on the tractor. The tractor ran over me. Wow. Ended up in the hospital on a ventilator. Priest gave me last rites. Oh my gosh. It was it was um should have been a traumatic experience and I know it was traumatic on my family. Yeah. For me it was the house was a pretty cool place because I was a very self-centered 18 year old 19 year old at that point who only thought about himself. And all of a sudden the nurses the food service worker like everybody just wanted me to get better and I'm like this is remarkable like really remarkable. I also tell everybody I was in the hospital for um my length of stay was three popes Paul the six John Paul uh one and then John Paul two. Um so I was in there for quite a long time but I also grew up in there. They were giving me a hundred milligrams of demoral and it wasn't long before I couldn't wait for four hours to go by so I get another hundred milligrams of demoral and a nurse came in at night never turned the light on just her voice. You're getting addicted. I'm like no I'm not I'm in pain. Yeah. And she said no you waited for four hours and then you hit your buzzer. And she said give me 30 minutes if you're still in pain I'll come back in. I watched that clock 30 minutes and then I hit that buzzer. She came back in and she said I'm telling you you're getting addicted. Give me another this one on all night and by daylight I wasn't taking it anymore. She never put the light it was just the calmness of her voice. So I walked out of there saying I want to work in a hospital. We've already established I wasn't a very good student so I couldn't be a doctor like you guys. I didn't know what I was going to do but I loved that environment. And then the third thing that happened to me that put me here is November 10th 1979 I went back to Millersville to see my friends who got me in trouble the first time so naturally ended up in a bar. I walked into the bar and I saw the most beautiful person in the world and we've been together ever since and Pam has that was 47 years ago. Pam taught me how to study. She taught me she is I'm Irish and get upset. She's very calm. Take me in my life. I come running home and I'm like a workers and she's like standing their shoes and she's a yin to my yang and I love her to death but she is truly responsible for how I ended up where I am. As people say you're a better half. A better 80 percent. Yeah that's true well what you just talked about for the past several minutes is exactly why I love this podcast is because we go to the same places over and over and hear the same stories but we don't get to hear something that really just like shivers down my spine just hearing your story and this truly speaks towards your leadership qualities that we so deeply like it inspire us so deeply particularly how humble you are to even be able to share a story like that in a leader's position that you're in. I'm sure that that must have been because people probably struggle with sharing stories like that when you're in a role as a CEO. I think you're right but I don't know if it's just being a CEO people tend to want to put forward what they think people want to say. So what I'd rather say you got a Harvard MBA and you know I was a CEO when I was 23 but it's not a real story. The real story is the struggles that I went through. Yeah and I think if everybody just put their guard down a little bit and really express how they feel and what's going on and not I have to role model a physician or I have to role model a CEO or I mean I do I want the 52,000 employees to have confidence in me. They believe that we're head in the right direction that I actually know what I'm doing so I don't have to worry about their job but I don't want them to salute me. You know I want to talk about the Eagles Cowboys with the guys and and you know not the most recent. Yeah I don't want to talk about that one. But also you know talk to physicians about what's on your mind how could I help you and you know you mentioned cartoons some other things. A lot of that I was involved with because I just walked up to a physician and said how can I help you and next thing you know they're giving me ideas. I followed up on those ideas and then they gave me more and you know one thing leads to another but it starts with that. How can I help you? Yeah and it's and what a better quality to have you know as someone leading you know a health system where our whole goal is to how can we help patients how can we help you. You can let your guard down this is our most vulnerable moments that's exactly what you're looking for when you're trying to lead. What are some other great leadership qualities or other great leaders that you've maybe tried to model yourself after. Yeah no well some are specific to our industry. A lot of people stop by and you know give me career advice and I run I run through some things pretty quickly. Pick your organization first and your job second. You know people will come in and say I want to be a CEO and I said you can be one tomorrow. It's going to be searchlight Nevada and it's a 10-bed hospital in the middle of the desert but no no I meant I want to be the CEO of Penn Medicine that's a different thing. So I don't think people should pursue titles but pursue organizations that'll have impact and that's why you know I'm so blessed to be at Penn Medicine. And then from there go on whatever path you're meant to be on. You can go on whatever path you're meant to be on but also whatever path you choose to take. And which might not be CEO. Might not be CEO but it might be impactful. Would you rather be Carl June or Drew Weisman or Kevin Mahoney. Yeah man I'd rather be would you know a nurse at bedside over in Six Bruce in our behavioral health unit that could change somebody's life just like that nurse changed my life and in my story. I mean that's impact and people I think underestimate undervalue the impact you're having versus your title and your salary. Yeah and and I'd like people to assess a little bit more impact impact on your kids impact on your neighbors impact on patients pick your organization first your job second impact know what would you want to be measured by and and you know for me again it was impact and the third is to be kind and work harder than anybody around. Yes people look at my salary and they say man you get paid a lot of money I work really hard. Yeah and I try to tell my team you don't have to answer my 3 a.m. emails. I don't I don't expect everyone to work the same way I do but I have an urgency and impatience behind what we're doing that we got to pick it up. Yeah and I try to impart that urgency not craziness but urgency on the yeah on the workforce. Yeah I want to back step for a moment because I was so interested by your story so you were in the hospital you left you met your wife but then what truly guided you on this path like what really took you down at some point I want to be a leader in medicine path. I think that's a great question I think it came more naturally than that so again I'll take it through wasn't something you aspire you're like at one point I'm going to be the CEO. No no it was something that I realized I could become but it wasn't it was never on the path but I'll take you to my first day at Episcopal Hospital so I get off the L at Somerset which is was the open drug market open air drug market and at the time this would have been 1983 it was you know a neighborhood that was struggling but you still get on and off and so I hopped off the L I went in the door closest to the L station which was the basement door in the back of the hospital I had all my khaki pants my blue jacket my striped tie like I thought I was ready to look like a boss and I walked in and immediately the workers what are you doing down here who are you? It's my first day at work yeah but why are you down here? I said well it's my first day at work I'm headed up to administration and they're like no administration they parked their cars out front and they go in that door like why did you well because they took the L. Why are you down here? I said what's wrong with you guys we're going on strike and I said so you assume I'm the spy you know I can't why else would somebody from we haven't seen an administrator down here in a decade like why would you be here if you were in a spy? Interesting conversation a little unsettling but man they communicated to me they were going on strike and then went to my first meeting that day which was the strike task force and the vice president um running a Ken I won't give his last name but Ken told everybody what are you doing July 4th weekend well what about the strike they're not going on strike who are you? I'm Kevin Holywise where do I keep asking my name and and he said what's on your mind? I said they're going on strike he said no they're not I think they are he said I've been here 20 years you've been here two hours I think I'm right on June 30th I kissed Pam goodbye took the L back down to Episcopal went in there because I knew in midnight when they shut it down somebody's gonna have to wash the dishes and stuff like that and at midnight they shut it down the sun came up the next morning all the administrators were on the other side of the fence and I was on the inside of the fence and the point about leadership all of a sudden I realized I could do what that guy was doing I could be a vice president because he was just up there talking and you know by being present walking around listening understanding it was just it taught me a lot it also though unleashed what I try to tell people is probably the most important trait for a leader which is intellectual curiosity and so they had a personnel quit over this contract they said you want to run personnel I'll make this in two words I walked in the risk manager now I'm ahead of personnel and I had to go down and negotiate with the 1199c union and Henry Nicholas who is the leader I keep taught me this is why I do this is what I need you know back and forth and it wasn't it was um learning by a masterclass not by a book yeah like to learn at 24 union negotiations go from the head of 1199c a national union was just you know irreplaceable opportunity but I grabbed that opportunity and I probably kept them there longer than he expected because I was just quizzing and trying to gather up that that information so I don't think it was aspiring to be a leader it was aspiring to know and learn as much as I could so that I could help make the right decisions yeah it's you know there's so much talk especially you know when we've interviewed some prior leaderships at other hospitals so much talk about who should be fitting that role should it be a surgeon should it be medicine should it be outside of medicine but I think we're all losing focus and some of the most important things that you mentioned you have to have somebody that can walk around and hear what's needed in the hospital and maybe we're losing focus of maybe you don't need the Harvard MBA maybe you don't need to be a surgeon maybe you don't need to be medicine and you just need somebody who's grounded and can talk to people and things like that in addition to that I do think the future leaders of healthcare will be physicians why is that let's go through what do I have to do I need to understand the ecosystem well who knows the ecosystem better than a physician or advanced nurse like Regina Cunningham the CEO of HUB like you know we're in the clinical business so it makes sense that a clinician would run the clinical business the clinician runs Penn Medicine my boss John Epstein is a physician before that Larry Jameson before that Arthur Rubinstein Bill Kelly so Penn Medicine's always been led by a physician I think further though we'll have more physicians and leadership positions moving forward I hope that they'll adopt some of the practices that I just talked about yeah but if you don't understand the ecosystem including how we get paid you can't you can't run the place because how we get paid is sometimes counterintuitive to American business but that walking around I mentioned Carl June I met Carl and the first thing I said to him is like how do you spend your day well I go to my wet lab in BRB and then I go to my animal mouse hospitals up at Presby and then I come back here to see how the the patients are doing and I'm like this is before cell phones I'm like dude that's a lot of steps and a lot of unproductive time and Carl probably ran those steps but it got me thinking about the building that we put up the research building where the wet labs here the mouse hospitals here and the patients being treated on one elevator I see yeah so rather than I have to go you know accidentally bumping into somebody on the elevator saying you know I just saw this on his patient scan what do you think and that that face-to-face inquisitiveness I think that's the the main job of a CEO yeah you you've talked a lot about the the main job of CEO good leadership qualities in your role what do you think has been the greatest challenge or the thing that you're like I wasn't prepared for this well I mean I think that probably comes up almost I wasn't expecting this comes up all the time I think the greatest challenge has been interpreting the tea leaves from Washington whether it's Bill Clinton Joe Biden like it's not Republican Democrat but we're driven that's very true by that the policies that they make and trying to understand what they are what the impact will be and um uh uh health health resolution one which changed Medicaid and so much I can figure out the math problem of that so at Penn we're going to get paid $383 million less over the next 10 years I can figure it out what I can figure out is how do I get that poor person in West Philadelphia who had Medicaid yeah but has now kicked off the rolls and they're kicked off the rolls because work requirements you gotta you know you gotta re-register every six months those are the unexpected challenges but um and you know I I can certainly go through more but um you need to have like an adaptability and take whatever comes your way and be creative enough to be able to come up with solutions for these problems yeah they're so convoluted and and and also though um to face it head on yeah right so in the late 90s we were burning through cash faster than the US men could print it and we were going bankrupt and I I talk about the three room solution in room one uh the the university was thinking of selling the health system in room two there was a consulting group in the hunter group saying give us a management contract because the idiots run in the place can't can't do it in room three were the idiots who were running the place and we said if we don't stick together and figure this out they're gonna pick room one or two and we won't be here yeah and and we figured it out but it was it was convoluted it was a problem but we we faced it with bravado confidence um agility yeah that's a scary time yeah and one obviously one of the other um challenges that comes to everybody's mind is COVID-19 and navigating that tell me about those dark times and and how we were able to pull ourselves through that and come out on the other side yeah I I think it's a layered response that I want to give you yeah um so how we got through it was together how we also got through it I think was by listening and lastly we got through it by science and and we shouldn't um we shouldn't forget that last one um so I remember I was with Dr. Jamison he was a Dean have you heard about this virus in China yeah you know it seems we're sweeping through and we opened a building uh at Chester County Hospital on March the 6th that was the last time for months we would all be together and we were cutting that ribbon and um there were a couple name tags missing and they were missing because those people had COVID if they had been there we might have been the super spreader event yeah you know that that happened but we we were methodical in how we went through it we were on the phone at seven and four every day with the whole team seven days a week here from Dr. Governor Wolfe here and from the physicians you remember bend the curve yeah you know yeah I got on a video you know a talent hall and I told everybody we're going to bend the curve stay six feet apart where you're masking we'll get through this together I left my office I was walking across the bridge over to Old Hop and one of my employees stopped me and they said I just heard you saying my kids are going to die that's what he's talking about and he said maybe where you live staying six feet apart is possible in my house I have four kids in one bedroom yeah we can't say all of a sudden it was man I better be careful what I'm saying yeah because people are listening to every word that I'm putting out right they wanted so much to believe that there was someone looking out for the the future so we did that um the science part you know we're very proud of Dr. Weisman and Dr. Creco incredible Nobel Prize incredible yeah they just rapid turnaround it shows you when America says we're going to do something and we're together we can get it done yeah you know John Kenny we're going to moon by the end of the century president trump you know operation warp speed we're going to get this and we did because we eliminated so many of the red tape but also the arguments back and forth about who's getting credit not getting credit and Alex Gorski who's the president J&J he'd be calling me what's it like what can I help you with and um you know he was in competition with BioNTech and Moderna for operation warp speed but he parked that like he wanted to win at the same time he wanted to find out where the thing's going on that that he could um he could help with um we learned a lot uh we relearned a lot about teamwork because without that red tape I mean we were standing uh David Ash and the team stood up COVID watch yeah in nine days and we published a paper on it that you know we saved a lot of lives with COVID watch and it was an app the worst thing to do if you were thought you were sick or not is go to the emergency room because if you weren't sick you were going to get sick sitting in that emergency room yeah go in the emergency room probably meant you were going to end up you know pulse ox get you know admitted and  and neseruaginetid. So we were able to use remote patient monitoring to keep people out of the hospital to follow them. You know, if they got sick, they got expedited in. But they built that I think in, like I said, nine days. Today it might take me nine years. The other thing that was great, every Friday at noon, Jefferson Temple, Children's Hospital, Einstein, we were all on the phone together. What do you need? You know, Einstein, we're out of gowns. All right, we'll send you gowns, but you got to promise you're going to replenish it because, you know, but it wasn't, people weren't hoarding, we were sharing. We were trying to survive. Today that doesn't happen, like we compete, but for one brief shining moment, there was no competition. That's special when, you know, it shows just humanity. When something that, you know, significant boosts up, we kind of all put all the other stuff aside and try to solve what truly matters. And that brings me also just to Penn Medicine's legacy, you know, just thinking about how special it is being where we are now. But what are some of the things that, like you find special about Penn Medicine and what makes us different? And like what's part of our DNA here that separates us? I think what separates us is our dedication to science. And, you know, we have a huge health system, 8 million outpatient visits, 135,000 inpatient admissions, almost 12 billion of revenue every year. It is a remarkably large place. We're taking care of a patient today. We're also using what we learned from that patient and take care of a patient in the future. And our legacy will be where we started. Knowledge gets created at Penn and quickly disseminated. Not, we're going to hold on to it. If you're one of the Carl June, he's very proud of having the first FDA approval for gene therapy. He's more proud that 50,000 people worldwide have received his treatment. Like he keeps track of how many. And that shows the Penn legacy. There's some child cured of acute leukemia will say in Texas. They don't know Penn. We don't have a big football team. They don't know Dr. June or Dr. Carrico or, but they're alive because of Penn. And I think that'll be our long-term legacy. But we're able again, able to do that because the health system funds a lot of the research. So when the NIH won't fund, because Carl had a crazy idea. And the answer was you have any clinical data. It's kind of hard to get clinical data if you won't give me a grant. So, you know, we were able to help those early studies together with philanthropy and then, you know, the rest took off. And I guess along the same lines, one thing that I'm always curious about is especially during COVID, but even beyond that is how Penn is well financially and profitable. And especially during COVID where I'm hearing about like hospitals closing and just being in the red where Penn was able to maintain itself. And recently, I think they just reported what the profits were for the first quarter of the year. What do you think helps it be still financially strong? So people call us and ask that question. So since the late 90s, we've never lost money, including, including during COVID, there are a lot of federal dollars coming in, but we made money from operations. And it is just a fiscal discipline that you have to have. And a lot of people call, can I, you know, come tell me your secret? The secret is our revenues are higher than our expenses. Like that, there's no other way than hard work. But I think it's dependent upon trust more than anything. And what I mean by that, COVID hit, people were worried about their jobs, you know, hotels were closed and a lot of people were out of work. And we made a promise no one will lose their job at Penn Medicine because of COVID. And we paid a lot of people to stay home. They didn't have to use their PTO, they got paid. And I think that, you know, when it passed, they came back re-energized because we had, we took care of them and vice versa. We have a great funds flow system. So our goal is to get as much money over the threshold and then we disperse it. Other systems, the practice plan wants to get the most money because they don't want to share with the hospital. The hospital wants to get the money because they want to share with the practice plan. Philanthropy comes in, people want to, you know, donate the science, but they want their name on one of our buildings. We put the name on the building because we're integrated, you know, we're one. So I think being mission driven and understanding that, you know, we're working for a higher purpose, which is cures, not just getting bigger. I think that is number one reason why we've been profitable is mission number two is fiscal discipline runs through us like no tomorrow. And it's probably a result of the late 90s. And then third is it's a very collaborative organization and people will stop me and give me ideas and I'm able to bounce ideas off people and it's never, there are no dumb ideas. There are dumb solutions, but we're often, you know, we talk each other out of those solutions. I think the very last thing I'd say on it, it is a highly matrixed organization where, you know, we're probably the only 12 billion dollar organization that doesn't publish an organizational chart. And, you know, it is, but if you work the matrix, what comes out the other side is almost always guaranteed to be a winner because a lot, so you can get frustrated. Like why do I do a talk that person? Why I've talked that person? If you do all those steps, you'll probably have a better solution than if you don't have, you don't have to work that hard to get things out. Yeah. I think this is sort of going off script, but I'm so curious about it. I'm sure you'd be curious about it too is thinking about all of the residents, medical students, medical students go through a crazy amount of debt. Yes. Unbelievable amount of debt. And then you become a resident and your pay is not the same as your buddies who went into finance and investment banking for another four or five years and then you do a fellowship, you're still underpaid. And so then there's this move like NYU, for instance, to do tuition free for medical school. I know Hopkins has made their medical school tuition free if you make a certain income with your families. Do you ever see the future of medicine potentially offering that, for instance, at Penn Medicine for future medical students, etc? Well, currently, it's about 60% of our class is tuition free. So it's not across the board. And what through what means? Anthlanthropy. Mr. Gamble, who just passed the Gamble Scholars, he endowed that. Mr. Perlman, we have the Perlman Scholars, he endowed that, but it's means tested. But it's about 60%. Mm hmm. I think more important is, and it's in our strategic plan is to shrink the length of time to become a physician. Yes. And I think there are a lot of tools that we're going to be able to use to do that. Dr. Jamison said, you know, when I graduated, he's an endocrinologist. He said, I want to know everything there was to know about endocrinology. And if you ever met Dr. Jamison, I think he probably did. And that carried him forward. He was a subject matter expert. He said, you know, with AI, with all the resources, maybe not be the subject matter expert as much as I know how to get data that you can trust. Not just any data now, but, you know, be able to sit through that and move forward. So does that take four years? So, you know, and Dr. Epstein and Dr. Jen Kogan are working on that. As you know, not, I don't want anyone to listen and think, depends, shorten in it, but the discussions on the way. Same thing on training, you know, particularly surgical training, which is you got to watch some, then you hold a retractor for some, and then you open and then you move along. Dan Hashimata, one of our surgeons, his tag tagline is Dr. Laprascope on LinkedIn, but he's working on, you know, how do I teach the robot in virtual reality, as opposed to on a person? And could we shrink seven years of cardiac surgery to five? Could you shrink? It makes a big difference. Makes a big difference in the cost. Makes a big difference in your earning potential. You brought it up. It's 100% correct. But people will say, you know, a neurosurgeon makes you know, $1.7 million. That's a pretty good living. Yeah, but from 22, correct, it's 38. They didn't. Whereas if you're in fintech, you're making money that whole time. So we think a big thing is to compress, not to make it so fast that we don't produce great physicians, but to be more efficient in education that'll lower the cost. And like in Europe, we had this discussion this morning where you're combining undergrad with medical school and accelerating that path. And it's funny you mentioned this as well, but a lot of my friends in undergrad went into, you know, are now hedge fund and private equity already talking about retirement. I'm just starting my job, you know, and I trained in general surgery, which was seven years to then become a plastic surgeon. Did I really need all those seven years, you know, but just an interesting topic. The other thing that I want to talk about is something near and dear to my heart. I'm from Virginia, but I've absolutely grown to love Philadelphia. It's a city, just like this medical library, this hospital itself, it's such a unique city with such a tremendous history and legacy. How do you think that that's kind of shaped Penn to where it is today, but also like now Penn is expanding, you're building a cancer center in Princeton. And so what's the future of Penn that initiated in Philadelphia? So I mean, Penn in Philadelphia, the stories are linked. You know, if you go down to 4th Street, you'll find the plaque. Yes. Here was Pennsylvania Academy, which was the University of Pennsylvania. I love history. And one of the things that you read about is you can't do higher education in urban setting. So we're going to move all the way on the other side of the Skouko River because this city will never get there. And it's, it's gone. But then in the in the late 1800s, a gentleman by Henry Erdman, there was a move to move Penn to Valley Forge. And the university owned a huge amount of property out there. And Mr. Erdman gave money to put up a building on the Valley Forge campus, the University of Pennsylvania. We used that money to build Penn Medicine at Valley Forge. So the history of Philadelphia and Penn is just completely linked and always will be. The part of the Philadelphia culture that I think is ingrained in Penn is gritty. You know, my father-in-law came in to get his cancer treated. And I remember the fellow said, you know, he said, I'm going to die, right? And the fellow said, we're stubborn. We're not letting you go yet. And it just that willingness to, the hours that the scientists put in to come up with cures and, you know, they get data. Other people will be like, this is never going to work. They readjust and move forward. So I think that that grit that makes Philadelphia Philadelphia is a key ingredient for Penn Medicine. So as we go to Princeton in the Cancer Center, it's not we're coming up. We know everything. We're coming up. We're going to outwork anybody in Mercer County. And we're not going to give up. We're going to bring the latest treatments and bring that teamwork of if we all pull together, we can improve this patient's life. I hope that. And what do you think about like an international presence? Do you see that that's going to be expanding as well? Yeah, it's a tough, it's a tough question. Dr. Glenn Gaughan has done a wonderful job expanding our educational footprint. So medical school in Vietnam, yeah, that we know medical school in Dubai, I think it fits with create the knowledge and disseminate it, you know, on the healthcare side, it's a little trickier. So a lot of places have either built hospitals overseas. Not sure that's our mission. Yeah, a lot of places have spent a lot of time trying to attract international patients to your hospital because they pay cash. Yeah, as a nonprofit. Should I have a bed for somebody from a foreign country, why a patient in West Philly can't get into the emergency room because it's so I think there's there's a balance. To date, we have stuck with our mission is in West Philadelphia, Lancaster, Princeton, the 27 counties that we take care of and any patient that wants to come. But on the international side, I think we're going to stick to what we're doing best right now. Yeah, Sir, let he's very proud of a slide that he always shares for all the incoming trainees and residents where he shows where Penn plastic surgery kind of started. And now he puts like a pen a pen shield everywhere that it's expanded to which is very impressive. But Dr. Srelady has also done that a lot himself. Yeah. Yeah. Way before Lancaster became part, Dr. Srelady was staying in a holiday in. Yes, he's see patients, he's sleeping the holiday ends, he patients the next day. And it's the grit. It is the grit. Yeah. You know, if you were the head of plastic surgery at Penn, you wouldn't think that you wouldn't think that you think you know, the guy does, you know, reconstructive and cosmetic surgeon probably doesn't you know, he's got an easy life, not he's moving to always comes down to like what we talked about earlier, the best leaders are on the ground putting in just as much work, if not more work than all the people that are representing that's what the best leaders do. They don't stay up and they're high, you know, and Dr. Srelady, I'm using Joe, but so many of our physicians are just fearless. Right. They learned a technique when they were 37 new technique comes out of 45. I'll relearn because I you know, I want I want to stay better net that fearlessness I think is also a hallmark of Penn. You think of other careers, you know, you want to learn it and just do the same thing each time. Yeah. And that's not available to a Penn doctor. Well, you know, one thing that he always says is he he actually which is it goes back to your point he actually trained in craniofacial surgery. So when he was initially doing microsurgery, which is completely different sub discipline, he was teaching himself and then people would tell him, don't do it this way, you should do it the way that everybody else does it and the way that the textbook right and he was like, why not do it this way is like this way will work too. In fact, a lot of the ways that he has done it is better than the ways. So just like you were talking about like people telling you, you know, and just forging your own path, etc. So yeah, no, what Joe Sirletti said is what Bill Rouse said exactly Bill Rouse was a real estate developer physician. But that fearlessness of I can figure this out the curiosity to not stick in the safe lane, but to expand I think is really important. I want to talk about we've we've we've hit this a few times already, but then the Nobel Prize and everything that's surrounding that in such a desperate time. What we talked about the grit at the hard work. What do you think actually made that happen at Penn Medicine? It happened many years before. Yeah. And you know, we talk a lot about the famous copy machine. Yeah. You know, we're Dr. Crico and yes, Dr. Weisman ran into each other. I actually think one of the heroes is Harvey Friedman, who was the chief of infectious disease and brought in an immunologist in his division. And an immunologist who had such crazy ideas that elaboration, but he couldn't get grant see but Harvey said there's something there and he kept growing and nurturing and Dr. Weisman had his idea. He met you're being kept in the loop during this time. No, I mean, later on people mentioned messenger RNA to me, but nobody was in the loop like early on. I'm talking way before COVID. Yeah. You know, but messenger RNA, it really wasn't. I don't know how to say like everybody kind of knew about it. But yeah, and occasionally somebody said, well, Madonna is really interested in what we can make some royalties. Nobody really knew yeah what a messenger RNA platform would do. Yeah, Drew and Katie did. And it turned out to be, you know, save the world put the pandemic and stop them in strikes. Again, we're talking about qualities of leadership. Dr. Weisman won the breakthrough prize. And we had a little ceremony of all of our breakthrough prize winners. Dr. Weisman, Dr. June, Dr. Virginia Lee. And, you know, they're being asked questions. What are we doing five years from now? I think most people in the audience thought, well, I'll be retired. Yeah, I just want to know about. I just want to know about prize. I'm going to Disney World or something. And Dr. Weisman says, I think I'll be walking through sub Sahara Africa with an Eagle Core full of one shot vaccines for sickle cell disease. He's already on to the next thing already on and not a tweak of what he's doing. But like completely bold. And you brought up humility a couple of times. You wouldn't expect to know about prize winner this day. I'm going to be walking through Africa with an Eagle Core. Yeah. But he's in it for the right reason. You know, but it also and I know we're almost out of time. I think another big part of Penn is we have a sacred obligation for health equity and accessibility. Yes. So Dr. June. Yes. First FDA approval at a time it was $479,000 a dose. I remember Zika manual, road and editorial. Can we afford to cure? But now scientists are working on in vivo solutions and how can we make how can we take $10 off the manufacturing process so that everybody in America can get that drug, not just rich people. And I think that's another part of our obligation. Yeah. The the CAR T therapy story that we talked about to be able to receive the treatment that you create is just incredible. What was kind of do you think that that's along the same lines as what we talked about when it came to like the messenger RNA just continuing to work at something with the support of your I think it's continuing to work at it. But it's also follow the science. So Dr. June and David Porter, Mike Kalos, Bruce Levine, they were the inventors of the CD 19 treatment. And they had a 10 person trial. They ran out of money on the first three because it was much more expensive than we thought. So it had enough money for 10 only do three. What are we going to do now? They're having lunch down in Gio Prano right in the Perlman center. And they said, let's publish. Right. Should we go try to get philanthropy? Should we ask the NIH for more money? Maybe we should go ask the health system for money. It was will publish. And that set off the race. It was like, you know, the starter gun went off and everybody wanted to buy it. We put so much emphasis on those first three patients were chronic leukemia, CLL. That's where we wanted all the research money to go. So we signed with Novartis. It didn't work. Carl then took the research, a lot of the research money and reach across the street to Dr. Steven Grubb at CHOP and said, pediatric AOL. It was the first time I'm not a scientist, but old T cells versus young T cells and, you know, maybe pediatric leukemia is something that we could have better success. But who would take money that was Novartis gave to Dr. June and Dr. June and Dr. June said, I'm going to share some with Dr. Grubb because I want to collaborate. And that doesn't happen in many industries. And Steven has become just a world renowned expert in pediatric AOL and has come up with many, many inventions. But I worked so hard to get all that money for a pen. And when Carl walked in, I didn't give it some away. I'm like, but he knew what was the right thing. Yes. And that's the thing is like trusting your people, you know, to do the right thing and just having that trust in them that they know what they're doing is the right thing. But I think back to what we just talked about, CAR-T, Nobel Prize, messenger RNA, everything else that's happening at Penn Medicine where Penn's expanding to, a lot of it has happened under your leadership. And what do you hope to be remembered for in 50 years from now? Hopefully he was a good husband and a good father. Yeah. Now behind that was he cared and he made a difference. Yeah. I think from everyone that we've talked to before on these broadcasts, it sounds like a lot of it starts at home, you know, and if you have that foundation, good support from your wife who allows you to answer emails at 3am, is she in healthcare at all? Pam was a special ed teacher. She worked at the Orbrook School for the Blind and then helped raise our kids and now she should get a paycheck from Penn because she's down here all the time. Yeah. And she's very supportive of me, but also knows almost as many people as Penn as I do and they'll tell her, you know, Kevin was off his game today or could you, you know, put this in and just very helpful. But I think whether you're a parent or a CEO, it's pretty much the same job description and a lot of lessons from parenting apply to run in large organizations. So I think that might be why some things end up at home. You seem like you would share this with the audience and I love asking people this, but what's your kind of day to day like? Like, how much sleep do you need? Do you do anything outside of work? Currently or currently? Yeah. So no, we're, I am working, working, working. I mean, the one, our grandkids, you know, love going down and seeing them and where are they? To a Nashville and one just left for Oregon. So I have asked myself, why do my kids move far away from me? You have to make time for your grandkids. So. Oh, no, for sure. For sure. But there's a lot going on right now. I will tell you a lesson I learned though pre COVID. The world's been different post COVID for sure. But pre COVID was, if I stared at a problem, I couldn't solve it. So I would be coaching my kids little league team, saying out there at third base, where the kids struck out for the fourth time in a row and, you know, oh man, that's how I'm going to solve that problem. Yeah. Right. I was on the local school board for 10 years and be sitting there and you got to reduce taxes. You know, you got to fire the football coach and everyone's screaming at you. And I'd be thinking about a part like if I stared at the problem, I couldn't solve it. Yeah. When you're distracted all of a sudden, you say, oh man, that's, that's what I should do. Yeah, that's a way to solve it. So the period right now I'd be lying if I didn't say my days are five AM usually home. I don't know nine, eight to nine somewhere around there, because there's almost always an evening event. And then I'll fall asleep and then I'll be up from two to three 30. Yeah. You must love what you do. I do. It's it. But I also love my country and I think, I think some of us have to step up and show there's a way forward. And I think Penn Medicine needs to be part of that solution. Yeah. We have a big initiative we're going to announce shortly on copial use. So it's not just Nobel Prize work. It's the things that Philadelphia, it takes you back to Philadelphia, what's important. Yeah. Well, I know we have a few more questions that we still want to ask you. But I'll ask you one more specifically. So I'm getting my MPH through Penn. And yesterday I was kind of surprised because one of my professors for the first time, everyone kind of across the board when you're talking about graduate studies, sort of says, don't use artificial intelligence. Don't use it. You see all these news stories about, you know, kids should not use it in college. For the first time, my professor yesterday said, for this assignment, I want you to use Jack GPT. And he embraced it. And he said, next year, I'm going to look to using more AI in our classes. And it's one of those things that I think to myself, it's like a technology that's coming. And eventually we're going to have to embrace it. And it could be very helpful. Where do you see AI kind of in the future of medicine and Penn medicine? AI is coming incredibly fast. It's going to change the way we do work. There are going to be two groups, those who embraced it and those who didn't. And you better be in the group that embraces it. I think AI in the classroom is very similar. I'm so much older than you guys. When growing up, could you use a calculator in math class? Should you have to be able to repeat by rote the formulas? And I'm talking probably the highest function was a square root. And no, you can't use that. No one's going to prevent you from using that in real life. But TI 30, by the time my nephews and nieces, they got more computing power in the TI 30 than I had in my Apple 2e. So AI is coming. I think we need to switch. How do you use it responsibly? How do you use it to prevent this information? Which is real and not real? I saw a clip the other day, it was President Kennedy standing in Dealey Plaza saying, you guys were all wrong. The shot came from over there. It looked and sounded just like him. I mean, it was incredible. And how, you know, it's going to be critical. But it's coming. I wanted to be embraced because it can make us more efficient. It can lower the cost of health care, it can make it more accessible. Maybe physicians won't have to...  wait until the 37 to get their first paying job. Maybe patients will be able to access Penn Medicine from the other side of the world through ALI. And robotic surgery, the future's gonna be a surgeon standing in Philadelphia, the patient can be in Florida. And it's gonna change so for young people. It's gonna happen. But I remember my dad worked for boroughs and mainframes and paper cards and I brought home an Apple IIE and he's like, that's got no power. Well, that's a gimmick. Yeah. Not so much a gimmick, but I worry we use terms like digital native and pre-internet and post-internet and the good news of AI is it can democratize scarcity. Right, so if you're in a part of the country where there aren't enough teachers, your education's not gonna be as well. Could AI fill in that part? Yeah. Rural, Pennsylvania, we're always talking about, we gotta get more doctors to go to rural Pennsylvania so we'll provide incentives. Well, could AI smooth out some of those valleys? And I think that's a positive. The negative, we have to make sure that the good guy's AI is better than the bad guy's AI. And that's where I think the role of higher education will be, is how do you ferret that out and how do you make sure the right stuff's getting through? I think one of the positive things I've noticed is health literacy and patient care communication. One thing that I'm amazed by on Epic these days, I'll get a patient question and then AI will generate educational material to provide the patient based off of that question. And I think that, especially when it comes to health literacy and I'm learning through the MBA studies, how many people don't, you don't understand how hard it is for them to grasp this knowledge as a patient. But AI could hopefully perhaps expand that and allow them to better understand it through educational material, et cetera. So I think that that was been an incredible positive aspect of it. Yeah, I was on a call with one of our physicians in my 94 year old mother-in-law, she needs to have a procedure. And he went through the procedures and we find it, just worry about anesthesia. You're gonna be breathing on your own, but you won't remember anything. You know, we went through that four or five times. And then he said, while you're asleep, I'll do a colonoscopy as well. What do you mean I'm gonna be asleep? You told me I wasn't gonna be asleep. No, no, no. He said you're gonna be breathing on your own, the words he was using aren't what she was using. You take it for granted when you're just speaking. Because you were trained that. So democratizing knowledge, sharing knowledge, breaking it down. I think AI has a lot of those benefits for, the downside physicians will be when the patient shows up like a dang a dang a fever. Is that right? Yes, yes. Actually you don't. You've never left for when Pennsylvania, but you guys can have to deal with that as well. And hopefully AI might replace radiologists, but hopefully they'll never replace surgeons. AI will never replace a doctor, trust me. Because the knowledge will keep growing and Dr. Tessa Cook is in radiology, she does our radiology informatics. You'll never replace her. I mean, maybe we'll get quicker. You won't need serial CT scans for a lung nodule. Maybe we just need one. But you're still gonna need a radiologist. It's way overblown when people say we're not gonna need doctors. Well, and I have to adapt. Adapt, and I think going back to one of the initial things that you said about just the human touch in that patient-physician interaction, that's irreplaceable. Which also has such a dramatic impact on patients. It's just the nice patient-doctor interaction that you get that you can't get through AI. You know, but we have some fun questions we wanna end on. Yeah. Couple of rapid fires. Who would you say, like a book or a leader that shaped you? A book would be Stephen Covey's Seven Habits of Highly Effective People. And I say that because don't read it. The only one that matters is empathy. And that is one of the seven. And I think that is the hallmark of the medical profession. Don't pass judgment on your patient. Don't, you know, but understand where they are. The other part, though, would be any history books. Winston Churchill. He was talking about him at the beginning. Yeah. You know, in the reflection of time, a colonist, a racist and the like, but he did lead a country forward in pretty tough times. So from a leadership, President Kennedy has always fascinated me and his brothers. So I've read a lot of those, but I think those are... Yeah. I got a book the other day from a friend, Marcus Aurelius, who's in Gladiator. Yeah, Meditations. Yeah, I have that book. Incredible. Really, I'm really enjoying it. When they gave it to me, large print format. It's not that big of a book. I said, how old do you think I am? It's like 22-5. I was gonna get Saeed a copy of all pictures. So thank you, Frank. A place in Philadelphia that grounds you or that you enjoy going to from time to time. It can't be related to Penn Medicine. Yeah. The place that probably I enjoy going to the most right now is any of the restaurants around Rittenhouse Square. Yeah, one of your favorite. And we go through, probably Park. Yeah, I love Park. That's also, it's comfortable. And the new one they just opened up is pretty good too, I like it. The part of Philly that naturally, you know, is Old City. It's a great spot. We did the Big Bus Store, which is a highly recommended to the listeners. The other thing I wanted to mention before I go into the last question is I'm happy that Penn took over that billboard right by Hop. Did you ever drive by it and you say, what, we have to change this? Not only did I drive by it every day, people take pictures. In case you're seeing this, I've seen it. There must be a very expensive billboard. Not so much. You won't, of late, you will not have seen many Penn billboards. They're very expensive in terms of how many you have to have for saturation. Like single billboards, not so much. Saturations a lot. And we've tended to think people don't buy healthcare from a billboard, so we've stayed away from it. NYU put that up. UT Southwestern runs a commercial on Sunday morning TV. No patient is gonna be driving up the exit to Penn Madison saying, oh, I have a schedule with my oncologist, but I'm gonna turn around and go 90, 90. Look at that solid. But we're in a talent war. Yeah. And I think they wanted all the Penn doctors to know they're by vision ranking, they're number one in the country. And I think that was actually the purpose of it, not patient, but talent-wise. But you'll now see it's a Penn Madison billboard. I saw that. Did you buy the rights forever? Not for a long time. I'm not going through that again. Just like I remember when the train station was changed to Penn Madison, that was a big deal. Renaming it to Penn Madison. Yeah. But first, I want to tell you what I think is a funny story. But second, SEPTA needs money. 9,000 Penn employees use that every day. So yeah, we got our name on the station, but it wasn't to get our name on the station, it was I was trying to help out and keep them going because so many of our employees are dependent on it. Especially at a time like this. And now it's especially they could use it. Yeah. It's struggling. But again, I don't think anybody said, oh, this is Penn Madison station, not University City. I should go to Penn Madison. But it was to help that. But Steve Casco at Jefferson, who's a great friend, was one of the first people to buy a station. So Market East is now Jefferson station. And I said, Steve, I'm not sure I'm following that. I said, most people from out of town who get off there, we're gonna think it's named after Thomas Jefferson and the Declaration of Independence. You're wrong, you're wrong, you're wrong. And he said, you were paid for it. I did. And he said, I said, we got Penn Station in New York. We got Penn Station in Baltimore. I didn't pay for any of them. Yeah. And then lastly, you've been CEO, I think during two Super Bowl wins. Do you see the causation? Yeah. What do you think? Do you think they were gonna make it to this last Super Bowl? I do. I do. I hope you're right. The past couple of games have not been. It's one or the other. It's gonna be a repeat of 2023. And they're gonna lose out for adversity shapes character. And they're gonna step up and figure it out. And as a fan, I'm counting on them to step up and figure it out. Did this city make you a fan or were you always kind of interested in it? No. We were nursed on Eagles. Bless the Red Sox for other reasons. But Sixers, Union, Phillies, Eagles, I mean, I checked the scores all the time. Watch what I could of the game last night when I wasn't falling asleep in my chair. Well, thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thanks for having me. I hope I didn't ramble on two. We know how busy your day is. So it even means more that you took the time. The story you share, I just never get to hear. And so I'm so happy that we have the opportunity to talk about it and to have people learn from it. And our listeners are gonna just learn so much and we're so appreciative. So I appreciate it. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. And thanks for hiring both of us. Ha ha.

=== FILE: Update of Osteoporosis Management [e1kgf4uSvFY].txt ===

 and alfalfa. Welcome everyone to the Penn Primary Care Podcast. I'm your host, Dr. Kendall Williams. So osteoporosis is a topic that we've done a couple of times on the Penn Primary Care Podcast. But it's a topic that has experienced some changes in the last couple of years. But also an area that I think we as primary care physicians are increasingly being asked to manage ourselves. There aren't an infinite number of rheumatologists and endocrinologists in the world. And so a lot of us, osteoporosis, is a very common disease, very common problem. And so we're often asked to manage this in primary care. And if I speak for myself, I'm not completely comfortable, especially when you get beyond some of the most basic therapies. So for that reason, I asked the director of the Penn Bone Center at Penn, Dr. Mona Almukadam, to come back on the podcast to help answer some questions. Hi, Mona. Thanks for coming again. Yeah, no, thank you so much for having me. Looking forward to answering your questions. For the audience out there, there was a wonderful podcast done a couple of years ago in which Mona covered a lot of the basics of osteoporosis management. A podcast hosted by Amber Bird and Ronnie Nandawada, and it was excellent. So please, I think most of that content is still relevant. What I really wanted to do is bring Mona back on to really talk very practically about how we as primary care physicians can maybe get beyond a little bit some of the most basic treatments, meaning the FOSMAX and so forth, and do some more advanced treatment on our own. But first, Mona, I actually wanted to highlight three things that have caught my eye in the last couple of years in osteoporosis care. And I sent you these questions beforehand. But I think the first one is a potentially significant study that came out in 2025, looking at the use of zoologronic acid reclassed for patients who are osteopenic to prevent bone fractures down the line. Now, I know this comes in the context of a history where we started initially with FOSMAX and other bisphosphonates treating in the osteopenic range, and then we found that was kind of a mistake. And so we started to treat only when patients were truly osteoporotic. But now this trial comes out that suggests a couple of doses spaced five years apart may have benefits. Can you illuminate that for us a bit? Yeah, absolutely. So I think I'm going to first start with answering a question that you did not ask. The way we have shifted in terms of thinking of osteoporosis treatment is really a fracture reduction. And I think that's really been the biggest paradigm that we have done when you look at all the treatment guidelines now. They really now risk stratify patients in terms of the highest risk of fractures. And the ones who are at highest risk of fractures are the ones who have had fractures in the past or at having very high risk of fractures as calculated by FRAX or because they have very low T scores. So what I try to do with my patients now when I see them is you say osteoporosis, you think about osteoporosis, you think about your bone material density and T scores. But what I care about the most is preventing fractures and not preventing osteoporosis. So I think that paradigm has shifted where it's talking about preventing fractures and not preventing osteoporosis. The second paradigm that has shifted is allowing us to diagnose patients with osteoporosis if they're calculated risk of having a fracture. And I think common fracture calculation tools like FRAX, if it is high enough that it would meet treatment threshold, we can actually define those patients as having osteoporosis as well. And so I think that was very interesting. And then that also goes towards talking about our younger patients who were, as you mentioned in the study in the New England Journal of Medicine study, where they included younger post-menopausal women. So in the ages of between 50 to 60, where they had what we call osteopenia, meaning that they don't have a T score minus 2.5 or below, but have a T score between 1 to minus 2.5. And they gave them IVs, alderonic acid either once and then followed them for 10 years. And then another group received IVs, alderonic acid at baseline and then five years later and then also followed them up for 10 years. And then the third group, they received placebo, right, at baseline then five years and then followed them up for 10 years. And in that study, it showed that whether you gave one dose of reclast or you gave two doses five years apart, those patients had less compression fractures in their spine by about 40% compared to those who did not really receive zealodronic acid. So again, we're not talking about BMD changes, even though the BMD did improve in those who received zealodronic acid. But the reason why this study was impactful was because it talked about fracture reduction 10 years out the line. So that was very impactful. One, second, you think about why we are concerned about initiating treatments early on with bisphosphonates is because we understand the cumulative side effects of prolonged use of bisphosphonates. So when you use bisphosphonates for five years continuously, we're worried about the stress fractures happening in the thigh bone, which is what we call atypical femur fractures. And so we're doing drug holidays. And so that's why we in the past would talk about is your risk of having a fracture high, is your risk of having a fracture high or not. And we wouldn't be treating the patients to prevent osteoporosis per se, or treating osteopenia per se. And I think that was a very interesting paper because now I'm like telling my patients like just take one dose. You know, what is the harm the side effects are very minimal, you're only taking one dose. So we're not worried about prolonged use of this medication. And now I have the data to tell me that this will reduce the risk of having fractures in the future. So in that sense, I think it has changed how I practice things where I might say, just take one dose and see me back in five years. And so I think that in that sense really has changed. How are you predicting who would benefit from that? I mean, osteopenia or low bone mineral density, which you taught us in the last podcast, is a broad category. You said it's from minus one to minus 2.5. Virtually all women fit into that category at a certain time of life, right? So who gets the IB reclass once? Yeah, this is a very interesting question because we don't see those patients, right? These are not the ones we're coming referred to as specialists. This is for you guys to decide who would get them. I don't know that you have to do this, but you do want to think about the patient and they're maybe using the facts and calculating the risk of having a fracture. So that would look at other risk factors if they have a low BMI, if they've had prior fractures, if their parents have had a hip fracture, and looking at other comorbidities or other medications that they might be on if they have rheumatoid arthritis, if they are on prednisone. So I like to joke about this, but my husband's also a physician and he looks at me. He's like, you do all these calculations and he's like, I can see a person walking into the door if they look like they're going to break their bones or not. And so I really think clinical judgment continues to be very important when you're looking at the patient. Does this patient look like they're going to fall? Do they look frail? Are you worried about them breaking a bone? And if you are, then just give them a dose of reclass. And if these are people who are very muscular, they really don't look like they're going to fall at all, they don't really need it. Then you're less likely to recommend treatment. I think for like, if I have to switch and think like a primary care doctor, I think it's important then to go back and kind of remind people when do you order a DEXA scan? So usually DEXA scans you are ordered for routine screening for post-menopausal women ages 65 and above. So automatically, if you're ordering a DEXA for someone who is younger, there must be some reason as to why you're ordering it. So that's also something to kind of factor into your decision as to why was this DEXA scan done? Was it done as part of a research study? Was it done because the patient went to some fair where they were offering it? Versus were you doing it for clinical concerns for osteoporosis, which I think would also play a role into deciding if you should give that patient one dose of Zellgenic acid or not. Yeah, I think that we probably all have a sense of who is at risk and to your point that, you know, patients who are on steroids, but the patients who have just sort of thin bones and are petite and stature and so forth and so forth. So actually, I'm going to bring into this a conversation when I had with a wonderful patient of mine who's an MD, a psychiatrist who's very thoughtful and is 53 and is just fits that category. She's very active and exercises regularly, but she's petite and stature and you would look at her and think that maybe in the future she may have osteoporosis. So that is, I think, relevant to the discussion of whether or not IV Zellgenic acid at some point in the next few years might be a good idea. And I recall she's pending a DEXA. But the other question we had was really tying into the last podcast we did, which I think you've had an opportunity to listen to, on hormone therapy and how that fits into this discussion. Because that was a discussion I had with her about whether or not she should consider it. And there was a variety of factors to go into that. We went into all that detail in the last podcast, but when it comes to your population of folks, has it changed at all in terms of how you're thinking about hormone therapy? So yeah, I actually did listen to that podcast and it was very interesting. And there's a lot of factors you have to think about when you're thinking about hormone therapy, about risks and benefits. And so in anything that we recommend, it's really talking about the risks and benefits of each intervention. When it comes to bone health, we tend to think of the medications that we have right now, whether Fosomax or Reclas or Dinosomab, as being way more efficacious in terms of fracture risk reduction compared to estrogen therapy and also safer in that sense. And so from our perspective, if I think my patient is at very high risk of having fractures and I want to give them effective therapy, then I would be recommending those medications. But I think that your patient who's a physician who's 53 is maybe not in that category. This is someone where you're talking about how can I optimize her bone health from now to prevent osteoporosis or keep her at a lower risk of having fractures. And that's where I talk about estrogen. We talk about the woman health initiative study when it did look at fracture risk reduction, which was shown to be efficacious. It was through an oral form of estrogen, which was potentially much higher doses of estrogen than what is now being recommended to transdermally. And so we all understand and appreciate that estrogen will have favorable effects on bone health. But there's no strong data about fracture risk reduction. And so I'm never the one who's prescribing the estrogen for my patients. I definitely have a very informed discussion about it with the patients talking about how the pendulum swings. And I think if you're in the first five years post-menopause, considering estrogen is a good idea. If you want to take it for vasomultra symptoms for other symptoms that you think are bothersome to you. And if they aren't on estrogen, I do think about it as well. Maybe that I don't have to be more aggressive in terms of treating them for osteoporosis or maybe doing dexa scans as frequently. So to shift it a little bit. So if I had a young post-menopausal patient who had a dexa scan for whatever reason and comes to me with a T-square of minus 2.5 or 2.6. I'm not necessarily offering bisphosphonates for those patients, at least in the past. Because I'm like, you know, your risk of having fracture is still very low. If I start to have bisphosphonates right now, what am I going to do for you in the future when you're 18, 90 and I'll be part of living well until they're 100. And so for that, patients is like, you know, if you're going to be on an estrogen based therapy, that's great. It's not going to be the best solution, but it's just going to be delaying our need to start you on an anti-resortive therapy or an osteoanabolic therapy. And so that could be either estrogen as in hormone, estrogen replacement, or it could be an estrogen like medication. So those would be like the SIRMS, selective estrogen receptor modulators, which would have some beneficial effect on the bone, some benefit on the spine, but really very little data on hip fracture reduction and less fracture efficacy compared to the medications that we have right now. I want to come back to the SIRMS, Relaxed Pig, because we don't talk about it very much and I think it has a niche role. But let me come back to that. So it seems that estrogen therapy itself, you said, is a modest effect. And we just reviewed that New England Journal study that you mentioned. So the patients who are in that category are probably going to benefit from reclass because there is data on fracture reduction in that, right? So that makes a lot of sense. I think the one thing that I would say though is with that New England Journal of Medicine paper, I would say offering them the IV is electronic acid is the way I would approach it. I wouldn't say that they have to take it. You have to talk about your patients, think about each patient and what their preferences are. And in those younger patients, you're talking about fracture prevention 10 years down the line. So there's not this hurry into doing it as well. And I think patients sometimes feel overwhelmed when we're saying that you have to do this and they want to take their time. They want to think about it. They want to research it. And I know the next question is going to be about exercise. And so they're going to want to do the exercise, the estrogen, the non-pharmacological ways. And I think we have to respect that as well when it comes to a chronic condition and talking about future fracture risk reduction. So I think giving them the time to do other interventions is not a bad idea. And that's so different from someone who's had a recent fracture, whom you think the risk of having a fracture is very high and very high in the immediate future. So this plays into a discussion I often have with my patients now about exercise because and the way I frame it is this, that human beings all will lose muscle mass with age. They'll lose bone mass with age. And that catches up to you pretty much in the 80s, I would say the ninth decade of life, right? When you're where you look at patients who are 85 and older, what differentiates them health wise is often not cardiovascular, cancer or other issues. But really issues of frailty. And so I'm telling patients all the time, you really have to sort of gird yourself against that and plan for that period by really building up muscle mass. And so I think that, you know, and there's more data coming out now about the value of weight training. World Health Organization now specifically recommends resistance and muscle strengthening exercise twice a week. And I think that we're seeing that now. The historically for bone density specifically exercise has been or weight bearing exercise or structured sort of bone strengthening exercise has been focused on prevention, preventing bone loss. But I did happen to notice an article or two in the last couple of years that seemed to suggest that you can actually build some bone on your own with weight strengthening, with muscle strengthening exercise. Is that changed at all? I think the way that has changed. So I, a couple of things. One is for our somewhat older, more frail patients who have osteoporosis, we usually telling them to avoid high impact exercises to avoid falls, don't hurt yourself, don't over bend. And so we're being very cautious in terms of some of the exercises that they can and cannot do. And I think that has a bit changed in terms of providing more supervised, more high intensity resistance and impact training in a more supervised manner so that the patients are not hurting themselves with the idea that, you know, that more the higher intensity exercise can stimulate the bone forming cells, osteoblasts and can stimulate bone formation. And so I think that understanding has always been there. There's also some devices like vibration devices where people are looking into whether it's a belt or platforms that people stand on to cause the stimulation to stimulate bone formation from happening to happen. And so, and you will find studies and there has been studies in the past and again studies and that have been published more recently where they look at BMD improvement and you can see significant BMD improvement. But I will go back to this concept of fracture risk reduction versus BMD improvement. And I will also go back to say, there's a huge difference between some of my patients that I see that are already very active and already exercising and already doing their yoga and the pilates and they walk and they really don't want to be on medications and then they find online programs like osteostrong and they say, okay, this is the treatment I'm going to take. I'm like, it's not going to make a difference for you. You have to see the baseline patients that were entered in those studies, what their baseline activity level was. And of course, you're going to see a lot more improvement than people who never used to exercise before and now suddenly started to exercise. So the way I think about exercise is it's extremely important. It is important for their bones. It's important for fall prevention. It's important for their sarcopenia. But it doesn't necessarily replace osteoporosis treatment if someone has had very high risk of having fractures. And so that would be similar to like adequate calcium and vitamin D intake. So the way I try to explain to patients is that I'm going to care about you not breaking a bone for the rest of your life. Adequate calcium intake, adequate vitamin D intake, exercise, fall prevention is going to be lifelong. Medications are going to be episodic. Treatment is going to be episodic. But those things are kind of staple in terms of your treatment when it comes to osteoporosis. And a little bit what we have been doing a little bit more of is in our younger patients who are really healthy and they want to do more than the regular, you know, referral to physical therapy to talk about just balance and low impact exercises and is incorporating physical therapists that are more trained when it comes to osteoporosis care to do this kind of more supervised high intensity resistance training. And they seem to like that a lot. They like that we're offering that and we're not ignoring the importance of exercise because it is actually very important. But that's needed in addition to pharmacological therapy in our high risk patients. You made the point in the last podcast that stuck with me that there's not been proof that exercise reduces the risk of fracture. And you made the point earlier in this podcast that this is really all becoming about fracture. So increasing the bone mineral density with exercise may be true and, you know, valid. But I think your point is that nothing other than medications has been proven to reduce the risk of fracture. Is that fair to say? Yes, I think that is very fair to say, but that doesn't mean that they don't reduce risk of fractures, which is the opposite of it, right? So the problem with everything that I'm saying right now, okay, so in order for a study to be done to demonstrate fracture risk reduction, you're talking about thousands of women, right? And that are followed for three years, six years, ten years. So these are very expensive studies and they require a lot of time and compliance and monitoring with patients and following up with them on a regular basis. And so I think the lack of evidence for exercise or calcium or vitamin D or even the vibration plates and the belts and all of these things is because these studies need to be much bigger, much larger to be powered to see fracture risk reduction. Now, I talk about this and I think we probably should meet again in the next three to five years because as of December of 2025, the FDA has now approved bone mineral density as a surrogate marker for approval of osteoporosis medications, which is completely different from what the approval process had been. So in the past, bone mineral density was not an appropriate surrogate marker for fracture risk reduction because we know that the bone density by depth is only capturing one aspect, which is the bone density on an aerial image, so two dimensional image instead of three dimensional. And it's not capturing the architecture of the bone and a lot of things about the bone quality that are not being captured. And we also appreciated that there are certain medications like strontium that increased bone mineral density but did not decrease risk of fractures. And so there was this disconnect between bone quality and bone mineral density. But since in the osteoporosis world, the development, the drug development has been very slow and people have not been investing the time and the effort to developing drugs. Because the studies take so long to do and because they're having to do a fracture and they're so expensive and so what? Exactly. And so there's been such a huge push to now to allow BMD to be a surrogate marker. But it's interesting because this has been approved. We don't have any drug right now that's been approved through that process because this just happened recently. But it makes me think every single day of how I counsel my patients and how I talk about, I'm only going to prescribe something if it reduces fractures. And so I just, I think it's going to be a very interesting paradigm that's going to change. And so I think talking back in three to five years is going to be very helpful to see how we're thinking of things right now once we have new drugs that are approved based on bone mineral density changes and not necessarily fractures. So that was great. And I wanted to go through those three questions up front because it was relevant and topical and so forth. But now I want to dig down into the actual drugs and how to prescribe them and get some real practical guidance from you on how to manage folks to the degree that we have to do it on our own. So let's just first sort of review the tools when it comes to medications, right? So Fosamax is the signature bisphosphonate in this category. Now dose was to once weekly. By the way, Mona, what I'll do is I'll tell you what I know and then you just correct me as appropriate and we'll go from there. So it is dosed once weekly, given for a five year period. If I identify a patient that I think is appropriate, I will do a basic diagnostic workup to make sure there is no secondary cause. You highlighted that in the previous podcast of vitamin D, a PTH, magnesium, phosphorus, some of the basic things that you don't want to miss because they may require other treatments. You want to make sure patients are getting appropriate levels of vitamin D and calcium, 800 units, right? A vitamin D, 1200 of calcium. And then you think about putting them on a medication. So let's talk about Fosamax first. Now, let me just say this. I'm not doing this for the folks who have fractured and I'm not doing this for patients that have T scores that are less than 3.0. So those are the high fracture risk patients. So those are the ones I'm pretty much sending to you. But I am doing it for the patients who just sneak into the osteoporosis category. Now they're minus 1.6 at the femur and I'm saying, well, you know, you're there and let's talk about this. That's where I'm using this medication. I'm doing it for five years. I'm expecting to stabilize their bone, if not improve it, 0.2 or 0.3. And I'm thinking I'm just going to order another dexin a couple of years from that start. Is that about right? Yes, I think so. Yeah, so I just wanted to talk about one more thing just to kind of because you gave me the questions before. And it's so hard for me not to jump. But I do think that when we talk about, again, osteoporosis treatment and you can see all the guidelines right now are really talking about risk stratification and how sequence matters. And so I think that the fact that you recognize automatically that the ones who have a T score of minus 3 or minus 3.5 and the ones who had fractures. And I think that's one in all of the guidelines keep highlighting multiple compression fractures, hip fractures, spine fractures, more than one fracture, fracture while on therapy. So those are fractures is really kind of the ongoing theme that these specific category of patients where we think that they are at very high risk of fractures that we want to be thinking about starting them maybe potentially. On bone building medications. And so I think that category is very important and we will talk about it later, but I just wanted to highlight that we do think that treatment sequence does matter. And in those patients, if you're not comfortable starting bone building medications, they should be referred to us. But thinking about the run of the mill osteoporosis T score between minus 2.5 to minus 3, no history of fractures, no side effects, doing an oral bisphosphonate seems is very reasonable. The problem with the oral bisphosphonate is not only the GI side effects that can happen, but more so the compliance as well as the poor absorption of the medication. I don't know if I expect primary care doctors to necessarily do this, but at least what I do in my practice, and I do prescribe sometimes oral bisphosphonate even in my practice is I would check bone markers in those patients. So I would be checking the marker that I check is the C telepeptide, which is a marker of bone resorption or bone breakdown. And I do like to check at the baseline. And then if they come back in a year to two years, check it again and see if it's coming down by about 50% or not and see with their bone density how it improves or it stays the same improves or it's coming down. Because I think this is an opportunity that you don't want to stay like three to five years and miss this opportunity where they're not really absorbing it, they're not really taking it, and it's not really effective for them. And in those patients where I feel like the C telepeptide, the marker did not go down, that I would want to switch them to the infusion instead. That way it's guaranteed, it's going to be in their system. It's very efficacious. And I feel much more comfortable in that sense. I think the ones who are on oral, maybe you want to see them back sooner, maybe in a year or two, not longer than that. If someone's on an infusion, as you saw from that study, five years, it seems to continue to work. And so I would probably want to monitor the orals a bit more closely than the ones who are on an infusion just because of the lack of absorption and compliance issues. This is exactly why I had you on the podcast. Kind of highlight this for me is really helpful. So let's just talk about C telepeptide. I order it, it comes back to me. I get a value. I've never ordered this, so I don't know what it looks like when you come back. So if it's high, it suggests that the patient is resorbing bone, causing less bone density. And so I want to reduce that. So I want to do something that will reduce the C telepeptide. So what kind of numbers do you get when you order it just on a standard patient? So I think this is a very important point. And that's why I don't know if I'm expecting the primary care doctors to do it. But once you're comfortable doing it and you've been doing it for a while, you get a sense to these things. So the first thing to know is the limitations of this assay. So the C telepeptide, first of all, has to be done at a clock in the morning and has to be done fasting because the normative values that you have are based on non fasting at the clock in the morning. It follows a circadian rhythm. So the levels go down during the day and with food. The other thing is to realize that this assay, the values are so different based on which lab it's done. So if you try to be as consistent in terms of the lab that it's done, that would be very helpful. They give you multiple ranges and the ranges can vary quite widely between like 100 to 1000. And so the range is very different. And so this value is so different for each individual. So as an absolute value, it might not be as helpful, but it's helpful to watch it as a trend to see how this is trending. And when you say high numbers, you're not going to see a number that is like above the upper limit of normal. What you see is a high number is in the upper range or in the upper half. And when we have someone on therapy, we're usually looking for that range to be in the lowest quartile of normal, which usually is around 200 to 300. And so if someone is like not going down below 300, their bone density is coming down. It's not improving. It's still very low. Then you're like, let me switch to the infusion of zeldronic acid to bring that number down lower. So those are kind of the things that I look at. But it does require you to be comfortable with doing those results because like I said, there is a lot of variability with those assays. There is a lot of variability from one person to the next. And some people just live like 10% of the population live with low bone markers. And so those people are going to be much harder to interpret those results if you didn't have that baseline one to know that they just this is where they live. They live in the lower quartile at baseline. And so then it becomes harder to use that as a helpful marker. When did you say you would recheck it? Let's say I put a patient on FOSMAX PO. When would you check that as opposed to when you're doing a DEXA? Is a two year DEXA reasonable or do you check it a year? And how do you time the C-pelep, telepeptide before that DEXA? First things first, that means that you are including now C-pelepptide in kind of your baseline screening labs in order for this to be helpful. So I think that's something that's very important to now think about. If you are going to be doing this, you are now including C-pelepptide in your baseline evaluation. If I want to be aggressive with this patient and I really want to know how they're doing, I would do three to six months later. That's when I would do the CTX. If it's someone there, I'm like, I'm okay if they didn't.  want to be on treatment anyway, then I would just say come back in a year and do a DEXA and C-telepeptide at the same time in a year, but not before three to six months. Dr. Justin Marchegiani So the rest of the tools primary care physicians are probably not as comfortable with. And so let's talk about Zoologronic Acid or Reclast, let's talk about Denosimab or Prolia. And then I do want to get back to the anabolic agents and understand those a little bit more in depth. Even if I'm not planning to prescribe them, I do want to understand them better. So I think of Zoologronic Acid or Reclast as an option of course if somebody cannot take PO, I do think of it as a stronger agent, meaning it will be, it will improve that DEXA more than I will expect from Phosomax alone. And so if I'm a little nervous about a patient, they're on the edge, their man is 2.9, I haven't had a fracture, but I'm a little nervous about it, I might instead choose Reclast. And then I would do that once a year for 3 years with a DEXA at a year and now with your guidance, I'm probably checking a C. telopeptide as well at baseline and at 6 months or so. Dr. So that makes the point, just to reiterate the point that you made before, that with Phosomax you're really not sure of the absorption or the adherence and so that's why you're checking it there, but you know that the patients are getting the infusion yearly and so you're comfortable with that and you're doing that for 3 years. It is true that I should expect an improvement in their DEXA that is greater than what I would expect with somebody simply on Phosomax with Reclast, is that right? Yeah. I think if you kind of think about the improvements, it's not drastically different, but you would talk about like 5% versus 7% or 8%, but definitely the IV Reclast, the Zoologonic Acid, as a bisphosphonate, it's a much more potent anti-resorptive therapy separate from absorption and compliance issue and then if you add on the compliance issue, you're going to see that the IV Zoologonic Acid is much more potent than the orals and so yes, you would see more improvement in bone mineral density compared to the oral bisphosphonates and then from the studies, we know that the fracture reduction is more efficacious with IV Zoologonic Acid compared to the oral bisphosphonates. I think that as primary care doctors, you should be comfortable ordering IV Zoologonic Acids. I really do think that should be kind of under the umbrella of what primary care doctors are able to do. Denosomab and Prolii, I will talk about it. I actually don't want primary care doctors to be ordering it at all. I would actually be more comfortable with primary care doctors ordering osteoenobolic therapies versus ordering Denosomab, but I'll talk about that in a second. In terms of the IV Zoologonic Acid, the patients are terrified of taking it for multiple reasons. They feel that they're going to take an infusion and it's going to stay in their body and they have a side effect. They're going to continue to have side effects the rest of the year. I tried to reassure them. I've been doing this for over a decade. The real side effect that could happen for that IV Zoologonic Acid is really the flu-like symptoms. Flu-like symptoms occur 12 to 24 hours after the infusion. They can get also aches, low-gauge fever, feeling unwell for two to three days and staying very well hydrated drinking at least two glasses of water. I preemptively give them Tylenol, 500 milligrams, 30 minutes before the infusion, and then they can take it every six hours after the infusion for the first couple of days. That really seems to help with that flu-like symptoms. I tell them the flu-like symptoms, I promise you, it goes away. Sometimes it could be pretty miserable. You're in bed, so please don't plan anything major like no conferences, no weddings, nothing major that you're going to, in case you end up being in bed, but it goes away. It's the worst with the first infusion and gets much better with subsequent infusion. I think having that kind of counseling and preparing them is very, very helpful. They end up trusting you more and more willing to do it the second time. I try to explain that the medication continues to work because of how it resides in the bone and how it inhibits the enzymes, but the drug itself will no longer be in your blood if they were to measure the drug amount in the blood. I think that helps them a little bit to understand how the medication works for a year, but how the side effects one could linger on for a year. You want to make sure that their calcium is appropriate in the blood, they're getting ad-dict with calcium, their kidney function is good, their vitamin D levels are good. I have theoretically low calcium can happen after the iodine and zoologonic acid can develop hypercalcemia. Obviously, this is a medication approved for treatment of hypercalcemia, but it really has never happened with any of my patients where I know that their kidney function is good, their vitamin D level is good, and their calcium is good, and they're ad-dict with calcium intake. Those patients' hypercalcemia is not a problem. Most of the medications that we have for osteoporosis that work by reducing the amount of bone being removed or what we call anti-resorptive therapy, most of them will have the concern for the two side effects that patients are terrified about, which is the osteonecrosis of the jaw and the atypical femur fracture. Patients are terrified of these side effects, but you have to give it to them, you have to explain it to them, like what are the risks. When it comes to the osteonecrosis of the jaw, I tell them, it's basically your job being exposed, the jaw bone being exposed, getting effected, and that doesn't heal for over eight weeks. That's the definition of osteonecrosis of the jaw. It tends to happen after invasive dental work, like dental implants or dental extractions, and it usually happens in cancer patients who are getting the infusion once a month or every three months as part of their cancer treatment. They're actively undergoing chemo, radiation, they're on prednisone, they have diabetes, so they have other risk factors. We do have a table in our guidelines where they go over the risks of side effects from this medication compared to being hit by lightning or motor vehicle accident, some other stuff that could happen. It just really helps that you're more likely to be hit by lightning than for that to happen with an oral misphosphonate, the osteonecrosis of the jaw. Giving them those numbers and having them understand, yes, we understand this risk can happen. Yes, we are aware of it, but it's really low. I usually tell my patients before initiating treatment, like if you are going to be undergoing any invasive dental work, get it done now. I'll delay starting the misphosphonates, and then you can start misphosphonates after you're done with your dental work. If they do need invasive dental work while they're on therapy, they should do the dental work because whether they stop the misphosphonate or they don't stop the misphosphonate, the effects of the misphosphonate are still in their system. These dentists insist that patients stop it, and I say, fine, if you want to stop it, it's fine. Hold it for two months, three months, you want to hold it. It's not a problem for me. I don't know how much it's going to make a difference in terms of the healing process. They ask me for clearances, and I always say, if your dentist says you need to get it done, just get it done. There's nothing that I can do to clear you. That's the dental issues that patients are scared of. The stress fracture and the thymine is something that can happen, and that's really with prolonged use of these medications, and that's why I go over, we do courses of treatment. You're not on these medications for the rest of your life. I think IVs, allodronic acid is definitely something that as primary care doctors, you should be able to uncomfortable ordering. What do you quote for your patients going on IVs, allodronic acid reclass, what do you quote them in terms of the risk of osteoacinacrosis or the jaw? It's like one in 100,000, but that's for spontaneous with an oral misphosphonate. The risk is like 1% or even higher for cancer patients, and so the risk is like so different. Then similarly with the atypical femur fractures, it's like one in 100,000 patient years if you've been on misphosphonates less than five years, and the risk goes up by 100s folds if you've been on it over five years. That's kind of the numbers that I give my patients when I'm discussing those things. I talk about it straight on, I acknowledge it straight on, and I talk about their fears and their concerns and what the fractures are, and I make it as scary as possible as they want it. I'm not like diminishing how bad they are, but then talking about what is the actual risk of that happening. Yeah, I'm working with a medical student now who's also a dentist. He's training to be an OMFS, and I took him aside knowing we're going to do this podcast, and I said, can you tell me about osteoacrosis or the jaw? I mean, you've seen it, right? What does it look like? And he said, it's a spectrum. He says a wide spectrum. In general, he said, anytime you're doing invasive dental work, you need a bone to heal, so you need a bone to fill a hole or to grow and fill a hole, much like the skin would fill a hole of a skin wound. And he said, and that's very slow because patients have agents in their system that are keeping them from doing that. And so, he said, and so then you can get superinfection and other issues. He says, sometimes it's just a couple of weeks of antibiotics, and that's the only problem. Sometimes it requires menabular resection and reconstruction, but that's highly unusual. So it was very interesting to get his insights, a person who's seen this professionally a number of times. Yeah, I think that's a very important point to talking about the spectrum as well. It's not like yes or no. Like, it could be as simple as, you know, someone having non-healing jaw thing, and the only require is like antibiotics to switch and swallow. And I think also the other thing that has shifted as I've been doing this now for a while, in the past, I'm like, if anyone has osteoenocrosis of the jaw, I'm never going to give them bisphosphonates again. No, I give them bisphosphonates again. I talk to their oral surgeons, I talk to their dentists, and we talk about risks and benefits. And we talk about the circumstances the first time that led to them having osteoenocrosis of the jaw. And how can we maybe decrease the dosing of the bisphosphonates, do it differently so that we're not running into the same problem. But it's not an absolute contraindication if someone's had history of osteoenocrosis of the jaw. So speaking to the spectrum of this condition. I want to get to the antibiotic agents. I want to leave some time, but I do want to spend a little bit of time on prolia because there are primary care physicians around the country who prescribe prolia all the time. I've been somewhat scared of the drug. I think I do, by the way, prescribe it. And the circumstance in which I prescribed it are only patients who have come to me on it, cannot find another provider to give it. They're new for their dose. And I'm like, okay, you just got to get your dose. I have one patient who's 90 years old and I've talked with one of our endocrinology colleagues and I've just kept her on it and that's been fine. But let me just cut to the chase on prolia, denosumab. I mean, I'd see it as a more potent agent than reclasts in terms of bringing bone back. It is every six months. If you delay it more than a month after your scheduled infusion, you can get rapid bone loss. So it's scary from that perspective. I think you have to stay on top of it. And then there's this whole issue of how to come off of it because you don't want to keep people on these agents forever because of the risk of femoral fragility fractures. And that's been the issue with prolia. Now I do understand that there is a protocol now whereby you would give someone reclast before their last infusion of prolia to potentially kept them off of it. But one of your colleagues explained to me that prolia is really like not, you're not dating osteoporosis. This is a marriage. You're going to be. And oftentimes she was saying, I reserve that for my elderly patients that are probably just going to need something the rest of their lives. And I don't think they're going to live terribly much longer. And so that's what I'm using it for. So that's my spectrum. Can you correct me on any of that? I think everything you said is spot on. I would just highlight a couple of things. One thing is that delay of prolia is not only associated with rebound bone loss. It's very exaggerated, but it's also associated with multiple compression fractures. So I think that's something that is really important and something that we in our office have seen specifically with oncology patients like breast cancer patients who were started on medications that would negatively affect their bone quality or rheumatoid inhibitors and P1 radiation. And we're started on dinosomab by their oncologist given for three to five years and then told them everything looks good. You stop it. And then they come to us with multiple compression fractures in their spine. And so that's very important to keep in mind. The second thing is that with dinosomab, we only have published data regarding safety and efficacy for up to 10 years. So we don't have anything else beyond 10 years. And the other thing that we do know is that that rebound bone loss that happens and these compression fractures that happen, happen more often if prolia was started in younger patients compared to older patients and how long they've been on prolia. So the longer you are on prolia, the harder it is to get you off of prolia. And so that's why in younger patients, I don't want to do prolia because like I said, people are now living well into their 100s. And so if you're having A-50 year old or a 60 year old start on prolia, what am I going to do with them? They're 20 years down the line, 30 years down the line. We have no safety data beyond 10 years. So that's one concern that I have, one of the many concerns that I have. The second thing, and we know this, and this is very reproducible as well. You remember how I talked about risk stratification and sequence matters and sequence really matters. And especially with dinosomab. And so we know that oral bisphosphonates and the use of ibizooledronic acid might blunt the benefits of some of the bone building medications. But with dinosomab, if you were to switch someone from dinosomab to the daily injection, the bone building medication, you actually have bone loss that happens in the hip. And so really sequence matters in that sense. And so I never switch someone from dinosomab to an osteoanabolic therapy because they actually lose bone density. So someone's on dinosomab and I feel I want to escalate their osteoporosis treatment. I cannot now switch them to osteoanabolic therapy. I have to do add-on therapy, which is sometimes not covered by insurance and is very expensive. And so you're boxing people into prolia, right? So prolia is so hard to get off. And so I usually don't like to start with prolia. And the only time I actually refer to the ACP guidelines, to your guidelines, is when it comes to them stating that dinosomab is second-line therapy. I think where our organizations like the Endocrine Society or the ACE and our bone societies, they have continued to say if someone's had high risk of fractures, they have osteoporosis. All of these medications are considered first-line. And people who are at very high risk, we would really encourage you to start with osteoanabolic therapy. But I really think that prolia, although approved as a first-line therapy, should not be considered first-line therapy, especially in younger patients. Now, and yes, prolia is an excellent drug. Patients love being on it. They tolerate it very well. Their bone densities look so much nicer and it goes up and they're really, really happy with those results. But we have to think about what's going to happen in five years, 10 years. And so before I initiate anyone on prolia, I'm talking to them about what are we going to do? What's our exit plan? What is our long-term plan? And then I tell my patients, my own father is on prolia. He's 84 years old. He has CKD. He had a compression fracture. I told him, you're going to be on prolia for the rest of your life. And so that was the decision that was made on initiation of prolia. And he hadn't been on any other osteoporosis therapy before. And so I'm not saying that I don't use it and I'm not saying that I don't use prolia as a first-line, but I think for primary care purposes, if you think your patient needs to be on prolia, I think if you're not comfortable doing the osteoanabolic, you should not be comfortable doing the prolia either. Because I think you would want to do the osteoanabolic first before doing the prolia. And when you're starting the prolia, you're really boxing in those patients and reducing their ability to take other medications in the future. So let's talk about the osteoanabolic agents. And by that, we are talking about three drugs. Their trade names are Forteo, Timlosin of Entity. Their generic names, and see if I get this right, teraperotide, abaloperotide, and romasosanap. You're going to say that much better than I do. No, no, I know. It's fine. You know what? It's great. Yeah. So let's say I'm a primary care doc in the middle of rural Pennsylvania, which my brother is by the way. And I have a patient who just comes in with a compression fracture. I do a T score. I do a DEXA. She's got minus 3.2 at the spine. And I want to get her out of danger more quickly. So that's what I'm looking at with these drugs. Which of these are you looking at giving her? And how would you choose between them? Yeah. So, all right, a couple of things. First you want to rule out any other causes for a compression fracture. So sometimes doing an S-Pep and U-Pep and making sure it's not myeloma and not the pathologic fracture is also very important. And the way I try to explain osteoanabolic therapy for my patients is I say we have two major ones just to make it simple in their minds because then it becomes too confusing. I say we have a daily injection, which is given for two years. And then we have one which is given as a monthly injection. That's given for 12 months for one year. The daily injections have been around for much longer so that we have a much longer safety profile on those medications. But in someone who's had cancer or someone's had radiation to their bones or has high calcium problems or has a year of kidney stones, maybe that's not the best medication for them. Because that medication can increase calcium, can increase risk of calcium in the urine, potentially kidney stones, and is not recommended for patients who've undergone radiation to their bones or at increased risk of having bone cancer. That was based on data in rats when they were given much higher doses of these daily injections, which are the PTH analogs. They had increased risk of bone cancer versus, you know, affinity, which is the Romo azuzimab, which is given as a monthly injection for 12 months, has been out now for just over six years. So it was approved in April of 2019. And it still has a box warning regarding cardiovascular problems. So if anyone's had a heart attack or stroke in the year prior, they should not be on this medication. No one has done a head-to-head comparison, although we do think that maybe Romo is a bit stronger than the daily injections. The way I presented to patients is I tell them these are the two options, and these are the major differences in those medications. And some patients go with, I want something that's been out there for much longer, and it's safer. And it's a daily injection. If I have a side effect, I stop it. It's short acting. It comes out of my system. And then I have patients that say, there's no way I'm going to do a daily injection. I am so scared of needles. I cannot do this to myself. And they would prefer the monthly coming in every month to get the affinity. This insurance dictates which medication we can prescribe, because affinity is still pretty expensive. And the other factor, and I know we're not talking about men, but affinity is not approved for men. And so versus the daily injections are approved in men, versus affinity is not approved in men. And so that also might be a deciding factor, depending on who the patient is. But I do offer both. For the most part, if there's no contraindication either way, I really leave it up to the patients, kind of what their preferences are in terms of which one to do. And it's always very, very important to explain to patients after osteoanabolic therapy, whether it's the monthly injection for a year or daily injection for two years, they have to follow it with an anti-resortive therapy to lock in those gains. I would usually do IV Zellatronic Acid, reclass, or someone has CKD, or I think they're going to be on for the rest of their life. They're going to be on dinosimum. Just to summarize that, when we're talking about the peritides that are daily injections, parietide and abaloparitide, so for teointimulus. Now we're all kind of living in the GLPH now, right? And our patients are getting more comfortable giving themselves weekly injections. But I imagine it's a little harder cell on a daily injection, especially for a condition where there's a lot of aesthetic gains with the weight loss that people perceive. I want to lose weight. I want to feel better. But with this, you're just sort of preventing the next fracture. It's a little bit of a different cell, right? It's harder. Yeah. Yeah. I'm just wondering with that, how big a needle is it? Where do you inject all these things? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Absolutely. So I think, so this is so funny because I think I shame people now with telling them it's exactly the same needle that you do with the GLP ones, right? And so it's a very small needle. And what I have found to be very helpful is I have pens and needles in my room all the time. I show them the pen. I show them how small the needle is. Most of them cannot even see the needle. And they're like, oh, it's that easy. Because it's a pen that's prefilled with a medication that you just have to dial up the dose. It's the same BD needles that like type one diabetics. Before I used to say like type one diabetics, those kids that have type one diabetes do these injections five to seven times a day. So that was my first shaming strategy. And now with the GLP ones being approved, there's like the whole world is on GLP ones and they're taking these injections. I'm sure you're going to be able to take this. So those are some of my strategies, not shaming strategies. So some of my strategies to convince patients to do those daily injections. And the other thing that I do tell patients is I'm here to make your quality of life better. I want to strengthen your bone to decrease your risk of having fractures. And if you feel that this is intolerable, you're having intolerable side effects, whether it's the bony pain or the injection pain, or this is really not compatible with what you would like, you can stop it. That's fine. It's not a problem. But let's try and see. And so I think knowing that this medication is extremely short acting, knowing that they if they really don't like it, they can stop it. And having pharmacy support is actually very helpful to get patients on board and taking the drug. And I've had many patients say, we're so sorry, we gave you so much pushback. This was so easy. But yeah, those are some of the strategies I use. The point you made earlier is even if they stopped it earlier, you'd want to lock in whatever gains they have with a reclass infusion, right? So that sounds easy. It sounds like I could do that, right? If I'm prescribing GLPs, I could probably prescribe these drugs as well. And then let's just talk about a vanity. You said is a monthly injection. Is it given at home or given in the office? So the affinity is an injection under the skin. The dose of the drug cannot be given as one injection. So it's given us two injections at the same time. It's subcutaneous. It has to be administered by a nurse. So patients can either go to the infusion center, some of them do it in our office, but they cannot self-administer it themselves. And it's given once a month for 12 months. Ramos-Zozumav is one of the most interesting agents we have because this is the first time we have an FDA approved drug that works as a dual agent. So in the first three to six months, it's stimulating bone formation. And then afterwards, it's working as an anti-resorptive agent. So it's actually doing both. So it's both stimulating bone formation and reducing the amount of bone being removed. We think of it as being the most efficacious drug because in 12 months only, the bone marrow density in the spine improved by 12%. There are 70% risk of fractures in the spine in 12 months only. So these are similar numbers to what we see with a daily injection, but over two years instead of 12 months. The original study that was done to compare this drug to placebo did not see any cardiovascular risk factors. The drug company wanted to do, compare it to Phosomax. And so it was in the study that they did where they had 4,000 women slightly older than the original study. And they randomized them to half of them getting affinity and half of them getting Phosomax. And it was in that study that there was an imbalance with the heart attacks and strokes that happened to the patients who received the affinity compared to Phosomax, which was 1.1%. And the Phosomax group versus 2% in the affinity group. That's the data that we have regarding affinity and cardiovascular problems. And so that's how they've earned the boxed warning about do not give it to someone who's had a heart attack or stroke in the year prior. That's the only guidance we have. So someone's had open heart surgery five years ago, you could still give it. So it's only people who are having active cardiovascular problems. Some patients who are older are scared to do that. Understandably, they say, I don't want to have a stroke. I try to kind of explain all of these things to them as we're prescribing affinity. I personally would be more scared of someone who has a lot of cardiovascular problems or maybe had PE before, DVT, not potentially doing it, even though it's not technically contraindicated. It's not approved in men. And then the other thing is because it has that quality of bone resorption, it's an anti-resorptive agent that decreases the amount of bone being removed. The osteoenocrosis of the jaw and the atypical femur fractures have been reported with this medication as well. So we think it's going to be less so than with like dinosimab, which is prolia, or zelodronic acids, which is reclass. It does happen with those agents as well. But you don't see that with the peritides. I'll just, you don't see that with them. So we don't see that with teraperitides or abaloperitides. And teraperitide now they have biosimilars and generics. So it's not only, for say, with a brand name. Do you check a DEXA in a year? Is that what you would do when you have somebody on this? I guess C-peptide is not as much of an issue because you know that you're putting somebody on an agent that they're taking and prescribing and so forth. Yeah. Bone markers in osteoenobolic therapy is interesting because I have a lot of colleagues that do check bone formation markers. I haven't found them to be as helpful because to me, if it's going to change my management, I will do it. But if it's not going to change my management, I don't do it. And so I haven't figured out the way how they would change my management. So I have not been checking bone formation markers when someone's on osteoenobolic therapy. Well, this is something that's changed from this discussion for me because I would have not thought to check C-peptide in patients on Fosamax because I thought, well, that's what endocrinologists do. But in reality, endocrinologists only check it in patients who are on Fosamax because you want to make sure that they're getting the medication, right? Yeah. I mean, that's so provider dependent, I have to say, right? So this is definitely provider dependent. All the guidelines say consider checking bone markers, but it's not like you have to check bone markers. And so I think it is definitely provider dependent. But in my thought process, is it going to affect my management? Yes or no? And if it is, I will do it. And so I kind of try to provide the rationale as to why I would do those things because it would affect my management when it comes to oral dysphosphonates. Mona, this has been a great discussion. We're hitting the end of the hour here. I do want to ask you, and I didn't give you this heads up on this, but is there anything that you think primary care physicians need to know that you see in your practice? You mentioned some of the dangers about the NasaMab and some of the things that you see, but is there anything else we're sort of doing wrong that you would like us to stop doing or maybe start doing? I think you guys do a fantastic job. Honestly, as primary care doctors, I don't know how you're able to manage all these health issues. So I don't know if I would ever say that you guys are ever doing anything wrong. I'm always amazed by all the things that you are able to do. The one thing that, and yeah, the NasaMab is definitely something that I would say, please refer to us before you start NasaMab. The second one I think is the risk of fractures and defining osteoporosis if someone's practice is high. I think that would be very helpful in something that I am working with as well with, see if radiology or the DEXA reports can be worked on so that you're able to get these drugs approved because I think sometimes what happens if someone has osteopenia and not osteoporosis, you might have a hard time getting IVs, alderic acid approved or getting a repeat DEXA approved. And so as per our ACE guidelines, you can define patients as having osteoporosis based on high risk of fractures. And so I think that one is important to, for practical reasons, it's important for you guys to know because I think it will help you with kind of insurance approvals and monitoring of your patients when you're reframing this and saying, oh, they do have osteoporosis. Yeah. And historically, I think some of us are a little less comfortable defining osteoporosis by frack scores. It's just easier to look at a number and say, oh, you're there or you're not there. But to the point you made earlier in the podcast, this is all about fracture reduction and that's what the frack store is telling you, right? And there's also this data that suggests patients who are osteopenic who get just one dose of reclast do better that maybe somebody who's in that sort of borderline and has a frack score that suggests their increased risk or their osteoporotic could just do that for now and then go from there. So I don't know in terms of like reminders. So the fracks you put in the calculator and gives you two numbers and it tells you what is the 10 year risk of having a hip fracture? And if that's more than the 3% that's high and major osteoporotic fracture, if it's 20% or more, that's high. So 20% and 3%. Yeah. And I'm always trying to remind myself of that when I look at my my Dexosketch. I know.  I'm looking for threes and twenties, you know, thresholds there. It's hard, it's hard, it's a lot for you guys, it's just really hard for you guys to do all of these things. And so hopefully we can help out more in creating more pathways and more reminders and better access as well. Well, Mona, this has been great. And so if I ever do find myself plopped down in the middle of rural Alaska and I have to manage osteoporosis on my own, I actually feel much more qualified than I did an hour ago. So this has been a great discussion. Absolutely, thank you so much for having me. This is always so much fun. And yeah, I'm always around if you need any help. Thank you. With that, I want to thank Mona for joining us formally and then also thank the audience for joining us and please come again next time.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.572667Z ===
