Hello, class of 2025, family and friends. I feel like I came into medical school convinced that I did not want a partner in medicine. And then I met David and now I can't imagine um being with anyone else. I don't think I could have done nearly half of the things that I ended up doing in medical school without my relationship with Danny. I have witnessed firsthand your compassion, your dedication, and the profound empathy that will define you as physicians. My name is Sesh Shambul. I'm hoping to match into urology here at Penn. I want to encourage all of you as you go through the next step in your training to think outside the box. And I think you're going to find all sorts of opportunities that just haven't been available to us. My name is Mauritzio Porcamea. I would love to be matching at CHOP, the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia. With you at the helm, I feel very much assured that it is going to be a fantastic uh next generation of physicians. Welcome and congratulations on your match. I was born and raised in Mosmbique and I moved here to the US when I was 18 years old. Recognizing the disparity that there was between um the healthcare we had at home versus abroad was something that really sparked my interest in medicine and it stayed with me until now. I was really excited to to come here because Penn has so many opportunities across the areas that I'm interested in. That was really what drew me here to Penn and I've actually been able to take advantage of all of those opportunities. I really look up to the surgeons that are here at Penn and the careers that they've built. Um, and so I think that's part of what I envision for myself. I also really enjoy research and I've had the opportunity to do research with a couple of surgeons. I'm incredibly grateful for my time here at Pent. Regardless of which rotation I was in, I enjoyed interacting with children so much more. And then when I did my pediatric clerkship, I was able to see parts of pediatric surgery. I was able to see pediatric emergency medicine. Not many schools have that customizability for your clerkships. That's when I realized this is it. This is where I want to practice for the rest of my life. In 10 years, I I'd want to still be here and start working on global health models where I could actually impact healthcare back home. You are the architects of change and the stewards of innovation and solutions. Welcome to your future. 5 4 3 2 5 so happy and I love her so much. It wouldn't be possible without her. We're staying open. Go. So, I just matched. I matched in my first choice. I'm staying here at Penn. I'm saying I'm so excited to start. I'm so excited to stay here. I love my friends. I love the city. I can't wait to get started.