- At Penn Medicine for Women, we look at healthcare from a woman's perspective. Our team knows that giving birth is a powerful experience in a woman's life, and we are here to support them and to provide them with the best care available. Emilie: I was in labor for a total of eight hours, and that was the best feeling, to hear him, and then have him brought over to me and laid on my chest was like [indistinct]. Yeah, it was great. - Penn Medicine for Women is the busiest provider of obstetrical services in this city. When you come to deliver at one of our hospitals, there are two to three obstetricians and a midwife available to monitor you during your labor and to be there for you during delivery; 24/7 our obstetricians are in-house, ready to be there to support you through labor and delivery. - I started my prenatal care right with Penn Healthcare for Women because I knew you know, my cystic fibrosis doctor was associated with Penn and I wanted everything to kind of, everybody to be on the same page. - We have teams of care coordinators, obstetricians, midwives, nurse practitioners, nutritionists, social workers, psychologists, all working together to provide you with the best prenatal care in the region. One of our goals is to empower women to take charge of their health, to educate women about how to stay healthy and then to help them make informed decisions about their healthcare. - I am in my body, and I know what's happening and I can feel every day every breath is getting harder and harder to keep going. So, by emergency C-section on January 7, at 26 weeks, they delivered my son, Paul Anthony, who was born at 1 lb 12 oz and my daughter Sarah Dorothy, who was born at 1 lb 9 oz. They were really, really small, but they were totally perfect. - I want women to come here and be confident, have confidence in their physicians, feel that their questions have been answered, we've listened to them, we've heard them, and that we're there for them. - I look back on the maternal-fetal medicine doctors and they really cared for me and I got that. - If we have a kid again, I would for sure use Pennsylvania Hospital. The Midwifery Department really made this extremely emotional, intense experience the best possible experience that I could have had.