had a very very empathic father. He was always helping people and I knew I had a life in of service and as an Irish Catholic I truly I thought of the priesthood then I really felt called to have a family. So the next best thing is is medicine. I'm John D. Kelly IV director of shoulder sports orthopedic surgeon here at Pen Medicine. My passion is shoulder surgery, shoulder preservation. I used to do replacements and things of that nature. But now I my passion is really focused on preserving shoulder function with rotator cuff repairs instability. I still do a lot of knee surgery as well and knee preservation surgery. I am principally an arthoscopic surgeon. Anything that can be arthoscoped. have great investment and really interested in ways we can fix massive rotator cuff tears and prevent people from needing replacements and also ways of creatively stabilizing shoulders that would normally need open surgery. The last 5 years I've seen this incredible uptick in developments in shoulder stability surgery so that even the most unstable shoulders now we can address with rare exception with the arthoscope. The healing time hasn't been shown to be much different, but it's certainly much less painful. And I do think long-term because you're preserving so much more anatomy, not violating tissue planes, I do think patients do fare better long term. I would like my patients to know that I'm in their corner and I have one singular purpose in mind is their well-being. Sometimes the conservative approach is surgery. Young athlete who tears their ACL before they tear their menisci and develop premature arthritis, conservative approach is fixing that ACL in timely fashion. know I believe uh the old exom you can't serve two masters and you know when when I go home and put my head on the pillow I like to think that I did what was best for each patient. The culture here at Penn is is incredible. We have some of the greatest minds and it's like going from the JV to the varsity. I I'm I'm a much better physician by the wonderful colleagues. You know having played football I was only as good as the person I went against in practice. I got some wonderful colleagues that just have increased my game just talking and learning and watching some of our joint surgeons where they work and what I see they do and it's just increased my whole breath of understanding orthopedics.