My first exposure to plastic surgery was when I was about seven. I was in like a small boating accident and I just needed some stitches on my chin. But the uh boat owner happened to be a plastic surgeon, family friend. He sort of scooped me up on a Sunday, took me to his office and gave me stitches. It wasn't a really big injury, but I thought it was exciting how he's just took care of the problem from start to finish. I'm Dr. Michael Lonnie, a plastic and reconstructive surgeon with Lancaster General Health. Here at Pen Medicine, I see a lot of different types of patients, but most of my patients are women who are undergoing reconstructive surgery after cancer treatment. In addition to that, I see patients who have experienced trauma, cancer, or some other condition that requires intricate reconstruction. I want my patients to know that I look at them as a partner in their care. I'm here to help guide you towards your goal and whatever is most important to you, working together. so that we can accomplish that. When they come to see me, for instance, for breast reconstruction, I'll go through all the options that they have available to them and then we talk about which options may be better or not depending on their specific situation. But ultimately, the decision on what they want to do is up to them. And I just help make sure they have all the information to make the best decision for themselves. Often times, I'll have patients bring their family into the room so that they can be part of the conversation. And in that way, everybody's on the same page. They have support and the family is also, I'd say, integral in helping the patient recover after surgery. I think what sets Pen Medicine apart is the incredible collaboration across surgical specialties. The people. We have world-class surgeons, oncologists, radiologists, all working together. There's a culture of constant innovation, learning, and most importantly, compassionate patient centered care. Penn is definitely a leader. I think we do more autotogus breast reconstruction than anyone in the country. We have the best surgeons and are always working to improve our outcomes. The best part of my job is seeing a patient feel whole again. Watching someone regain their confidence after what may have been the most difficult chapter in their life is incredibly rewarding. It's a real privilege to be part of that process.