There's a lot of satisfaction when you get to operate on people. I mean, that's something that very few people get to do. And to help them, it's a it's a real blessing. Hello, my name is Joe Votock. I'm a general surgeon here at Pen Medicine. At this point in my career, I I do general surgery. I do a lot of the more common surgeries, coliccystectomy, gallbladder surgery, hernia surgery, sometimes colon surgery. One of my focuses is robotic surgery using the Da Vinci robot. I I I do most of my hernas and now gallbladders robotically. Starting out as an open surgeon and then training with laparoscopy. I think the robot makes me a better laparoscopic surgeon and I think robotic has made me a better open surgeon as well. There are times however when you need to do an open surgery. You know not every hernia can be repaired laparoscopically. Not every gallbladder can be done laparoscopically or robotically. So there are times when you have to be able to convert to an open procedure, which I think is something that I'm grateful for that I have experience in all of those types of techniques and I'm comfortable with them all. Our relationship, if everything goes well, doesn't last long, they see me preop, they see me the day of surgery, and they see me posttop. And as many of them say, not that I don't like you, but I don't want to see you again. you kind of thing. What I do like is when I see somebody in the office and they say, "You did my dad's hernia 10 years ago or my friend said, uh, you did their surgery, so that's why I'm here." So maybe my relationship does last longer than I think uh, and hopefully they remember me. Our surgical department of pen medicine, its main strength is all of the people from the ground up. Everyone that the patient will encounter through their surgical experience is truly a professional and the patients see that and I knew since I moved here in 2000 I knew I wanted to work at LGH. I think the facility is excellent. I think the staff in LGH is excellent. I think the physicians there are excellent. So I think we provide much more highly technical and specialized and patient safety directed care. I want patients to know that they're a whole person to me. They're not a procedure. They're not one of the things I have to get done today. They really matter to me. I love being in the O. I love the camaraderie in the O. I love the relationships that I have with the with the staff in the O, but I also love being in the office, and I love seeing patients post-operatively. If they're cured or healed and they're happy, that's the best part of my job.