Being a doctor allows me to help people, it allows me to talk to people and get to know them, to figure out different ways to help them, and allows me to use science and research, and different techniques to find new ways to help them. My name is Tim Markman. I'm a cardiac electrophysiologist at Penn Medicine. Cardiac electrophysiology is a part of cardiology, so we focus, specifically, on the electrical system in the heart, and that can be abnormal heart rhythms, heart rhythms that are too fast or too slow, it can be anything that has to do with the electricity of the heart, and we treat people with problems of the electrical system of the heart, through procedures called ablation procedures or implanting devices called pacemakers or defibrillators. Sometimes, people come to us with symptoms like palpitations or feeling that their heart's racing, or they come to us with episodes of passing out, which we call syncope. It's a wide range of things. It's never wrong to see a doctor if you're worried about something going on with your heart. Oftentimes, that starts with internal medicine doctors or primary care doctors, but if people have cardiologists and they have any concern about their heart they should bring it up. I think one of the main reasons why people should be excited to come to Penn is that we're moving the field forward all the time and doing a lot of research, and that's especially true in our division, cardiac electrophysiology. The research that I am involved in directly is pretty broad in its scope and treating a lot of different cardiovascular conditions, a lot of cardiac arrhythmias. The thing that I love most about my job is having the ability to connect to patients, learning rather than just the diagnosis that they have, what it is about that that's really bothering them, whether it's the anxiety or fear associated with it, whether it's a certain set of symptoms, whether it's the fact that they're put on new medications that are causing side effects, and working with them to figure out what's the best approach to get them back to where they want to be.