One of the things that I realized is that in pulmonary medicine, I was able to find all of the things that I loved in science, the physics of the air flowing in through the airways, filling up the air sacs, and then the chemistry of the oxygen just going across into the blood and then the biology of the mitochondria taking up the oxygen and churning it out into energy and that's what we do every day. My name is Namrata Patel and I'm the Clinical Director of the Interstitial Lung Disease Program at the University of Pennsylvania. One of the things that I do is I see patients with interstitial lung diseases. Interstitial lung diseases are diseases of the air sacs and my job is to really be the sleuth to try to figure out what's affecting each person's air sacs and it can be anything from things that are their breathing in from the environment, or autoimmune processes or even things that are from biologic or genetic predispositions. Looking through and figuring out what it is that's affecting each individual really helps me decide how to treat each individual with the personalized medicine that they deserve to help them feel better, improve their lung disease, and really prevent the progression that can occur in some patients. I also see patients for consideration for lung transplantation. It's something that requires a lot of careful thought and consideration, and so what I try to do on the first visit when I see those patients is really to try to understand what's going on with their disease, what their prognosis is gonna be and try to understand the person and their families to see what's right for them and help them decide what's right for them. When a patient comes sees me, I think the first thing they'll need to understand is that I'm going to start by talking to them about who they are and who they were before this lung disease started and one of the things that helps me understand what's going on with their disease is to understand their symptoms really well. And then after that, I'll look at the studies, their CAT scans, their exam, and then try to think about what all the potential treatment options are. The best part of my job is my clinic practice. I get to figure out what's going on with patients, offer treatments that can help them feel better and do better. It's that feeling that you're able to help somebody live a better life. That's quite a privilege.