I wanted a role as a physician where I could take care of somebody for their whole life. And being an OB/GYN, you get to take care of them throughout their reproductive years, throughout their permenopausal years, and then through menopause. And I think that really appealed to me where I really do get to develop a close relationship with my patients. My name is Pelvy Nyer. I'm an obstatrician and gynecologist here at Pen Medicine Princeton. I am an OB/GYN generalist. So I take care of women's healthc care issues related to obstetrics and gynecology. So I'll take care of patients throughout their whole entire pregnancy including delivery care and postpartum care which I think postpartum care is not emphasized enough but it should be because postpartum period is very difficult for a lot of women. I never look at it as just treating a symptom. I approach every visit with a patient as treating the entire person. I really want to get to know what their day-to-day is like and how their lifestyle or other factors could be contributing to their primary complaint. Shared decision-m is extremely important in taking care of a patient. Medicine should not be a doctor simply prescribing a certain medication for treatment or telling a patient that they need surgery. It has to be a plan of care that suits the patients wishes as well as the physician. So there are always medical recommendations, but they have to line up with the patients goals and desires. I think there's snapshots from my day that keep me going, and that's the best part of my job. though. Whether it be delivering a baby and bringing a new life into the world or helping a patient with their menopausal symptoms and seeing relief in their face after you've effectively like successfully helped them, it's extremely gratifying to hear from a patient after you've taken care of them before. Even if it's been a long time, if they remember you and they remember something about you and taking care of them, I think that speaks volumes to why we do this job and why you went into medicine in the first place.