My friends used to make fun of me if one of us fell at the playground and someone would fall and hurt themselves. I always was the one to kind of run up and sort of be a first responder. So, I kind of always had that sort of innate desire and kind of interest in taking care of people and kind of if someone got injured, what the problem was and trying to find a way to fix it. Hi, I'm Summer Teaelli, obstitrician and gynecologist at Pen Medicine Princeton. So, the thing about OBGYn is that it sort of is a mix of a lot of specialties. that you get some primary care with sort of the outpatient routine visits. There's surgical procedures, so you get sort of the hands-on sort of immediate resolution type of solutions to problems. I think that's kind of the beauty of my job and why I think is pretty amazing to see cuz even for patients, sometimes I'll see patients as college students and then as they get married and then as they potentially get pregnant or potentially even having difficulty getting pregnant and sometimes seeing them through some of those hard things and then the more positive things of them being able to get pregnant and then their moms as patients. um kind of going through the menopause transition and and the care after. I think that we have a good diversity of providers. We have a large department and I think the one kind of unique and sort of beautiful thing about OBGYn is unlike a lot of other specialties partners and providers in the same group all really work together even with the care of one patient. It's not like one of us follows a patient through their whole pregnancy. They usually see multiple providers. There could be primary OB that they have in the office might not be the person who delivers them. They'll see different people postpartum. So it's very collegial. You have to be able to work well together and I think we do and it makes it sort of a strong foundation for these women to kind of trust their care in. I'm very chatty. Um so I I think the first time I usually try to really get to know their background. So definitely from a medical perspective, so actual their actual medical history, but also you know socially and just where you know if they're working, if they're not, you know, what their family dynamics are and kind of their sort of goals in terms of mostly focusing more with reproductive health. But in general, I try to get more of a big picture of them as people. Even just a routine gyn visit for most women, it's a very intimate, vulnerable examination discussion. And there's a lot of sensitive topics that come about this that most people don't even feel comfortable talking to their friends about or even family. So I think having that comfort level is probably one of the most important things as a OB/GYN.