I'm the first physician in my family, in a family full of academics in political science and mathematics and chemistry. But the common theme has always been that they were able to use their knowledge to kind of understand the world a bit better. And that's sort of how I felt about medicine and more specifically, neurology. It sort of helped me understand things around me a little bit better. My name is Rohini Samudralwar, I'm a neurologist at Penn Medicine. The majority of patients I see have multiple sclerosis, but I also see patients with more rare conditions of the immune system that affect the brain and spinal cord. So these can be things like neurosarcoidosis, granulomatous disease, sometimes even conditions that are rheumatological, so affect the joints or the skin, but actually, the inflammation crosses over into the brain and spine. These are not exactly like multiple sclerosis, but many times have overlapping treatments and can look very similar. These are relationships that you build over time. The diagnosis is usually made when individuals are kind of at the prime of their life, 20s, 30s. The ramifications of that diagnosis, what the treatment options are going to be, are completely focused on a patient-centered approach. So we have to sort of work with our patients to see what's going to be best for their lifestyle because that decision is not just based off of what the patient wants, but what's going to affect their family, their likelihood of having children, or building their own families down the line. What I would want patients to know is that this is a team-based approach when we are thinking about the treatment and management of a very scary sounding disease. This disease affects people right when they're making these huge life decisions, knowing that they can continue to grow their family and continue to do the things they want and continue to live a very normal life otherwise is the best part of this job. Even less than 10 years ago, that wasn't always the case. And even way before that, women would be told that you can't get pregnant, and you shouldn't have children if you have this disease, which is really devastating to hear. And I'm just so happy to be able to work in a time where I don't have to say that, and that can empower these women to be able to do what they want to do despite such a heavy diagnosis.