I feel like I'm the luckiest person in the world that I have a job that what I get to do is is make life better. Life draws us in different directions. We have different responsibilities. But in this unique space [music] every day, I get to come in and and and try and make a life better. And I get to do that many times a day and thousands of times a year. About half of my time is dealing with the ravages of arthritis and degeneration. So disc herniation, spinal column disorders. And about half of my time is taking care of patients with cancers that have affected the spine, those that have started there and those have that have spread to there. So often the patients that are seeing me are having symptoms that originate in the spine [music] that affect their arms or legs. Patients will have numbness and tingling going down their arm that will be debilitating. It keeps them awake at night. This is typically the most troublesome symptom. They can't sleep because the pain is so disabling. This could be something as small as as a 1 millm disc herniation pressing directly on [music] a nerve going to the thumb and index finger. This is something we can treat quite effectively. Most patients won't need surgery, but about 15% will and that gives them great benefit. The other subset of patients that I see are patients with cancers of the spine and spinal column or adjacent to the spine. These patients we treat in a multi-disiplinary model. I work with the radiation oncologists, their oncologists um and the radiologist to give the best diagnosis and develop the best treatment plan. Every patient interaction, we have to recognize there's there's different needs. There's different goals. In the outset of each patient visit, I try to get an understanding of of what troubles the patient the most. It's not what's on the MRI. It's not what's in the report. It's what affects your quality of life. And I try to narrow down sources of symptoms that are inhibiting that and then we talk about what are our options. And so I often will say in an appointment with a patient, you know, there's this broad spectrum of of what we can do. But here at the end of this appointment, we have to narrow down to what we should do. And it's different for different patients. For for my 92year-olds, it's a different thing than my 30-year-old. It's a different expectation for what they want to be able to do and what life should look like. So finding the right path for the individual patient.