I wanted to be a doctor from a very young age because of role models in my extended family in the community and I have never regretted it. Hi, I'm Anua Dorcrest and I'm the director of the pen polycystic ovary syndrome center at Penn Medicine. The main focus of my clinical work at Penn Medicine is I direct the Penn Polycystic ovary syndrome center or PCOS center. And this is a multi-disciplinary program that we have set up a unique model of care delivery because it helps patients from adolescence through their adult life and post menopause to manage PCOS. PCOS is the most common endocrine disorder amongst reproductive age women. So one in 10 women worldwide have PCOS. But the awareness hadn't been there when we first started. And we found that patients were receiving fragmented care. They went to an OB/GYN, they went to an internist, they went to a family medicine doctor, sometimes an endocrinologist, but nobody helped them take care of the entire syndrome in a comprehensive way. We are able to really help the patient with their diagnosis, experience, management of the syndrome. It could be fertility care. It could be their cardioabolic risk. There's a lot of mental health associated with it. And as part of that program, we participate in a number of clinical trials. I direct a research program that focuses on cardiovascular risk as well as the mental health burden. And so we give our patients the opportunity to take part in these clinical trials and also brings sort of the the evidence-based research to them early on. Pen medicine itself as an entity I think is strong and unique because it brings together people who are passionate not only about patient care but getting answers for the unknown. So there's a lot of research that's going on. Our department is unique because it brings together physicians and other providers who are truly dedicated to taking care of their patients. We'll go above and beyond to try and identify answers as well as resources. The best part of my job is getting to know the patients over time. It's not a one-time. It's to watch them grow, watch them move through life and us being part of that journey in different ways because this syndrome hits upon so many aspects of life. It hits upon the adolescent years and then we are part of that journey when they're desiring a family and we're part of that journey as they get older and they're managing their health. The best part is to be able to get to know our patients as an individual.