I primarily do total hips and total knees. I take call in the emergency room. So I'll see certain amount of fracture work and then I I do shoulder arthoroscopy pretty frequently and knee arthoscopy. I'm Christopher Lions, orthopedic surgeon at Penn Medicine. If you're in the emergency room and you have an open fracture or you have a bad fracture, we're going to go to the O and take care of that in a timely fashion cuz there's not really an alternative. If you show up in my office and you have first time in with knee pain, well, we're going to get some x-rays. We're going to try some conservative treatment. And often times you can avoid or delay surgery with that. Sometimes, you know, they call it sports medicine, but it's not only about sports, right? It's about I mean, if you want to play soccer and I can get you back to playing soccer, that's my job. If you're 60 and you just want to be able to walk your dog and I can get that done, that's my job. It's performance. Get rid of the pain and maintain a performance. And I think that has other kind of more wide-ranging benefits to the patient because if the patients they have a bad hip or bad knee and they can't move then they become sedentary and they're not getting good cardiovascular exercise they're hard to maintain their weight. If we can kind of fix like a problem we can have a positive impact on those issues. You know, I think that the main advancements for just specifically for total knee would be that we're able to do the surgery much more rapidly with smaller incisions. The materials that we use are more durable so that you don't, I think, have to worry so much about wear and tear on the device 10 or 15 years down the line. And a lot of it is just knowing how to rehabilitate the patients more aggressively. And I was doing total knees in 1990. So 1990 we thought we were doing you know really great if we could move the patient and say 3 or 5 days out of the hospital and now I do if the patient wants I do my total knees is just straight out patient you know it's a big improvement in understanding how to keep them comfortable and how to rehab. I think the best part of my job is taking care of patients when they need a specific surgical procedure and we get a nice outcome from it. That's the best part of my job.