So, OBGYn specifically, I was exposed to that in high school um with gynecologic surgery and laparoscopic surgery is what I was exposed to. So, that was my first entry into the field. And then as I learned more about it in college, I realized that I really was passionate about helping women, advocating for women, being able to develop those relationships over multiple years. Hi, my name is Alicia Sangal. I'm an obstitrician gynecologist here at Princeton Pen Medicine. We see all ages. One of my oldest patients is in her mid '9s. My youngest patients are in their teenage years. So, we see a wide range of patients, if they're having problems, if they're not having problems, if it's just for their checkup. We see everybody. We do comprehensive women's healthcare, so both gynecologic care and obstetrical care. We take care of moms from the first time they're pregnant until all the way up until baby's born and then also postpartum. We also help with preconception, so when moms are thinking about trying to become pregnant. Comprehensive prenatal care starts from the time of conception all the way until postpartum and beyond. So in comprehensive prenatal care that includes multiple ultrasounds, multiple types of blood work, and multiple visits with your physician. On average, a pregnant patient will have about 14 visits with their physician over the course of about 9 months. Some patients need more care depending on their high-risisk conditions. Some patients need more ultrasounds. We also work very closely with our maternal fetal medicine colleagues. We take care of low-risisk pregnancies as well as high-risisk pregnancies. and we have all the resources to care for everybody. On the gynecologic side for women who aren't pregnant or who are, you know, out of the pregnancy window, they're older, menopausal, we do all of that care as well. I do a lot of gyn surgeries. So, if a woman's having a problem uh with any of her female reproductive organs, I can do surgeries on those. And we do birth control counseling, family planning, contraception. So when a patient first comes to me, I like to ask them about their comprehensive medical surgical history because that gives me a better understanding of the medical problems they've had, surgeries they've had, medications they're taking. Every patient is unique. So really listening to the patient and having a tailored treatment plan for their specific problem. We have our guidelines, we have our recommendations, but having a conversation and having patient centered care is something important to me so that the patients can be very involved in their care. make a treatment plan that sounds good to them, that would work for them, because not all treatment plans work for every single patient. Pen medicine is a powerhouse of resources, which is very helpful for my patients. Health is very nuanced and specific patients need specific things and Pen Medicine has all of those resources. Whether it's here in Princeton, whether it's in Center City, Philadelphia, we have the ability to get our patients the care that they need in a timely fashion. The best part of my job is the patients. I love my patients. I love talking to them. I love building the relationships with them. I love the babies as well. The babies I I get to deliver. I get to see them in the office. I get updates on them from my patients. But the patients are the best part of my job.