I wanted to become a doctor because of the ability to help patients get better, recover from any injuries or diseases that they have as well as the ability to continue scientific research and improve knowledge and medical care. My name is Ineslin and I am a hand surgeon and plastic surgeon here at Penn Medicine. A large part of my practice is uh trauma care being affiliated with the level one trauma center at Penn Presbyterian. So I see a lot of patients after falls sustaining fractures, lacerations resulting in tendon injuries as well as taking care of patients with complex injuries requiring multiple stages of operation. We get lots of patients transferred from other hospitals who need a higher level of care and I enjoy taking care of those patients and seeing them through. I really see patient care as a shared process with the patient that we are working together to try to help them figure out what's wrong, help them get better. And my job is to provide my expertise and experience to give them the options and talk about pros and cons and help them decide what is best for them. And each patient coming with a similar condition may end up having different treatment plans because of those preferences. and I enjoy talking to them and working with them to get to that decision. I think that there are some really interesting things going on with nerve work in the upper extremity. Some of it is related to ampute care and trying to help with pain and manage the nerves and that. And then some of the other things that I think that we have some potential to grow at Penn is spasticity work in terms of helping patients with tight nerves and muscles improve their function. I think what differentiates Pen Medicine in hand surgery and plastic surgery are the surgeons here. They're a very compassionate group of surgeons who are looking to make patients better. I think that we have a nice blend of surgeons from different training backgrounds and orthopedics and plastic surgery and we work very well together and a collaborative nature through educational forums as well as clinical cases. The best part of my job is interacting with patients and helping them get better, but also being in an institution where I am involved in training residents and fellows and hopefully making the future generation of physicians um a strong workforce.