I think I wanted to become a doctor because it seemed like something that would be intellectually stimulating and personally and professionally gratifying while providing the opportunity to help people. I'm Dr. Benjamin Kyle Potter, an orthopedic surgeon and the chair of the department of orthopedic surgery here at Pen Medicine. So, I have two main clinical interests. One is in the care of complex saroma and cancer patients. um trying to ideally render them disease-free or at least achieve local disease control and then engaging in complex limb or pelvic reconstructions to not just hopefully cure the patients of cancer but provide them with the best possible functional outcome and quality of life. My other interest is in advanced care of patients with limb loss and that's something I was inspired to during my time as a military surgeon. I was inspired to sort of pursue the best practices with regard to amputation and amputation revision surgery, you know, up to and including limb bionics and advanced technologies that can really kind of merge man and machine to improve functional outcomes. If we're able to save your limb, and that's commonly referred to as limb salvage. And limb optimization really focus on going the extra mile after limb salvage is has been successful or amputation is required. Limb optimization is really the principle of okay, your fracture's healed, but you're still having pain or you've lost a critical muscle group or you don't have sensation in your limb or you've had an amputation, you have poor soft tissue coverage. So, what can we do? Whether it's through bracing or a new prostthesis, more rehabilitation or a surgical procedure to truly optimize your limb and maximize your functional potential. Osteo integration and limb optimization are two different but related concepts. Osteo integration in an orthopedic sense refers to uh the direct skeletal attachment of an implant to bone. And with regard to patients with limb loss, it also involves the transcutaneous attachment of a prostesis. So it's a bone anchored prosthetic limb. We can place an implant or fixture inside the bone, exteriorize a portion of the implant so that they're able to, for lack of a better term, clip and go into their uh terminal device. But the real benefits are more in terms of function, in terms of the responsiveness of their terminal device, uh patient ownership and embodiment, feeling like the prosttheesis is a part of them rather than a brace or a tool they use to do things and better functional potential and quality of life following limb loss. The department of orthopedic surgery is trying to grow clinically and expand our depth and specialties that we already have world and nationally known experts in. We're trying to substantially increase our clinical research in terms of funded trials for new devices or new interventions to help improve patient outcomes. And we're trying to revamp and reinvigorate uh our undergraduate and graduate medical education programs so that we can not just rest on our laurels but really try to innovate and be the best in the world at what we do. The best part of my job is getting to take care of patients um in a world-renowned academic health system that actually cares not just about the patients but also about our research and education missions and then the people I get to come to work with every