And I really derive my inspiration from the strength of the patients. Patients are faced with these very difficult circumstances. But I'm always amazed to see how strong people are, how strong the human spirit is in the face of adversity. My name is Ruple Damasia. I'm an interventional cardiologist at Lancaster General Health here at Penn Medicine. My practice as an interventional cardiologist revolves around catheter-based therapies for heart disease. For example, we treat coronary artery disease with catheter-based approaches. We implant stances to relieve obstruction, take care of patients who are having a heart attack that can really be a a life-saving measure. Apart from coronary artery disease, interventional cardiology has expanded into structural heart disease or you know diseases that affect the various other structures of the heart apart from coronary arteries. We're really involved heavily in the treatment of valvular heart disease. The typical flow is that we see the patient in the office. I'll go over their disease with them. We'll go over the physiology. We'll help the patient and their family understand exactly what is going on. We'll lay out the options whether that is a medicine-on-only option or a catheter-based option or even a surgical option and then we typically will do a series of tests to figure out whether we should include or exclude any of those uh options and then we typically have a meeting that includes not only myself but also a general cardiologist, an imaging doctor, a cardiothoracic surgeon, and we have a team of nurse practitioners. We review the images, we review the pertinent data and then we come up with a consensus with respect to what we think is the best option for the patient and then we get back to the patient and we present them with the option and then if they agree then we proceed on the appropriate course. The best part of my job is to really deliver the patient as best an outcome as they can possibly have. One of the really great things about being a cardiologist is you get to see results pretty quickly. A good example of that would be when a patient comes into the hospital with a heart attack and they feel terrible and we bring them up for a heart catheterization and we implant a stent and within certainly less than 90 minutes, usually closer to about 60 minutes, the patient is like a totally new person, feels a lot better and in some instances they're inquiring about going home. And for me that's really a gratifying part of the Um,