I became an aiologist because my niece was actually born with hearing loss. I saw how her aiologist and the use of hearing aids gave her access to sound and access to communication that otherwise would have been very difficult for her. And I saw how she's excelled into a very happy, healthy, successful teenage girl. And I wanted to help other people have that access to sound and communication. Hi, my name is Michaela Hattie and I'm an aiologist here at Pen Medicine. My main focus of work is I would say broadly to help people communicate better. More specifically, I'm a member of the balance team and the hearing aid team. So, we specifically help people hear better through use of hearing aids that are fit properly. And then on the balance side, help people get control of different types of balance disorders. The advancements of hearing aids have has me really excited. There's always new advancements coming out, but in the past, I would say five years, things have really taken off, and there's always a ton of research behind putting out a new hearing aid. And I always tell my patients, hearing aids today are not your grandfather's hearing aids. They really are working and adapting with how busy life has gotten. And it's been really exciting to watch and to fit my patients with and hear their feedback. There has been a stigma with hearing aids saying, "I don't want to get a hearing aid cuz it will make me look old." But with advancements in technology, they really have gotten smaller. So that most of the times you can't even see them. And then also if you're going to say a noisy restaurant and you're able to hear well that's going to give you confidence because if you can communicate well um that's what hearing aids are supposed to do and that's what we've been able to achieve now with the new advancements. The best part of my job are the patients. I see someone from diagnosis of hearing loss to picking out a device uh to picking out a hearing aid and then I love for them to come back and tell me I was able to hear my grandchildren or my wife and I went to our favorite restaurant and for the first time I was able to hear the waitress ask me what I want to order. Things like that is what I look forward to every day.