I was exposed to all different types of specialties through my training. And though I did like aspects of all of them, there wasn't one in particular that I really embraced or loved as a passion. What I most enjoyed was just being able to be equipped to deal with a variety of different issues. As a general surgeon, there are multiple different problems that I can address rather than one particular body system. And I really enjoy that holistic approach. Hi, I'm Dr. Kelly Jenkee and I'm a general surgeon at Pen Medicine. The short answer to the types of patient I see is that I will see pretty much all patients. I believe that when you have a surgical problem or even if you're not sure if you have a surgical problem, you should have the ability to see a competent surgeon to advise you about that. So I don't turn patients away if they're interested in seeking surgical care. The approach to the type of surgery will depend on what kind of surgery it is. When it comes to abdominal surgeries, I certainly always try to think of what is the least invasive way and the way to cause less harm to the patient and approach it that way. So that is often a minimally invasive or robotic technique, a laparoscopic or robotic technique. The benefit of the robot to me is really that it allows you to number one have better visualization. So the technology is very sophisticated. So many people ask, you know, is the robot going to do the surgery? No, the robot is not going to do the surgery. I'm going to do the surgery. and it's just another tool that allows us to do the surgery better. My passion for robotics really began at the beginning of my attending career. Since then has taken off and I've really pursued extra training and extra courses in order to bring some very complex hernia surgery specifically to Lanster County. Some people call it abdominal wall, some people call it hernia surgery, but basically trying to put back together holes in the abdominal wall. So that may result from weaknesses that occur naturally or from other surgeries. And it's really satisfying to me for patients who have been through a lot of traumatic events and different surgeries and they don't feel quite whole again to be able to put them back together and have a good outcome and make them feel good about themselves again. The best part of my job is when I see someone who's in pain and who needs help and I'm be able to offer that in a timely fashion and then see the patient the next day, feel better. that commonly occurs on a typical day on call when someone comes in with a a routine and very common problems such as appendicitis. And though it seems like a minor problem for someone who's experiencing it, it is not a minor problem. It can be very painful. It can be very lifealtering. They're scared. They don't know what's going on. And I'm able to offer an operation with three small incisions that cures that problem. And they can be discharged either the same day or the next day. And there really is nothing better than that.