We have better imaging than we've ever had. So, we can find things that we never would have been able to find before. And I think that knowledge is power. So, I really want to encourage my patients to understand their risk so that they can advocate for themselves moving forward. Hi, I'm Ashley Newman and I'm a breast surgical oncologist here at Penn Medicine. I usually see patients with any kind of breast concern. Sometimes patients come in just for pain. Sometimes they can notice a change in their breast. Sometimes it's not even in their breast. It'll be under their arm and some of their lymph nodes that are associated with the breast tissue. I also see male patients, which I think is a surprise to a lot of people, but men have breast tissue, too, and and definitely have concerns over the course of their lifetime, and it's something that we also treat. So, sometimes our appointments are just informational where we talk about screening recommendations or I do a risk assessment for a patient. Other times, we're talking about treatments and bigger plans for them. I think what really separates us is our approach to multiddisciplinary care. I really find that to be the most powerful thing especially in the world of breast cancer multiddisciplinary care is essential. If we're doing a mastctomy or if we're doing an ankoplastic reduction those are the two big cases that I often do with plastic surgery. Sometimes the ankoplastic reduction it's patient who has breast cancer but also kind of wants a breast reduction or maybe the breast cancer is bigger and a breast reduction will give her a more cosmetically normal appearance after surgery. And then for breast reconstruction after a mastctomy that also happens during the same procedure. I remove the breast tissue, I remove the cancer, check lymph nodes, and the plastic surgeon is usually in the operating room with me assisting with reconstruction at the same time. So, it's it's pretty great. Patients get to go into one procedure and then they come out with a reconstructed breast if if they choose to. We also work a lot with the physical therapy program here and they're phenomenal. I think that's a pretty unique asset to Princeton that people don't even realize is necessarily here. I send most of my postsurgical patients to see the physical therapists. There's always a role for them. And then we also have amazing coordination of care through our nurse navigators. They're really really instrumental in making sure that patients a have another point of contact through this whole process that they can talk to and b coordinate all of these tests, images, everything that kind of goes into the process of being diagnosed with and then treated for breast cancer. The best part of my job is working with my patients. There's nothing more rewarding. I know that when I meet people, I often meet them on one of the worst days of their life. And I try to make this process as painless as possible for them. I want them to know that they have every possible advantage or new drugs or whatever it is to really give them the best care that they could possibly have. I try very hard to make sure that they are being taken care of as people along the way.