I found myself more inclined and interested in the surgical care of patients because it allowed me to be the complete doctor that I always wished I could be. Not just someone that knows the medicine behind things, but also the intricate and complex nature of surgical care before, during, and after. My name is Leonard Emerald and I'm a thoracic surgeon at Penn Medicine Princeton Medical Center. The patients I'd see and the ailments they present with are broad uh ranging from both cancer and non-cancer related diagnosis of the lungs, the heart and the esophagus which is the food pipe that connects your mouth to your stomach. I see a broad range of different diagnoses and problems both very acute and chronic in nature but majority of my practice focuses on lung cancer. There would be patients that are referred that have had all their workup completed with regards to a diagnosis, important imaging and tests that allow me to gauge their candidacy for surgery. Tests that focus on what is called staging or understanding of how far along the cancer is and whether surgery is an option. I dedicate a lot of time for the first clinic visit to discuss the nature of the findings that led them to me. I review the imaging with them directly and allow them an opportunity to visually uh understand what we discuss because in many ways long conversations can be very difficult for patients to understand. Um but be able to show the pictures to explain what they're seeing allows them to put in a much better context. And then we outline the process of what things could be, what they entail, what things have been completed, what things need to be done. I would say the unique nature of the department of thoracic surgery here at uh pen medicine Princeton medical center is our availability and our comprehensive scheduling for the patients and what they need. We all give our cell phone numbers to every patient that we meet and allow them to communicate with us should they need to if they have any additional questions and in many ways just to have a number so if anything were to happen both before during or after the surgery that they can always reach their doctor which nowadays is becoming very very difficult and we provide essentially the entirety of their care without having them need to make their own scheduling or insurance related arrangements. So it's many ways allows us to streamline what they need to get done. Um, and before the patient leaves, after my visit, my nurses and schedulers uh facilitate that so that they have a date and time for their procedures, their tests, and all they have to do is show up. And I think that really is different and unique with regards to practices. I would want patients to know that their voices will always be heard, their decisions will be made together, and that when they leave, their worries and stresses will hopefully be a little bit less than if they hadn't seen me.