My name is Null Williams. Uh I'm a general GI surgeon. I practice at the Hospital of the University Pennsylvania and also at Chester County Hospital. I'm head of the buriatric surgery program for the health system incorporating mainly the three city hospitals that would be Pennsylvania Hospital Presbyian and University Pennsylvania Hospital. We see a lot of patients from the Chester County area. So now we see patients preop out here, operate out here and posttop care and the patients come from you know at kind of a 10 mile radius or maybe more from here. So it's much more convenient for the patients. Buriatric surgery can be very challenging. The patient populations are quite sick. So uh not not inherently sick but they have a lot of co-orbidities or complicating factors associated with obesity. So heart disease, they have sleep apnea, they have orthopedic issues, uh diabetes. So a lot of medical issues. So we really have to make sure our patients are uh very uh tuned up in other words cleared for surgery so that it can be safe. So you know it's not just a regular patient coming in to have a hernia repair. This is a patient having a meaningful operation but also the patient population is relatively high risk and what we've seen here like at our own institution is that the care of those patients both in the operating room and the post-operative setting has been excellent. in relation to what technology or innovations happened over the last I would say 10 15 maybe 20 years and especially of GI surgery beriatric or weight loss surgery it's been monumental in the care of this patient population so first starting with laparoscopic surgery um you know going from open surgery into laparoscopic surgery and more recently we started doing robotic surgery which is a kind of a fancy way of doing laparoscopic surgery using a robot that started in you know the mid 2000s so over the last 15 years the evolution of laparoscopic work and also robotic work has really taken patient care especially in this patient population and especially lime to another level. The most rewarding part of my work uh in operating on patients with morbid obesity is helping them. So these patients come to see us they have a lot of co-orbidities a lot of medical conditions associated with that. They they don't mobilize well and when patients have surgery like this and lose a significant amount of weight. It's a game changer. It's a lifecher and clearly, you know, they're extremely happy with the with the result. That that's pretty satisfying to see that.