My inspiration I think comes from a lot of my mentors who have taught me the right things uh to focus on. I would look back and say at base minimum I think they are just good doctors. They may be great technicians. They may be great at some specific thing that they can do and no one else can do but at the end of the day my inspiration is to be a good doctor. Hi my name is Neil Sheth. I am the chief of orthopedic surgery at Pennsylvania Hospital. I'm the vice chair of clinical operations in the department of orthopedic surgery at pet medicine. I do mainly uh adult hip and knee reconstruction, which means hip and knee replacements. About 30% of my practice is revision surgery. So, someone's had their hip or knee replacement done somewhere and it didn't go well, you got to redo it. These are a little bit more complex procedures. They take a little bit longer, a little bit of a tougher problem. And there's a spectrum of types of revisions that you might encounter. So, some of them are fairly straightforward. You might have to change an intervening piece that you have to take out, which is not too big of a a problem. Other ones, implants might be loose. Other problems, patients might have an infection, which is a really big deal. A lot of my research is actually in bone loss. So, especially bone loss around the pelvis. So, now you've had a hip replacement for 20 years. You've worn out your plastic. And in the process, your body has chomped away those pieces of plastic and some of your bone. And so, how do you reconstruct someone's pelvis when half of the bone is missing? It is a multi-disiplinary approach to take care of those patients. You got to do a lot of pre-operative planning and kind of really go through all the different things that can possibly happen. Try to anticipate the things that you may not even think about that could happen that can really sideline your procedure because you want to be able to do these quickly, efficiently, and be able to get the patient off the table in a quick fashion. Using a team approach is helpful. Preop planning is really helpful. And then for us, we have fellows and senior level residents who want to go into joint replacement who want to learn these cases in their training. So having them engage in the whole process is really great to teach them how to do these sort of reproducibly and safely. and then getting the entire O team on point before you do this case so that everyone knows exactly what you need, what your plan is, and what to have available if something were to change in the operating room and you have to make a quick sort of split-second decision. I think one of the best strengths of our department is that we are willing to see anyone and everyone and can take care of any problem. There are patients that come in with very severe problems and some of these patients are medically sick, some of them are surgically complex. And then you get some of these patients who are very healthy and have a very quick fix to their problem and they can get back up and going back to what they want to do pretty quickly. I think for us, we take care of anything and everything. And so, as a result, I think we're able to deliver care at the highest level for all of those patients under that spectrum. It really does give me a lot of joy to be able to take care of those patients that have tough problems that we've got a solution. And again with the team-based approach, we can come up with a solution that is reproducible and take care of a lot of people.