I always wanted to be a doctor from a very early age. I think in inherent in my personality was this desire to help people. I think medicine is the one profession that people with those aspirations really really gravitate towards. I'm Bryson Katona. I'm a gastroenterenterologist and director of the gastrointestinal cancer genetics program at Penn Medicine. I'm a physician scientist here at Penn Medicine. And really all of my clinical care and all of my research efforts are all focused on hereditary cancer predisposition syndromes, specifically those that increase risk for cancers of the digestive tract, including stomach cancer, pancreatic cancer, and colurectal cancer. So when we meet with individuals and they come into the office, typically we'll meet with myself or one of our other cancer genetics physicians as well as a genetic counselor. We spend a lot of time going through a very detailed family history focusing on cancers that are diagnosed in the family. We then also of course review the patients own medical history and then have a very in-depth discussion with the patient about genetic testing about what the options for genetic testing are and what the potential results that will come back could mean for the patient and for the patient's family. So to illustrate the the power of genetic testing and identifying a cancer predisposition syndrome, we've had several individuals here at Penn who have been diagnosed with Lynch syndrome, which is the most common cause of hereditary colurectal cancer. Actually on their first colonoscopies, they were found to have a colctal cancer. And these are colonoscopies that were performed much earlier than would be recommended by standard screening guidelines. The fact that we're able to catch these cancers early in individuals who otherwise would not be getting screening for many, many years allows us to take proactive approaches to treat those cancers with positive outcomes at the end. What inspires me is making a difference in the lives of patients and and their families. Whether it's through clinical care or if it's through corresponding research that we do in hereditary cancer predisposition syndromes that has and likely will continue to directly impact how we manage individuals with these cancer predisposition syndromes. Being able to make a difference in individuals lives is really what inspires me to do what I do.