Inherited heart disease runs in my family and where I grew up there weren't any doctors that, really any cardiologists, much less people that took care of inherited heart problems, so that's why I went into this field. My name's Alex de Feria and I'm a cardiologist at Penn Medicine. I take care of patients with genetic forms of heart disease. So, I see young patients, older patients and entire families that come with familial forms of heart problems, and I also read imaging in the cardiology department. I usually see conditions like hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, which is a type of condition that the heart is thick. I see other types called dilated cardiomyopathy, which is kind of the opposite where the heart is bigger, and then other forms of inherited diseases. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, or a lot of people know it as HCM, is a disease where the left side of the heart gets thick and it can get thick in different parts. A lot of people have no idea they have it, no symptoms, but it can present with abnormal heart rhythms. Other times people just hear that their family members have it and they get checked and are found to have it as well. But it's actually pretty common, probably closer to one in 250 people have it. We have a full range of things that we offer patients from dedicated genetic counseling visits to hour and a half long sessions with the cardiologists, nurses, nurse practitioners, and those genetic counselors. And if we have patients that we think needs some sort of intervention, whether it's a surgery or other procedure, a lot of times we can coordinate to meet with them and the proceduralists on the same visit. So, when people are coming from long distances, we can kind of get everything done in kind of a one-stop shop approach. We see three generations of many families in our clinics. And so, you know, our genetic counselor will sit down and draw this big family tree, this pedigree, and we'll be like, oh, yep, I've seen them, them, them, them, them. That part is nice. It's one of my favorite parts is to get to know whole families and watch them grow. I'm very lucky in that I get to spend a lot of time doing exactly what I want to do and I spend a lot of time with my patients. And so, Penn has allowed me to have longer visits and to sit down and really have the conversations that I think need to be had without rush. That's my favorite part of it, is to get to know the people.