I've always been active with sports growing up. It's just something that was a big part of my life and, you know, had dealt with some small injuries and kind of seen a little bit of of what orthopedics has to offer. But I think kind of combining the interest I had in medicine and the sciences, but with my natural inclination towards, you know, sports, I was definitely drawn to orthopedics. And I think it it really has been the perfect choice for me. Hello, I'm Matthew Porman. I'm an orthopedic surgeon here at Penn Medicine, Lancaster General Health. I see, you know, primarily adults with hip and knee pain. There's a variety of different treatment options that exist that we have to manage those things. Some as easy as topical treatments, some medications by mouth, times that we do injections, and times that we need to go on to even more invasive things such as surgery. We take an individualized approach to each patient and make sure that we get them the exact treatment they need again to treat their pain, uh, restore their function and get them back to doing the things that they want to do. I think that it's just important to know that we will take an individualized approach. We will focus in on their specific history, on a detailed physical exam, and on their imaging to come to a diagnosis and then come up with a treatment plan that works for them. You know, the goal is to improve pain, improve function, but make sure that people are able to have a great quality of life and do the things that they want to do. Different people have different expectations and demands on their body. And I think, you know, those factors are very important when it comes to ultimately determining what the best treatment plan is for an individual patient. An X-ray tells a lot of information, but it's not the whole story. We treat the patient as a whole. One thing that I specifically offer is direct anterior total hip replacement. This is a minimally invasive approach to total hip replacement that has become popular in recent years. I think it allows people to have less pain and a better early recovery and I think it will overall improve their outcomes after hip replacement. So I do like to perform anterior total hip replacement in people who are appropriate candidates. I think just having access to cutting edge technology, all the advancements in the hip and knee replacement side of things and trying to push the boundaries of what is possible and then also being involved on the research side of things in terms of tracking outcomes, seeing what interventions make the most difference to improve people's outcomes. I think Pen Medicine is a leader when it comes to research and innovation in the space of hip and knee replacement. It's a number of different things, but I think, you know, seeing patients who have pain every day, who their joint arthritis affects their quality of life and what they're able to achieve and just getting them back to a pain-free state where they're able to do the things that they want to do and restore the function in their affected hip or knee. It's miraculous what we're able to offer them and it gets people back on their feet and gets them moving. I think can, you know, be a gamecher for their quality of life.