and I was an intern doing my first year um in my general surgery rotations and and I'd already kind of started down that training pathway, but it was getting in the patient's room and seeing when someone came in for their transplant that you get called in and you can just see the life-changing impact that a kidney transplant can have. Hi, my name is Kyle Jackson. I'm a transplant surgeon here at Pin Medicine. I'm a kind of a multi-organ abdominal transplant surgeon. So, I focus on the kidney and pancreas and I do both adult and pediatric transplantation. It's just the coolest, you know. I think it's the best field and I frankly I don't know why everybody doesn't do transplant surgery. It's extraordinarily rewarding. I do both living donor kidney transplantation and deceased donor kidney transplantation. And I think it's great to be able to flip back and forth between those worlds. And you take organs and you're able to use those organs to to get people off dialysis or people who have cerosis and endstage liver disease and are in the hospital all the time. You can get them off dialysis. And I think it's it's really rewarding because that act of donation means a lot to the donor families too. And I think it it helps them take something that's very tragic and at least find some solace or or some positive aspects of that. And then on the whole other side, there's the living donors who truly there are some people who just truly come forward and are and are thinking to themselves, I want to do good in the world and this is one way that I can. I don't care who my kidney goes to. I just want it to go wherever it can do the most good. I think it's the best transplant group in the country. It's an extraordinarily well functioning team. I think we all work really well together and you know if you go online or whatever and you read through profiles, everybody is excellent at something and so you can kind of tap into these really different and unique expertise. A transplant is very complex and a lot of the decisions are made very quickly. they need to happen in the middle of the night. And it's awesome to be able to to pick up a phone, well, you know, seven or eight other people and get their thoughts and to make sure we do the right thing for the patient because at the end of the day, you know, that's what we're here for and that's what we're trying to do. Everyone's here working all the time um to try to make our system better and get as many people transplanted as possible. The best part of my job is the patients without question. I think just being able to help people get off dialysis is the mo, you know, like I said, it's why I got into transplant and it's why I'll stay in transplant. I don't think I could do anything else in medicine. The patients are the best and I love the operations. I love what we do. I love the field that we're in.