I just felt like I wanted a career where I made a difference for other women and girls. And what I love about our field is that you interact with women um at the most intimate moments in their life, whether it's a pregnancy, a first cancer diagnosis, um a miscarriage, a new relationship. So that's what I was seeking to really make a difference. And we have the privilege of taking care of not just one patient, but two. and everyone remembers who delivered their baby. My name is Nha Desh Pande. I'm a full scope OBGYn generalist and inpatient medical director here at Penn Medicine Princeton Medical Center. I think what's really exciting for me is that I'm a generalist OBGYn and as a part of that I age with my patients. So I have been side by side with my patients through new engagements, being excited about getting married and starting their families, being pregnant with them. many of them now I've delivered their second or third baby. I'm sure eventually as I continue to age with them I'll experience uh pmenopause with them. So that's been really wonderful for me now having experienced pregnancy and delivering here. I just have so much more empathy and I can share from personal experience what's best for patients. The focus of my practice has definitely become more obstetrical based. So patients planning their preconception visit who need to know the steps to plan and try for a healthy pregnancy. I do full prenatal care and on the other side I take call and I I'm doing deliveries on labor and delivery gyn basic annual wellness exams, contraception management, major and minor minimally invasive surgeries, menopause care, the full gamut of a generalist OBGYn. The way that I approach patient care is through shared decisionmaking. I'm here to counsel you about all of your choices and options, but you are the leader of your own pregnancy journey. So ultimately, you're the boss. I'm here to help you make the right choices to make sure that you have the healthiest pregnancy and delivery experience possible. The best part of my job here at Penn Medicine Princeton is the people. coming to work every day. I have my work family here with my colleagues, my fellow physicians, our staff, and our nurses to really work together as a team to take the best care of patients.