At the end of the day, to know that you have impacted someone's life in a positive way, that's really what inspires and drives me. It's all about improving someone's quality of life. Hi, my name is Anubhala and I'm a family medicine physician with a focus on obesity and weight management here at Penn Medicine Princeton. We take a patient and look at their entire medical history, see what other chronic conditions they have and see how from a weight loss perspective, how those chronic conditions can improve. So if a patient has, for example, type 2 diabetes or even pre-diabetes, high blood pressure, there's a whole set of conditions that are directly correlated with um weight. We will work with the patient from a multid-disciplinary team. So along with myself as a medical weight management doctor, we have a dietitian, we have behavioral health, we have a beriatric surgery team, it's really a full spectrum of care with a team approach really get them to their healthy weight keeping in mind that the primary outcome should be improvement of their chronic medical condition and obviously very important is the quality of life. So the first visit is usually about 45 minutes long. The majority of that visit along with reviewing the patients medical history, surgical history, medications is also the education piece and how obesity is a disease that involves so many different factors, hormones, stress, all of those things. We have patients that may not be eligible or may not be appropriate for buriatric surgery and they will see me for the medical piece. So I will do the counseling, medication management if that's a route that they choose to go on. If a patient is not achieving their weight loss goal with our intervention with the medical piece, then we work very closely with our beriatric team. What I want patients to understand is that when you come to see me, we're going to see what are the most simple and most basic changes and then we layer on top of that. I will listen to you. I'll be there for you. We have to work together. this is a kind of a long-term strategy then we have to really be patient I think and both for the patient and as a physician too what we practice and what we do is really satisfying it's really gratifying we can give them tangible results and it's it's just very rewarding I would say is really the