There's not many careers out there that you can go into where you can feel like you're making a difference every single day positively for someone and was lucky enough to be exposed to some of that through family and just you know some family friends and be able to shadow early just to get an idea of what was medicine like and it kind of clicked. I'm Roani Nanabati and I am a vascular and endovvascular surgeon here at Lancaster General Health at Pen Medicine. I have a large patient panel that's in their early 40s to in their 90s. That's the average in terms of what happens for patients in their natural course of peripheral arterial disease or the buildup of aththerosclerosis or hardening of the arteries. Other times in a smaller subset of patients, it's young people who are coming for vein disease which is a separate issue from arterial disease. It's wounds that aren't healing because of backed up pressure in limbs and or even sometimes a little bit of cosmetic work. Basic surgery is exciting because it's right on the forefront of technology. Between our gold standard open surgical cases that have been around for decades to the newest endovvascular treatment regimens, whether it's transcoded arterial revascularization, which is using stances in combination with open surgery to reduce risk of stroke while treating bad blockages. I did the first detour procedure here at Lancaster General. It's a perccutaneous transmural arterial bypass, which essentially means I'm doing it all perccutaneously, meaning through minimally invasive techniques using catheters and wires. So I'm actually using a set of stances that I will actually pass from the artery which is blood flow towards let's say the leg and create a transition into the vein and borrow real estate in a vein which is the blood flow system that leave the limb and then kind of create a channel from the inside around a blockage and then rerouted basically back into the main vessel. It's a phenomenal procedure because patients can essentially walk away with a major blockage addressed to even pushing the limits on redefining what anatomy is. I do deep venus or superficial venus arterialization which is uh unique to my practice and it's the opportunity for patients who have really obliterated completely their blood vessels that provide blood flow into the limb specifically in the leg. The best part of my job is seeing a major problem fixed and being able to see the difference that you made immediately. Watching blood flow is the best.