Surgery is so impactful. I mean, when you're operating on someone, you're physically altering their body. And I thought that was the most profound thing that you can do. Someone has given you the privilege to operate on them, to work on them, and to solve an issue. And I think that's just so humbling that someone would trust you with their life. And so when I saw that and then I saw postoperatively how well patients did and how much I contributed to them doing well, that's what pushed me into surgery. I'm Lahari Viri. I'm a general surgeon here at Pen Medicine. I think in Lancaster County, we are very fortunate to have a wide variety of diversity and a lot of patients with various ages, etc. We kind of see a very broad pathology. So, as a general surgeon, we kind of need to know the breadth that covers all of the headto toe stuff. When we're doing inpatient stuff, meaning that we cover acute care surgery or emergency surgeries, we tend to also see a wide variety of pathology there, too. Whether it's gastric perforations or colonic perforations or people that come in with bowel obstructions etc or even pediatric patients that come in with app with appendicitis. I think I have a very patient centered approach when I deal with talking to patients about their pathology. I always make sure that they understand what I'm talking about. It's very easy to get lost in the medical jargon. What I usually do is I usually go through with them hey what are you experiencing? Then I go through with them this is the workup that other people have done. These are the labs that you have the imaging that you have. We'll make sure that we understand that we're on the same page. Then I'll talk to them about if I have a solution for the issue they're coming in with. For example, if the solution is surgery, we talk about all the options, surgery, non-surgical options, and then referrals. So when I'm talking about surgery, I always make sure that they understand each step of the process. So whether that's coming in through the door, what the surgery looks like, what postoperative recovery looks like for them too. MIS and robotic surgery. The goal of this is to basically do minimally invasive surgery. And what that means is to do surgery with smaller incisions so that patients overall have less pain from the procedure and a much faster recovery time. So I think we see a big benefit to patients nowadays because some things that in the past people have had to stay in the hospital for many days now they can have a same day surgery, go home, take care of their family and go on with their life in a much quicker recovery period. The reason I chose pen medicine is because of how friendly everyone is and truly everyone's like a family. Whether that's in our office or if it's in our clinic or in the O. Everyone knows each other well enough to be respectful of each other and to also create a community. I think the best part of my job is seeing postoperative patients. I love going to clinic or even after their surgery around in the hospital and seeing how much better they look. When I get to see them a day after I operate on them or even a couple hours later and they're like, I feel so much better. I think that's the most rewarding part of my job, knowing that I physically did something that helped this patient out. I think that's the best reward that you can get.