I always had a passion for helping people and I found that I love science and anatomy so that naturally led me to medicine. My name is Logan Carr. I'm a plastic surgeon with Pen Medicine Lancaster General Health. The main focus of my work here at Penn is general plastic surgery with a specialization in hand and upper extremity. It's a mix of elective and more emergent cases and problems. So tendon lacerations, fractures, sometimes I see patients who are in car accidents and had upper extremity trauma. And then you have the more elective side where it's arthritis or nerve compression such as carpal tunnel, tendinitis such as uh decor veins or trigger finger which is extremely common. hand and upper extremity is very unique because patients can have the same problem but depending on their lifestyle or their goals, I'm able to customize the treatment to their specific needs. So, it's very specialized. There are certain algorithms, but I frequently find myself learning more about the patient and adjusting those algorithms to specifically fit that patient. A hand trauma or a fracture in an athlete may require an open reduction in internal fixation where a retiree who just wants to enjoy life at that point will get a non-operative treatment. Right now in hand and upper extremity surgery I'm able to do a lot of wide awake uh hand surgery which is interesting and very beneficial to the patients because I can bring a lot of procedures that used to be done in the operating room into the clinic and do them under local anesthetic relatively painlessly. So it's much safer for the patients cuz there's no intubation. There's no general anesthesia or sedation. It's all just under local anesthetic and then it's way more convenient for the patient because they don't have to undergo the pre-operative testing meeting with anesthesia. I can do it for a lot of things but that's something that I would discuss with the patient and if if they're comfortable with it carpal tunnel trigger finger cyst skin cancer arthritis procedures all can be done in the clinic as opposed to the operating room. At Penn Medicine, we have such a collaborative environment that I haven't experienced at other institutions. If orthopedic surgery or neurosurgery has a problem with a wound or a case, they call us and we're there. And likewise, if we have an issue, we're able to consult them. With Pen Medicine, it's just very open communication. Everybody takes responsibility and everybody's happy to help each other. The best part of my job is being able to help patients achieve their goals while working in an outstanding institution in a place where I actually want to be.