I really love the part of beriatric surgery where I get to know the patients and really continue to care for them throughout their life. Um, which is different from other specialties in general surgery. And so I always tell people like I think beriatrics is almost like the obstetrics of general surgery because it's happy surgery. I make a really profound difference in patients lives and I get to see that for a long time. Hi, I'm Lisa Duskin. I am the medical director at the center for metabolic medicine and beriatric surgery here at pen medicine Princeton. Classically, you know, these are patients who have been struggling with their weight since they were children. And then as they get older, they develop the conditions that are associated with obesity. So, diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, sleep apnnea. And so, it's really treating all of those diseases as you treat their obesity. I got my certification in obesity medicine because I understand that obesity is a chronic disease and we really need to start treating it that way. So you know surgery is important but treating the different aspects of obesity offering patients more than one modality of treatment is also important. My basic approach in helping patients to make the decision of whether they proceed with medication or surgery is to find out about their lives, find out about their other medical conditions. We talk a lot about their eating habits and behaviors. But then some of it is also what are their goals? Um is their goal to lose a certain amount of weight? Is their goal to undergo a knee replacement? to be able to run a marathon and also how much weight do they have to lose to achieve those goals. In general, for patients who have more weight to lose, like 80, 100 plus pounds, surgery is a better option because they're more likely to lose the weight that they need to lose. But for patients who have, you know, 20, 30, or 40 lbs to lose, uh, medication is a great option as well. I tell people I think having weight loss surgery is one of the most profound things you can go through in life. Really comparable to any major life change like getting married, having children because it just changes your life in so many different ways. The reactions are, you know, really across the board. But for the most part, it's just patients who feel like they got their life back. We call them non-scale victories that patients talk about. little things that if you don't struggle with your weight, you don't think are a big deal. But it's like things like, you know, being able to get on amusement rides with their kids, sit in a movie theater without feeling like you're not going to be able to fit. You know, things that seem like they're small things but really add up to somebody's quality of life.