I have always really loved science, and I feel like I had exposure. I started volunteering in hospitals when I was in high school, and then I really felt like being in the hospitals and working with patients, helping patients do the things that they wanted to do by maintaining their health was really important to me and something I really enjoyed. Hi, I'm Mindy Ganguly, I'm a neurologist at Penn Medicine. Anyone can have a seizure, if somebody's really sick, if they have pneumonia, if there's something else going on that really stresses the body, anyone can have a seizure. It's really when somebody has something about their brain that predisposes them to having future seizures is when it becomes epilepsy. Every person is different, every person has different seizure types, has different thresholds of what's important to them. Epilepsy five years ago is not the same as epilepsy today. Epilepsy last year has different options than it has today. So that's in particular what I do within epilepsy. I focus on clinical trials, especially device trials because the forefront of what is clinically applicable in epilepsy is constantly changing. There's just such a vast landscape of interventions, so treatments, devices, surgical options that are available. And what that means is that every person who comes in has a different option that's right for them. I think the best part of the job is the diversity of everything that I see. I see really functional patients who are teachers, lawyers who are just going about able to live their lives with rare seizures if any. And then I also see patients who are acutely ill, and who are a little bit more challenging. So that diversity in how sick they are is really challenging and I think something that I find really rewarding when we are able to make a difference. I really love neurology because I feel like patients really care about neurological issues. So it's not just a lab value, it's not just a number on a blood pressure cuff, or something like that, it's if they can't walk, if they can't talk it really impacts their ability to function and do their job and interact with their family. So I feel like when we're treating a neurological issue we're really helping a person just live their life to the fullest.