When I was a little kid, our pediatrician lived across the street from us and I was always sort of inspired by him to go into medicine, and I went to medical school thinking I was going to do pediatrics, and then fell in love with cardiology. My name's Paul Fiorilli, I'm an interventional cardiologist at Penn Medicine. The main focus of my work here at Penn is structural heart disease and complex coronary artery disease. I work to fix problems for patients in their heart with structural heart abnormalities, with minimally invasive techniques. Patients that come to see me are typically suffering from coronary artery disease and chest pain, as well as valvular heart abnormalities, like aortic stenosis, and mitral regurgitation. Another group of patients that I take care of are young patients who have strokes and have holes in their hearts that we take care of and close in the Cath Lab. When patients choose me as a provider, they can expect that my main focus will be on taking care of them as a whole person, not a disease process, or a case. When you come to see me, I'm seeing you as who you are in your life, and how we can achieve the goals that you want to achieve, by treating the conditions that you have. One of the hats I wear here at Penn Medicine is I'm the Co-Director of our Transcatheter Valve program. Our program performed the first transcatheter aortic valve replacement in the region, about 15 years ago, and since then, we've built a big, robust program, primarily with transcatheter aortic valve replacement, or TEVAR, but also with mitral valve treatments, transcatheter, as well as tricuspid, which we're on a trial basis. And my role in that program is to help lead and guide the ship and perform the procedures and enroll patients in clinical trials. My favorite part of my job is taking care of patients and being there at the bedside. There's really nothing quite like being able to take someone through some of the most stressful times in their life and walk them through it, knowing that you're going to get them through it to the other side. (tranquil music)