I was actually an architectural engineering major in undergrad. I took a neuroscience class with my roommate at the time, and we learned all of these fascinating conditions from different areas of the brain causing these symptoms that we have no idea why they're occurring. My name is Christina Jackson. I'm a brain tumor and skull-based tumor neurosurgeon here at Penn Medicine. I treat a variety of different types of brain tumors that include benign brain tumors as well as cancerous tumors. I specialize in tumors that occur at the base of the skull so these are pituitary tumors, meningiomas, schwannomas, and chordomas. These tumors are often around very critical structures of the brain, including nerves and vessels. So one thing that drew me to skull-based surgery is that these surgeries require very high technical abilities. But over the past five to 10 years we're now developing these minimally invasive approaches with the advancement of tools and specialized cameras that now we can provide surgery for these patients without a scar. So operating through the nose or working with our oculoplastic surgeons operating through their eyebrow or creases of their eye where the scar is hidden and it's a very minimally invasive approach to these tumors. And that's one thing I'm really excited about, to further develop these more minimally invasive approaches. Very few centers can provide that high level of technical approach to their skull-based tumors, and I think Penn is one of those few places. We have phenomenal colleagues in ear, nose, and throat. I work with the rhinologist, the nose doctors, as well as the otologist, the ear doctors in combined approaches for tumors at the base of the skull. I would like my patients to know that I would be involved in every aspect of their care, not just their neurosurgical issues but how their brain tumor affects their other medical problems and their lives, with the goal of getting them back to their normal lives as soon as possible. One thing I enjoy the most about what I do, we understand that when patients come to us, either, you know, knowing what they have, with a brain tumor it's a very scary experience. Not knowing what that means, is this cancer is this not cancer. To be able to take them through one of the most difficult times of their lives and guide them through that process to the other end I think it's very rewarding and it's what I enjoy most. Seeing these patients in clinic, I always tell the residents that, you know you see these patients at their worst in the hospital and when you become an attending and see these patients in clinic is really the time that you kind of reinforce yourself this is why I went into this field in the first place. They're extremely grateful, very invested in their care and to be able to see them back enjoying what they were doing before, being able to interact with their family members, it's probably one of the best things.