I really felt connected to when I volunteered in a hospital in high school, to what was happening throughout the whole environment, and helping people and using science, and new findings to help people, kind of seemed to jive with me. My name's Visish Srinivasan. I'm a Cerebral Vascular Neurosurgeon here at Penn Medicine. My focus here at Penn is to treat anything related to cerebrovascular disease. So I treat stroke, aneurysms, arterial venous malformations, cavernous malformations, anything that's a disorder of the blood vessels either in the brain or the spine. In addition, I do clinical and translational research, so to try and bring some of the newest innovations in medicine and work on some of the basic understanding of these diseases and translate that to something that I can actually use to treat patients. Some patients come to me through the emergency room, so a lot of the diseases that affect the blood vessels of the brain and spine result in stroke or bleeding in the brain, and those happen as emergencies, and about the other half of my practice, patients come to me with a diagnosis of something that they may have not even been symptomatic from but were found during some sort of another study. Things like aneurysms that are unruptured or brain AVMs, and these patients come to me with something that they don't feel in their brains or their spine, but it sounds dangerous, and so it's this balance between the most severe kind of patients, people who may be coming to me with a very severe stroke or even in a coma, and then patients who are completely normal but have something dangerous inside them that I'm tasked with fixing on either end. I really like to form a strong connection with my patients. They're going through some of the toughest times in their life, whether they come through the ER, or they meet me in the clinic, I feel like I want to gain their trust and gain the trust of not just them, but all their loved ones as well. So, when they go in the operating room with me, or they are formulating a plan with me, they know that they're part of that decision, and I'm there to kind of guide them through that tough time, whatever it may be. I think that's the most gratifying part of the job is being able to see people go back to their regular lives and kind of let them know, "You don't need a neurosurgeon anymore." Sometimes I've formed a connection with those patients and I'd love to see them every year, but it's kind of a graduation of sorts to be able to say, "You don't need me anymore. You're back to your regular life." is a very gratifying thing.