I was really lucky in my engineering program as an undergraduate to participate in some design teams. And what was nice about that is we had a lot of clinical experiences just as undergraduates and were able to talk with physicians and patients and think about what we could do as engineers to better their care, better their experiences. having uh an experience where we could think about innovative, thoughtful engineering to improve somebody's life. That that was what made it come full circle for me and really brought me into medical school. My name is Allison Sao and I'm an interventional cardiologist and adult congenital heart disease specialist here at Pen Medicine. I tend to see patients that have some sort of valvular heart disease. This can be acquired heart disease um or congenital heart disease and evaluating if they're candidates for minimally invasive valve therapies. This can be their only valvular heart disease intervention. This could be, you know, their fifth valvular heart disease intervention. And I look a at a lot of um multimodality imaging, whether that's echo, CT, MRI, then work very closely with my surgical partners to see what options are are available for that individual and what would be appropriate. I spend most of my time in the Kath lab thinking about complex cardiovascular systems. sometimes just trying to figure out how they're working, how we can optimize them. I also see this group of adult congenal heart disease patients. I also see them in the clinic, not necessarily for procedural related concerns. And I care for the adult congenital heart disease patients across their their spectrum of life. So in the outpatient clinic through various procedures, through surgeries, and hopefully through a lot of wellness, too. The best part is being able to sit down with a patient in clinic and think about everything that they've already gone through in their life and what their goals are and how we can appropriately make a decision for that patient. As we think about some of these innovative technologies and therapies, we sometimes think about, okay, this next decision, we need to make the next best decision. But these are also patients who've had a lifetime of medical decisions and I need to think about what we need to do next, but also what the next decision might be and how that's going to impact the next possibilities for them. I really love thinking about the lifetime of cardiovascular care for a patient and being able to talk with them about that and hopefully partner with their care. There are so many amazing dedicated people that have a breadth of training that come together in a really wonderful way. Whether we're talking about innovative robotic surgery versus a trans catheter therapy or multiple trans catheter therapy options, we can get all the right people in the right room evaluating the right patient at the right time to make sure that we can find the best option for that individual. And that is really remarkable just the breadth of talent and some wonderful colleagues that we have here.