I think it's the ability to really impact people's lives in a positive way and orthopedic surgery in particular, I think it's more of a quality of life aspect rather than a life and death aspect. So, the ability to really impact people and improve their quality of life in a substantial way, I think, is really what drove me towards medicine and orthopedics in particular. Hi, my name is Charles Nelson. I'm the chief of the joint replacement service here at Pen Medicine. So, I'm a hip and knee surgeon. Basically, I do a lot of joint replacements both for people who have disabling conditions involving their hip and knee as well as some joint preservation type of surgeries in cases where that is a possibility. And I do a lot of what's called revision work, which are people who have had previous uh replacements, but those have failed. And those really require a little more creativity. So, our goal is to uh do one surgery and be done with it. And that's a combination of both how well the surgery is done as well as the quality of the materials that are utilized. So all those things come together to hopefully make this be a lifetime procedure. It's the whole gamut of people who who damage their uh hip or knee joints and uh some of those are from just age and wear and degeneration and some of those factors are genetic. Some of those are based on the amount of pressure people put on their joints based on weight, whether or not people have had injuries, and sometimes it's a major injury, uh, where there's a fracture going into the joint. Sometimes it's repetitive minor injuries and and repetitive trauma that together lead to the joint deteriorating and wearing out. I consider every patient as an individual and I try to do what is best for them based upon what they desire. I try and give them the information so that they have the knowledge so that they can make the best decision for themselves and and my goal is to try to help them with what their goals are. In our specific division, you know, we've been able to recruit some really really outstanding individuals. So, I think a lot of it has to do with the people who we bring in. And then I think the the strength of the medical institution as a whole means that we're collaborating with excellent people in anesthesia, excellent people in medicine who are involved in in clearing our patients and making certain that the risk factors are minimized as much as possible. So I think the the strength of the institution and the strength of the groups that are involved in the care of the patient is is one of the things that makes PEN so special. I think the best part of my job is really impacting the quality of life of patients. And I think the next best part of my job is having the opportunity to train future leaders so that they can impact the lives of patients going forward for generations.