What made me become a doctor? I always dreamed to become a doctor ever since I was a child. I think for me was helping people. That's the core of us being physicians is helping others and making a difference in people's lives. Hi, my name is Demetrius Nasudis. I'm a gynecological oncologist here at Pen Medicine. As a gynecological oncologist, I take care of women with uh gynecological malignancies including ovarian cancer, uterine cancer, cervical cancer, vulvar and vaginal cancer as well as women that require complex pelvic surgery. I perform both minimally invasive as well as radical surgeries and I do administer chemotherapy and as well as other targeted agents. When patients first come see me for their first visit, it's a comprehensive visit. I get to know them. I get to know their medical history. We get to know them as persons and then we discuss all the data we have available and then we discuss with them all the options that can be available for them and how to best formulate their plan of care. The diagnosis of cancer can be something new and it can be something scary. I'm there for my patients from the beginning of their journey all the way to survivorship and we're there to provide answers. We're there to guide them and we're there to help them with this new diagnosis. Most of the times patients come with their families and always encourage patients to come for these tough and difficult conversations with a second pair of ears. It's always best than just one so they can process all the information. My department of obstruction gynecology as well as the aprons and cancer center stands out in terms of excellence in both in patient care as well as research. Here in pen medicine we provide worldclass treatment to our patients and unique access to novel treatments and clinical trials. Our field as a in oncologist and especially gynecological oncology has been evolving rapidly the past few years. We have novel treatments that have revolutioniz our field and provide new options for patients. We've seen the introduction of specific targeted agents as well as novel classes that provide treatment options for women uh that had no other agents available in the past. And we see an increase in survival. We see an increase and making difference in patient lives. It's both survival as well as quality of life. I draw inspiration from my patients. My patients are heroes in my opinion. They go through a frightening diagnosis of cancer. They go through treatment and they carry their lives in the same time. That also guides is my inspiration for both my clinical care as well as my research uh trying to find new treatments in the lab for my patients.