I think the first time I was interested in being a doctor was when I was with my dad as a kid. So my dad is kind of the classic, local, family medicine physician, where everybody knows him, not the biggest town in the world. And so I was heavily, I'd say, impacted by the relationships he had with people when I was growing up. And I always thought that was pretty neat seeing, you know, how everybody knew him, and how he'd impacted their lives, and I just wanted to be a part of that. My name is Matt Hyman. I'm a Cardiac Electrophysiologist at Penn Medicine. Cardiac Electrophysiologists are the sort of electricians of the heart. There are some that focus on the pumping, there's some that focus on the "plumbing" we like to say. So the blood vessels that are around the heart looking for blockages and clearing those blockages. My discipline focus is more on the electrical aspects of the heart. And we focus on arrhythmias. So, people's hearts that go too fast, people's hearts that go too slow. The thing to keep in mind, particularly for electrophysiology, is that it's a pretty complex discipline. The questions and the problems we're trying to help people manage are not straightforward. It's not one size fits all. It's not like you have to do this or you have to do that and say, look, these are the options, but like how does that fit in with your persona, the way you like to approach problems? Because some people, you know, will do everything they can to avoid medicine, and some people do everything they can to avoid a procedure. You know, there is no necessarily right or wrong. So I think what we do a good job of is really trying to customize and tailor the solution to the problem, to the patient and really helping them find what's the best answer for them. I really enjoy doing procedures. Part of the reason why I'm interested in EP is it's a little bit of like a mental puzzle because you have to kind of figure out what's going on and how best to approach it. And again, there's not one size that fits all. And so, when you start at the beginning, it's all kind of this blank slate, and then you finally get to the end, you figured out what to do and you get that validation of, alright they had an arrhythmia to start and now nothing is there anymore. It looks, you know, we fixed their problem. That that feels pretty darn good.