The best part of my job is really making an impact on each individual patient, connecting with someone who's looking for help. Someone who's come to our clinic, they're there for a reason. They took the time, the effort to reach out, whether to make a call or visit the website, and I take that very seriously. I'm John Shin, division head of spine and peripheral nerve surgery and director of the Pen Medicine Spine Center here at Penn Medicine. We have an incredible multid-disiplinary spine center. It's not just a concept. We have a physical space but we also have tremendous buyin and engagement with providers across all these domains specifically neurosurgery, orthopedics, anesthesia pain, physiatry, physical therapy. So I specialize in a reconstruction surgery for complex spinal disorders. This includes scoliosis in adults, complex degenerative issues in the neck, the lower back as well as cancers of the spine. Some of these tumors require meticulous micro surgery for resection of tumors and some of these surgeries require extensive multi- surgeon teams to resect not only just the nerve portion of the tumor but also the bony portion of the tumor. I recently had a patient who was suffering from debilitating pain that was impacting her ability to walk. She was in a wheelchair and for months she was seeking help. She finally got an MRI and it showed that she had a large tumor pushing on her spinal cord in the middle of her back. We discussed how this was impacting her quality of life and in a very quick turnaround we performed this operation. She's done remarkably well now out of a wheelchair walking and seeing the impact that that surgery and many surgeries like that can have on patients where they know something's wrong and they're looking for someone not only to listen but to advocate for them and to own that risk to help them in an area where very few can. And this patient had been evaluated by two other surgeons who all recommended that she come to pen medicine for higher level surgical care. In this patient, like many others, I remember her sitting in a wheelchair, slouched in the chair. She had this sense of just being defeated because she was tired of being turned away or being told, "Oh, we don't know or the surgery is too risky." And so being able to see her and seeing her in clinic, the big smile on her face and just expressing how much it's meant to her is is very rewarding.