My name is Chris Duman. I'm a uh general surgeon practicing minimally invasive Ben beriatric surgery at the University of Pennsylvania and at Chester County Hospital. I did my residency initially in Germany. Uh it was very uh trauma surgery focused. I wanted to gain some training in minimally invasive surgery. So I came to the United States because I felt there were more opportunities. I think there's two areas in beriatric surgery that really has led to a real advancement in the field. One is uh the understanding of the underlying biology and so I think really understanding those two fields merging the biology with the technology really led to uh a significant adhancement in the field led to safer buriatric procedures and really has uh created better outcomes uh long term. To date we do a lot of sleeve gastroctomies because it a very significant impact on the uh biology of the patient. you have galin down regulation which leads to satiety and the metabolism doesn't slow down as they lose weight and this has an enormous uh impact on safety as well because sleeves are are very safe procedures and they really uh allow patients to safely lose weight and we have uh less uh long-term complications through the minimum invasive uh approach. The most challenging part of uh what I do is probably ensuring that you do everything you can to guide the patient safely through the procedures. Uh I do a lot of beriatric surgery that can be a very challenging patient population. Uh some of them are even on um heart assist devices. Some of them are you know in renal failure and so looking all of those details of their medical complexity to ensure that they go safely through the process. The goal of beriatric surgery is really not right then and there. You're not fixing an immediate problem. You're trying to help patients lose weight to have long-term benefits of longevity, better health, better quality of life. So really uh ensuring that you do everything you can to guide them through that initial peroperative period is uh probably the most challenging aspect. The most rewarding part is uh the long long-term outcomes. Uh seeing patients evolve, seeing patients really getting a second chance on life in many ways. Obesity still have as a social stigma. Uh still is viewed as a personality trait. Uh I think the most rewarding part is the initial conversation where you can tell the patient listen this is 99% biology we can help you uh then really seeing them longterm thrive uh through the process.