So I started off actually as an engineering student with little desire to be a doctor but found the field of epilepsy as someplace to do research and found it fascinating and thought this would be a really cool place to apply engineering. And so really went to medical school with the thought that I was going to become an engineering researcher doing epilepsy research. And lo and behold, I found that I actually enjoyed seeing patients when I was in medical school. I'm Saurabh Sinha. I'm the director of the EEG Laboratories at Penn Medicine. My main focus really is clinical epilepsy in especially patients with hard to control seizures, people who have tried some medications, tried some treatments, and are still not doing well. I mean, epilepsy, certainly, when most of us think about it, including most physicians, the first and foremost thing is the seizures themselves, and certainly that is kind of the cardinal feature or the main feature of the disease. But the reality is for anything that is a chronic condition like epilepsy, there's so much more to it. Everything from associated symptoms like problems with memory or thinking to associated stressors like mood problems, the impact that it has on their daily life from work and school to simple things like driving. So it really is a disease that affects a patient's life and across the breadth of their life. I've had many patients who have had seizures for years, and we have, you know, found the seizure focus and been able to remove it surgically as a way of controlling the seizures. And, you know, while that's wonderful, I honestly think the ones that I'm probably the most proud of are sometimes the patients where they come to you with a very complicated story, a complicated history, and while you don't find the simple solution, you find that you can really optimize their condition, meaning that they come to you on five medications and sometimes by reducing the number of medications, by optimizing what they're on, you can, not necessarily make them seizure free, but you can improve their quality of life tremendously. One of the things that really makes Penn unique is how closely integrated things like imaging, the neuroradiologists, the neuropsychologists, and the EEG and the engineering groups really are. And that collaboration, I think, is really what makes it unique. The imaging technology at Penn has been ahead of the curve for decades. The fact that the neuroradiologists and others are an integral part of our team, actually come to our conference, actually come to discuss cases with us, that, I think, is really what sets this place apart. While certainly I find the patient care and, you know, what I achieve together with the patients really to be rewarding, I think the part that I find the most exciting about this job is that there's so many different aspects to it. Everything from seeing patients in the clinic and taking care of them, to interpreting studies, to the complicated surgeries and that kind of thing, but also, at a place like Penn, you will get to work with researchers, get to work with medical students, residents, fellows. Every day's a little different.