I think epilepsy is a fascinating subspecialty. It’s almost like you have a window into a patient's brain, and the various techniques that we have to investigate these brain waves, and then use that to guide our interventions to patients is pretty remarkable. My name is Ramya Raghupathi, I'm an adult epileptologist at Penn Medicine. We see a lot of patients with seizures, mostly adults. We see patients with new seizures, we see patients with this uncertain diagnosis of seizures. But I think a majority of our population here is patients with refractory seizures, that is patients who failed all of their medication options, who have exhausted the traditional management options that are available for epilepsy, and are now seeing us to see if surgery is a potential option that they could pursue. Every epilepsy patient is different. All their epilepsies are different. I don't think I've seen one patient where you can overlay their symptoms with one another. And I think that's kind of what we do in our epilepsy center. We're providing individualized patient care, following these patients through this complex journey on a very personal level and providing individualized care is what we would aim to strive for, and I think that's what all of us in the epilepsy department do. We have an outstanding team of nurse practitioners, EEG technicians, our nurses, our admin, our support team, our secretaries, I think we all are extremely invested in patient care. But I think one of the biggest strengths - and this probably holds true for most level four centers - is that we have a very strong collaboration with multiple departments. We work very closely with our neurosurgeons, our radiologists, nuclear medicine specialists, our neuropsychologists. So all of these people are all involved in patient care, particularly when we're working up patients for surgery. We have a multi-disciplinary approach to each and every patient. We have several success stories in patients where their seizure burden has significantly improved, they’re seizure-free, they're able to come off medications, we can improve quality of life: simple things like improved memory, or, you know, cognition, driving, employment, all of these social, impactful things, and we have tons of success stories. I love epilepsy, I love interpreting the neurophysiological data. I love working up patients for surgery. Just the continuous fascination about finding something that you don't know, and trying to work towards that, and knowing that doing all this work will somehow change or have an impact on a patient's life, is motivating.