I grew up right next to my grandfather's farm, and growing up we were always fixing things. I think even since I was six years old, I always wanted to be a cardiac surgeon. And when I think back to it, I think it's probably fixing things and knowing how you can use your hands and solve a problem. My name is Chase Brown, and I'm the Surgical Director of Coronary Revascularization at Penn Presbyterian Medical Center. I realized quickly in medical school that you're able to fix the heart and get immediate feedback, so you can leave the operating room and know that you fixed a patient's problem. The focus of my work is on coronary revascularization and advanced techniques in coronary revascularization. The field has developed a lot since the 1960s when the first coronary bypass procedure was done, and that's taking veins or arteries from a part of the body and bypassing obstructions in the heart that cause coronary disease, or angina, or chest pain. What I am able to do is to do advanced techniques where we can do these procedures off the bypass machine, where we don't need to arrest the heart, where we can keep the heart beating while we do the procedure, which lowers complications for the patient, And also using arteries throughout the body, using the arteries in the chest, using the radial artery. These arteries have better patency long-term than if we were just to use veins. One of the other areas of interest is the minimally invasive approaches in coronary artery surgery, which involves using the robot to take down the internal thoracic mammary artery in the chest wall, and then through a small incision on the left side we can complete this procedure without opening the chest. This results in smaller incisions, less pain, quicker recovery, and getting out of the hospital with less complications. When we're deciding on whether or not a patient needs surgery, it's a patient-centered decision and it's shared decision-making. We'll give them their options, and those options will include surgery, stenting, or medical therapy. We'll provide data for each of those options, and then based upon what they would prefer, we can then make a surgical plan, or a medical therapy plan, or a plan where the patient can get stented by their cardiologist. I think the most exciting thing is to take people who are having issues, having chest pain, having shortness of breath with exertion and not living the life that they want, and then seeing them and helping them form a plan where we can fix that.