I didn't pick medicine, but medicine picked me. It was just always something I was supposed to do. When I was little, people asked, "What do you want to be when you grow up?" And I said, "A doctor." And that never changed. Hi, my name is Christina Denty. I'm an obstitrician and gynecologist. And I serve as the medical director of labor and delivery and the mother baby units at Penn Medicine Princeton. In this population that we work with at Princeton, teenagers through post-menopausal women, so really all ages, pregnancy, not pregnant. We take care of fertility patients. We triage and find cancers and make sure that they get to the care that they need. People will come with menstrual irregularities that can impact certain other parts of their health. It can impact their fertility. They will often come to us and want us to act as their primary care provider. Young women don't often go see a primary care doctor and they'll come in with some general complaints that typically a general practitioner would manage that we will take on. So, with obstetrics, it's at least a year, right? We try to see them before they're pregnant, and we carry um the relationship through. Many of our patients stay with us either for multiple pregnancies or as they get older through general gynecology care. Our goal is continuity. I mean, that's the fun part. That's the best part of it to see the familiar faces and see the names that you know on your schedule. Like, that's what you look forward to. I bring a goal of individualized care. I think it's really important to understand what someone's bringing into the room with them. Each person is coming in with their hopes, their dreams, their past traumas, their their fears, their individual experience. And even if every patient is medically exactly the same, what they bring with them in their history is what makes them unique. I love how we have the uh the vibe of a community uh practice and those relationships over time with patients. I love that I can be walking through town and see patients with their babies. We socially know our patients. Our kids go to school together. They play um soccer together. So, you really have this this tight relationship, but when you bring them into the hospital, they are um treated at a tertiary care level where they have all the specialty services that um really support them. The best part of the job is being there. When someone becomes a parent for the first time, it's the most privileged opportunity I have to be there and c, you know, I get to hold their baby first and hand them their baby and just the the emotions and the the transition in their lives and it happens right in front of us and it's amazing and you get to experience that multiple times with some people and that's even more amazing.