It really is the full package of everything that you could want in a career as far as I'm concerned. It's intellectually engaging. It gives you an opportunity to be hands-on and helping other people. And it's incredibly rewarding to have had that experience of coming through something challenging with your patients and getting to be on the other side of it and seeing, you know, in my field the joy on their faces when they actually get pregnant and have a baby. Hi, I'm Christine Skiatis and I am the medical director of Penn Fertility Care at Lancaster General Health here at Penn Medicine. So, as a reproductive endocrinologist, I specialize in the full spectrum of reproductive care including ovulation induction, in vitro fertilization, frozen embryo transfers, fertility preservation, and reproductive surgery. My main focus is seeing couples that have had difficulty getting pregnant or difficulty staying pregnant. I also see some women longer term that have had congenital uterine anomalies, fibroids, or other gynecologic conditions that often overlap with challenges to their fertility. So my main role is to see these women and then their partners as they are trying to achieve a family to try to identify what are the hurdles that they are facing and how can we potentially clear the hurdles from their path and find the best treatment approach to help them to achieve their goal of becoming parents. One of the other areas in our field that is incredibly rewarding is the ability to try to preserve fertility for patients who are facing a cancer diagnosis or a treatment option that may in the future cause them to not be able to get pregnant on their own such that we may need to try to preserve their fertility in advance. I want my patients to know that I really try to think about their care in the context of what their goals are. How many children do they want to have? How do they want to see their family in the future? and what we can do to support their dreams as opposed to any sort of prescription or standardized treatment. That we really try to look at each of our patients as a singular human being and to try to come up with the absolute best treatment option that may be completely unique to their situation.