I've always had a a lot of curiosity. Um, always been interested in science. My father was a physician and my grandfather also, so it sort of runs in the family. I'm Pamela Demniki. I'm a general surgeon at Pen Medicine here at Chester County Hospital. One of my first earliest memories is my father was a pathologist and he would bring slides home and I would look at the slides and I was fascinated by the colors and I asked questions about what I was looking at and he would tell me what he was doing at work and um then I just progressed from there. I was a biology major and became interested in anatomy and physiology and during my medical school training in third year I did my surgical rotation and just loved it and uh was fascinated by everything they were doing in the operating room. One of the things that I find myself having to explain sometimes is what is a general surgeon do? Um because we do a lot of different things as general surgeons mainly focusing on GI surgery. We do a lot of colon surgery for diverticulitis, for colon cancer, but we also take care of hernas and we take out gallbladders and we do emergency surgery through the emergency room. One of the important things that I stress to patients is that uh we offer advanced techniques for surgery for GI surgery uh right here in Chester County. so they can get the same uh advanced minimally invasive techniques that would be available through the pen system right here closer to home. There are some procedures that we do that people um maybe have for a while a condition such as a hernia that they've known about for a while but they're hesitant to get it fixed because of the recovery time. And what we can offer them now through robotics is a shorter recovery time so that once we explain that to them they can be less hesitant about having the surgery and get back to work sooner. I think people hear the term robotic surgery and they have this misperception that the robot's doing the surgery. That's not the case at all. Uh it's still me at at the operating room table placing all the instruments. It's still me making all the incisions, but they're much smaller incisions, and the robot allows me to get into very small spaces and do big operations through those small incisions. What I really value and the way I approach patients in general is I put myself in their place and I treat patients the way I would want to be treated. Surgery often times is a very stressful situation for patients to go through. So I try to be mindful of that and just treat them with kindness and respect. I really like working at Chester County Hospital because I find that everybody at our hospital from the surgeons to the people mopping the floors and bringing your tray and the nurses are amazing nurses. They treat people with kindness. It's not just the mechanics and the technical aspects of care, but it's the kindness and the human touch that really makes a big difference. The best part of my job is my patients just having their gratitude. And you know, sometimes patients will give you a hug and they just are so grateful. And I think that really is very rewarding when you know that you've made a big difference in a patient's life. Maybe they've had some problem that that they've been fighting for a long time and you're able to come and and fix it for them and have it be done and it really changes their life. Um or they come into the emergency room with an emergency problem that I can fix and so you you know literally save their lives and that's amazing. So, I think that's the most rewarding part of my job.