I was in college at Duke and I was studying health policy and what I kept on getting drawn back to was the patient stories and the impact of medicine and health interventions on the patients and so I thought the policy is interesting but the patients are really where I think fulfillment is. So I decided to pivot from health policy and instead go into medicine. Hi my name is Kate O'Neal and I'm a pen fertility care specialist here at Penn Medicine. I am a physician scientist in reproductive medicine. So I see patients clinically who are undergoing fertility preservation, fertility treatment and then I also on the research side focus on the endometrium, the inner lining of the uterus and what happens when it goes right and the lining builds and what happens when it does not go right and the lining does not build or the lining builds too much. So really focusing my lab efforts on the endometrium and endometrial regeneration and on the clinical side I focus on uterus transplant and on infertility. We started our uterus transplant program in 2016 and our first transplant was November 2018. We had thousands of women apply to be recipients and we actually had a number of women unsolicited step forward to be uterus donors, living donors. But at the time we were only doing deceased donor uterus transplants. And then after the first two uterus transplants were successful, we decided well maybe you know there's more information about living donor. We felt more comfortable. So we decided to open a living donor program also. And so we had to reach back out to all those people and say thank you so much for reaching out a year or two ago. Are you still interested in donating your uterus? And many of them were and so and we started considering living donors too. The best part of my job is calling patients that are trying to get pregnant and telling them that they are actually pregnant. That or doing an ultrasound and showing them they're developing baby for the first time. I've been doing this for 20 years and I still get that same rush every time I call them and I hear that excitement in their voice or I see the look on their face and sometimes tears. But I would say the other best part of my job is being able to be there with patients when they are really at low points and being able to be some sort of solace. Don't try to take away whatever feelings they're experiencing or the grief that they're experiencing cuz not all of the calls are happy. I think that is also something that gives me a lot of fulfillment. I not only trained at Penn and am now a provider at Penn, but I also went through fertility treatment at Penn. I think that that really has shaped the way that I treat patients and I think it's also important to talk about because there is a lot of stigma about infertility, but I want to take that away. And so I tell my patients, not only, you know, have I've treated a lot of patients like you, but I've also been one of those patients. So, I know what it's like to feel out of control and kind of trust your provider and hope for the best. And I'm going to give you the best.