(upbeat music) - My name is Florencia Greer Polite. I'm the Chief of the Division of General Obstetrics and Gynecology here at Penn Medicine. I'm from a family of teachers, mainly, and I've found that teaching is still my passion in medicine, whether that's teaching patients, teaching medical students, or teaching residents. I view the patient encounters as an opportunity for me to share with the patients what my medical knowledge is, and then for us together to come up with a plan of care for the patient. I often draw pictures for patients to try to explain a medical concept, and they appreciate the effort to get them to be able to be equal participants in their medical care. As a clinician in the Department of General Obstetrics and Gynecology, I see patients in the office for both obstetrics and gynecology issues. I deliver babies on Labor and Delivery, and I perform surgeries, both inpatient and outpatient surgeries. I chose to be a general obstetrician and gynecologist simply because I love the full spectrum of obstetrics and gynecology. The really young patients who have a tremendous world ahead of them, and helping them choose the method of contraception that will allow them to be full participants in their own lives, and the couple who's super excited about being parents, and then the end-of-life, so the patients who are menopausal or who need surgery because they've had a particular issue. Personally I find obstetrics and gynecology to be the most rewarding specialty, that's why I went into it. I always joke that if I did not have to work, I would still come to work every single day. I view this as my passion. It's a talent that I get to share with patients, and it's an incredibly rewarding experience. I always tell patients, "You're probably gonna deliver "two or three babies, and we've delivered thousands." But our goal is to make those two or three experiences really magical, and ones that they wanna come back to Penn Med and have a baby every single time. (gentle music)