In one of the like summer of high school, I kind of shadowed one of my dad's friends. He was a plastic surgeon and I like enjoyed it so much. I was like, you know, dead sure that I'm going to be an architect like my dad and my mom. Uh but then after like I got this summer of like of shadowing, I said like this is it. This is what I uh want to be. I'm No. I'm gynecologic ancologist and the surgical director of the living donor uterus transplant at Pen Medicine. I'm a gynecologic ancologist. So we take care of patient with gynecologic cancers um like ovarian cancer, cervical cancer. I do a lot of surgeries with those cancers. I also administer chemotherapy. I have a focus and interest in doing more radical and complex uh surgeries and do more innovative surgeries. I think most patient come with a lot of anxiety not knowing what's what's next or they know some information but they have a lot of questions and our responsibility and my responsibility like as a gynecologic oncologist is first to like absorb that anxiety first and try to understand like where they're coming from at the same time uh can help them through the process and guide them through like essentially what is the problem like how we're going to treat this and what is the next step and what is the next two three steps. So I'm this like balance between giving them all the information they need but not overwhelm them right away because they are already coming with a lot of anxiety from the unknown. The one thing that I like to share with my patient is I focus a lot on the quality of life. So beside doing the best surgery or giving the best treatment chemotherapy or something else the goal of the of the care is not to just to treat the cancer or treat the disease but also give them the best quality of life they aspire to. I think what differentiate pen is that there is no silos between fields of medicine. There's a good collaboration between different fields and the idea that you want to innovate and you want to push the science and medicine forward is very ingrained in the DNA here at Penn. I'm one of the PI one of the principal investigators for uterus transplant. I'm the living donor director for the uterus transplant program. We all believe and we want to do good in this world. But when you meet the living donor candidates and the actual living donor, they are very unique humans. I would say their interest in helping others is above and beyond. And I have to take that responsibility in a way that make sure that they are well informed about the surgery itself, the complexity of it, how complex, how radical, how extensive the surgery is, but also how their recovery will be. And also at the end of it like when you see like how the recipient and the donor will meet it just like you know brighten your day like when you see like that like student like how you have like you know through this work and through their altruistic like interest in helping others like you have like a new family that like you know started