I wanted to have that bond with my patients where I feel like I'm helping them in in a time of need and that they're trusting with their life. Hello, my name is Mariel Tier and I'm a minimally invasive and buriatric surgeon at Pen Medicine. I always wanted to become a doctor. Um I was actually exposed to medicine and surgery at a very young age. My mother was a surgeon in Bulgaria. She was a single mother and I often after s after after school I'll go and stay with her and I just saw the appreciation between her and the patients and that I feel like that bond was sacred that she was helping them and it's one of the things that we uh like that I wanted to do as well minimally invasive surgery includes gallbladders hernas for gut appendicitis mobile bowel resection and in terms of buriatric surgery that is weight loss surgery. Our beriatric practice at uh Penn Medicine uh is a comprehensive center for treatment of obesity and we offer not only surgery but also other modalities for treatment of obesity such as uh medications, diet and exercise advice as well as endoscopic procedures. I see patients throughout the Philadelphia region. I I see patients at Radner as well as downtown at Pennsylvania Hospital. And so when we talk about an approach to weight loss with a patient, we have to consider the whole patient as well as their expectation of weight loss. Patients who suffer from obesity also can suffer from many obesity related coorbidities such as high blood pressure, type 2 diabetes, obstructive sleep apnnea, reflux amongst others. And many of these if not resolved, they can at least improve after obesity surgery. So who qualifies for endoscopic procedures? So patients who are lower BMI, BMI 30 to50 uh who are not interested in surgery uh into more invasive approaches and also um those that are too high risk for surgery as well. For patients with suffering from very high BMI, I would recommend surgery. Uh and while medications is an option um ultimately to achieve their goals, surgery might might be the best treatments for my weight loss patients when they return. Uh it's not just about the weight loss, it's also about resolution of coorbidities. Uh they're not taking any more medications or or they're taking less medication than usually. Uh their quality of life is much improved. Here we have a very long-lasting relationship with our patients where we follow them up for the rest of their life to make sure that they have the ultimate success from the surgery. And it is important to have a provider who understands what they're going through and also who is going to be advocating for them for life.