- Oftentimes, I get asked why did I wanna become a doctor? I'm a little bit unusual, I think, because I knew I wanted to be a doctor from the time I was a really young child. So my entire life, I worked toward this goal of becoming a physician. I never had a bad memory of going to the doctor as a kid, and so, in my mind, begin a doctor meant that you were someone who could help people. My name's Doctor Holly Cummings. I'm an obstetrician gynecologist at Penn Medicine. I help take care of women across their entire reproductive lifespan. I help people who are not thinking about getting pregnant or who are thinking about getting pregnant. I help people manage their abnormal bleeding and abnormal periods. I help people transition into menopause. I really also really enjoy working with breastfeeding mothers. While it's totally natural and healthy, it's also something that people need a lot of help doing. I really enjoy helping people meet their breastfeeding goals. One of the things I'm really interested in is helping patients who don't identify as women and help them become more comfortable in their bodies. There are a variety of new treatments coming out to the market to help people manage heavy periods and painful periods. Traditionally, surgery can be very invasive, but there are lots of new techniques coming out that help us do minimally invasive surgery and help patients heal faster. The best part of my job is working with patients on a one-on-one basis and coming up with individual treatment plans for them. I love that I go from one room to another, meet a patient with individual needs and personal desires and I get to tailor my care to what that person needs and then I go to the next room and somebody might have a completely different situation, but yet, I'm still able to offer everything that patient needs as well. It's absolutely a perfect marriage between creativity and science. I try and keep abreast of all the possible options out there and present them to the patients and help them make the choices that work best for them. (gentle piano music)