I knew I wanted to be a surgeon at a very early age. I was inspired by my father, who had undergone four previous surgeries on his abdomen. There was a time when the picture was looking pretty bleak for us, and he was operated on by the chief of general surgery at a local hospital at a big university locally, and he was able to turn everything around for him. That's how I remember him and he sort of inspired me along those lines. My name is Ali Ozturk. I'm a neurosurgeon. I'm the co-director of the Complex Spine Fellowship and the director of the Scoliosis and Adult Spinal Deformity at Penn Medicine. I knew I loved working with my hands, but the delicacy of neurosurgery and the stakes sort of drew me to it. I mainly focus on adult spinal deformity and scoliosis surgery. Deformities are very complex problems. These tend to be very big surgeries, so it's very important to have an experienced surgeon and team and hospital to take care of these patients. They can and should be really done in very specialized centers and we take a lot of pride in that as a team. I see patients who suffer from either scoliosis or sagittal imbalance, meaning that the patient tends to lean forward. That can be result of prior surgeries, or it could just come about with natural aging and advanced arthritis. These are extremely debilitating conditions. Many patients have had surgeries before, oftentimes smaller surgeries that didn't attain the desired result, and they're left with absolutely debilitating pain, and we try to restore them to their quality of life. It's a lot to go through, but they're my happiest patients. One patient, he had undergone seven previous spine surgeries and was left in a debilitating state of what many would call a failed back syndrome, meaning his back was beyond repair. He was extremely addicted to narcotic medication and lived his life in constant pain. We were able to revise him. It was a difficult operation. We redid the fusion, revised the instrumentation. It was a tough recovery. Controlling his pain postoperatively, especially in patients who are not naive to narcotic medication, can be hard. Seeing him in six months afterwards, he was completely pain free and had quit all of his prior medication and was back to work. It was an incredible turnaround. It's why we do what we do.