I wanted to be a doctor since I was a kid. I always liked the idea of helping people. There is really something satisfying of saying, "Look, I was able to fix this for you." And somebody coming to you and saying, "Wow, you really did. That's amazing. Thank you so much." You live on that. I think in medicine, the idea of really connecting with people and helping them feel better. Hi, I'm Monica Samoy. I'm a gastronurologist here at Penn Medicine Princeton. I think GI is one of the most interesting of all the specialties. Not just because I chose it, but because we have so many organs that we treat. Like as a gastronologist, I have the esophagus, the stomach, the liver, the pancre. Like I have so much that I can treat. We're really lucky that we have all those little subsp specialties that we can do. So as a therapeutic endoscopist, my subniches are weight management, so endoscopic procedures for weight loss. Then there's a lot of the motility procedures where muscles are not working well particularly in the esophagus or in the stomach that we're trying to improve emptying so people are you know able to eat better looking for problems in the pancreas unfortunately diagnosing pancreatic cancer also removing early stage cancers. The thing that we can do to impact society the most is colon cancer screening and really trying to decrease those numbers as much as possible. There is a group of us in this hospital which is wonderful that try to treat patients with obesity from a multi-pety perspective. So you may see a medical weight management specialist, you might see a surgeon, you might see an endoboariatric specialist like myself for methods to try and help people get the tools they need for weight loss. So there are two main endoscopic buriatric procedures that we are doing. There is something called the intergastric balloon and there's something called the endoscopic sleeve gastroplasty which is kind of suturing the stomach. As a physician, our main question is what is the problem? How do we find the diagnosis? I think for me what's even more important is to explain to a patient what I'm thinking. We work through it together is trying to figure out what is the best thing I can do to help a patient. They understand why I'm doing what I'm doing. That's the nice thing I I really like about GI. we kind of can see so many different things. It's not all just one. It's really so many different aspects. Your gut is such an integral part of what you do. Your stomach really is that kind of little extra voice that kind of really connects to everything in your body. That's why you have so many little aspects of GI that I think are are fascinating.