as a support person. The first time we got his diagnosis of methyloma, we were shocked and scared, you know, cuz we never knew what it was, never heard of it. I was diagnosed accidentally in 2000 2006. I lost my my right lung and that's why I'm here today to tell you this story. One of the new things in the Plural Center is that we've hired a um a person that serves as our patient navigator. And I think that's going to be a tremendous help for both the referring physicians and for the patients. When I first meet a patient, I say, "Hi, I'm Karen Mudriick." I let them know that I'm the patient navigator for the program and that I'm the lelays on between the medical team and them. So if they have any questions at all, they know that I'm here. They know that I'm here to support them and their family members throughout this difficult journey. Many of the patients that we see have already been diagnosed with misotheloma and have been directed to us by other physicians or find us on their own. Uh the uh the other instance may be patients who have not had a diagnosis yet and have had uh fluid occur in their lung that's been sampled many times and and yet the diagnosis still can't be diagnosis of misotheloma still can't be made in which case it's up to us to to figure that out and and make the diagnosis if it's there. And that's that's something that we're very good at. This is a really unique program uh uh in this country. The PEN plural program um is a multiddisciplinary program which means that there's a group of doctors who get together and see each patient and then share their expertise and make decisions about what's the best treatment for a patient and then once they do this in this multiddisciplinary setting where all the expertise are put together they meet with the patient and they talk about these options and then have a discussion about what's the best treatment and the patient has then a choice about how to proceed. The program is a true multid-disciplinary program. It brings in specialists from surgery, medical oncology, radiation oncology, pulmonary medicine, gene therapy. We have nurses, pathologists, radiologists, psychiatrists, physical therapists. Basically, every potential medical or medically related specialty that could be of benefit to these patients are brought together and we have a weekly conference where we actually meet and go over all these cases. is we go over the patients, we discuss them and try and come up with all the potential ways we can help each patient. What we have at Penn, which is different and is now starting to be adopted more, is doing lung sparing surgery. I think the one of the things that sets us apart from others is I think we really put since this is a cancer without a known cure at this point, we put quality of life on on equal footing with our the benefit of the treatment. the patients are given all the treatment options including the standard surgery, radiation, um chemotherapy, but we've been able to develop a clinical trial that is a new treatment for basically every type of patient that comes in. So virtually any patient that comes in has access to a clinical trial if they want to. We are increasingly looking at ways to determine whether patients would respond to certain types of treatment. Dr. Dr. Albda in his laboratory and my colleagues in pulmonary medicine are looking at signatures within the tumor cells that tell doctors whether or not certain chemotherapeutics agents will be more likely to work or less likely to work. Ultimately, we hope this will be better for the patients in term of less toxicity and better response to the therapy. We also have people who are looking at genetics of methyloma to help with a signature so that perhaps we can even make diagnosis simpler. Right now to make a diagnosis you often have to do an open surgical biopsy or a minimally invasive biopsy which still requires general anesthesia and an incision. Ultimately we hope to help provide the entire worldwide methyloma community the ability to take a genetic signature from a peripheral blood cell or perhaps from some fluid we would take with a small needle and determine whether or not that patient had meathyloma. Those types of technologies are being developed every day at pen medicine. misotheloma of the paranneeium is cancer within the abdominal lining wall and on the intestinal organs. Um and so it can happen primarily there as opposed to in the chest. Uh and the treatment seems to be um uh different for the two uh types of cancers. for the parinal misotheloma. Um it's found that using an an aggressive cyto reductive surgery approach where we reduce the tumor burden uh within the abdomen combining it with interparal chemotherapy uh that's heated uh provides good uh long-term uh outcomes in patients with this disease. When you do surgery for misotheloma, you have to combine it with something else to get the microscopic or invisible disease that you know is always going to be there after even the most aggressive surgery. The photonamic therapy we do intraoperatively as are something else. When you kill a cell with photodnamic therapy, it turns out that you can induce a systemic immune response. It can basically serve as a primer for other treatments. And that's hugely exciting to me. What's coming down the road in terms of treatment with misotheloma is the introduction of proton therapy in the Roberts proton therapy center which is another component of the department in the Abramson cancer center. And proton therapy um we think will reduce the dose to normal tissues by about 50 to 70%. which if you think about it will not only allow us to potentially decrease the side effects of patients because if you don't treat the normal tissue you're not going to get side effects but also will allow us to escalate the dose to tumors. You know right on top of the proton therapy center, the radiation department and where the chemotherapy suites are. Our very world famous researchers who do cancer research and are really in the laboratory trying to develop these treatments that we then put into the clinic. they're going to be close by and so we're going to be able to have this interaction which is very very special that will allow us to apply the advances that they make in basic science and take it to the clinic and give patients the advantage of the latest and most advanced technologies and treatments. The big area that we're developing now is to stimulate a patient's own immune system to attack the tumor. And we do that in combination with either chemotherapy and or surgery. The idea is that the tumor is almost like a foreign transplanted organ, but it works to hide itself. And these approaches actually stimulate the body's immune system to recognize the tumor as foreign and reject it just like you would reject a transplanted kidney if it was given to you without knocking down your immune system. uh everybody that works there, everybody from the receptionist all the way to the, you know, nutrition people, the doctors, nurses, they all treat, you know, the patient and the family as as family because it's they they they treat you as a person, not as in number. If there is a life, there is a hope. And when you see the light come out every day and when you wake up, it's another day. Don't worry about the next day. worry about that day and go on with your life. I feel real good what they done. Very pleased with Dr. Freeberg and his staff. I try to keep myself busy. I enjoy life. I I don't take anything for granted. I'm still here.