If you're one of the 37 million Americans who suffer from migraines, you know how frustrating it can be to get one, and even more so, to hear the misconceptions that people have about them. I'm Dr. Jeff Millstein with Penn Medicine, and today, we're going to find out what's fact and what's fiction when it comes to migraines. Migraines can bring on a number of symptoms including difficulty speaking, constipation or diarrhea, fatigue, dizziness or vertigo, and the one that leads us to our first myth - headaches. Myth 1: A migraine is just a bad headache. Though many people believe it, this one is FICTION! A bad headache is just one of many possible symptoms of a migraine attack. Migraine attacks can actually occur with no headache at all, which is known as a "silent" migraine. Migraines exist in four possible phases and the headache comes in phase 3. However, it IS possible to have a migraine without ever getting a headache. In fact, in order for a doctor to diagnose a migraine, you must have symptoms outside of just a headache. Myth 2: Migraines can last for multiple days. Unfortunately, this one is a FACT. In children, migraines typically last about an hour, but for adults, it could be anywhere from a few hours to more than three days. If you suffer from migraines, your primary care doctor may be able to prescribe medication to ease your pain. If your symptoms persist for longer than 72 hours, you should seek immediate medical attention. Myth 3: Migraines are caused by psychological factors like stress, anxiety and depression. It's widely believed, but this one is FICTION! While the cause of migraines isn't fully understood, we do know that migraines are a neurological condition, not a psychological one. Migraines are caused by a dysfunction in the nervous system that causes your brain's blood vessels to narrow, then expand, creating a pulsing pain that many people associate with a headache. Studies have also found that migraines tend to run in families, pointing to a hereditary factor with this condition. Stress can certainly play a role in triggering a migraine, but it is not the cause. Some known triggers include things like overexposure to certain noises, smells, or light, weather patterns, and changes in your sleep schedule. If you suffer from migraines, you can talk to your primary care provider about ways to manage your symptoms. To learn more about Penn Primary Care, visit our website... and stay healthy out there!