There's a peacefulness when you're playing of being out in nature. Golf is where you turn your cell phone off and you just focus on the next thing. When I first started playing golf, like I loved walking, but then I found that, you know, my mobility wasn't wasn't as good. The pain was was getting worse. And then it got to the point where I couldn't go hiking, couldn't play golf. I couldn't do the things that I like doing. In college, I play three sports. I tore my ACL for the first time playing softball. Came back and played and tore my ACL a second time and tore my miniscus my junior year and then I had a couple more arthoscopic surgeries. In 2013, I had an osteotomy and then a year ago I had a knee replacement and a couple months after it I started getting severe pain behind my knee. It felt like there was a rubber band snapping on my skin every time my hamstring was firing. So going upstairs was painful, bending was painful. We tried everything from cupping to manual release maneuvers, ultrasound, you name it, we tried it. It was depressing to think when you're going to therapy for two, three hours a day and you're doing everything you can to try to recover from this. As humans, we always think our brain can control our body and that if you just have a positive attitude and work like things will things will heal, things will get better. And it really brought to light that no matter what I was doing, I wasn't I wasn't getting any better. And as soon as I went to Dr. Marino, the first thing he did was ask questions and listen and really try to get to the heart of what was going on. >> We definitely use a comprehensive approach when we're trying to understand what is ailing our patients. And for Steph, how do we figure out starting with physical exam where this pain is coming from? making sure that we have all of those components from her history, from her story that are uh giving us clues or insight as to when it's bothering her and how it's really impacting her life. And so once he did a physical exam, that's when he said, "You know what? I think we're going to bring an ultrasound." And you know, couple minutes later, the ultrasound machine's coming in. He moved my legs. He showed me, you know, where the tendons and where the muscles and the bones were. And he pointed out the issue. So you you not only were trusting that this guy knows what he's doing, but he showed you visually and really explained it well. >> Is where this quad tendon connects down onto the kneecap. And >> I think for any patient that makes you feel a lot more confident and and comfortable. So Dr. Mareno laid out the options. He said, "I could go and get opened up again, have a have a scope." He said, "I could continue just try to do physical therapy and hope it would get better on its own." Or the other option was this procedure called the 10X procedure. >> 10X is a minimally invasive device that can be used to remove pathologic tissue from tendons. We actually use two different types of ultrasound. One helps us see the tissue. And then the other device uses ultrasound waves to break down the scar tissue or diseased tissue that's within that tendon. and then at the same time it removes it. All of that's done through a very small incision only about three millimeters. It doesn't require any sutures and heals very nicely and because of that lowers the risk of infection. There was no pain. Um it wasn't uncomfortable. It was just an odd sensation. You know, I think anytime you can have something done that improves your life that doesn't hurt during and doesn't hurt after is is awesome. The next day I woke up and the pain was gone. It I mean it was it was unbelievable because the recovery was very easy. I remember going downstairs the first day after the procedure and not having pain for the first time. And now I've been able to do things that I haven't done probably in 15 years. I jog a little when I go out for a walk with my dog. You know, I throw the ball and chase her in the yard without worrying about falling on my face. I mean, it really has improved her life, too. When I walked 18 holes of golf, I was really proud. My original plan was to walk the first nine holes and get a cart for the next nine. And then I got to 10 and thought, I'm going to see how far I can go. You know, I'm thrilled for Steph and that she's able to get out there and uh hopefully her golf game is going well. you know, she hasn't asked me out to the links yet, but maybe someday soon. But really helping our patients succeed and seeing them return to the things that they love, that keeps us going. There are times where I'm still pinching myself that this has happened. You know, it makes such a difference in your life.