ktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktktkt So as really the only program in the region that has a mobile capability, we can go to any hospital anytime and offer ECMO as a bridge to recovery for patients with ARDS. Our equipment is like custom made. It is designed by a military supplier. It's basically a mobile operating room. You go sequentially through. It has ample supplies for any emergency situation that we've encountered in the last 10 years. Us being able to bring our level of ICU care to them really expands access to all patients. We get calls from any direction, local, regional. Usually they're in like dire situation. Being able to offer this 24-7, while it requires a significant amount of resources and effort, it's the only way to really run the program. We're not a big, diffuse group of people who do this a little bit. We're a smaller group that does this a lot and has a high, high level of expertise. We are always looking at the evidence and how we can implement that in a system-wide fashion so that we deliver the highest level of care for any sort of disease. Over time, we've improved our techniques and we've been able to offer additional programs, including right heart support. Putting them from our VV ECMO platform onto an RVAD has been a linchpin of helping patients survive. Giving some additional cardiac support has been a really amazing option for helping to wake patients up. We try to start lightening their sedation as soon as we feel like it's safe. You try to hold your head up a little bit. There you go. We try to get patients awake and interactive, working towards improving their recovery. How about a wave? Look at that. She's looking smiling. If these patients can't recover, then we have this backup plan. We have an incredible team of transplant surgeons and transplant pulmonologists. We get them involved very early, so we have an option of last resort. There's just this unwillingness to give up. Are you angry as she's walking? Yeah, Bree. Taking care of these patients has really educated me, as I've learned from them, that it's not over until it's over. We have an incredible concentration of talent here that allows us to, you know, run a program like this. Because it's not just about the machine. The machine is just a device that we use to stabilize the patient. To actually recover them, you need a team that works together cohesively on this and understanding the mission that time matters. We spend a lot of time looking at our patient outcomes and trying to figure out how we can improve our care for the next patient that comes through the door. I think for all of us, this is something that we've decided is important and worthwhile. And so while it's a sacrifice for us, it's also something that we're willing to do. Because when they have no other options, you know, you are the lifeline. Our motivation is not to do more ECMO. Our motivation is to help save people. A friend of mine once told me, your scars are someone else's hope. That is what ECMO is to me, hope. Go! We are happy to get a call and help you keep an eye on them together. So if you reach the point that you need our help, we'll be ready.