Welcome everyone to the Penn Primary Care podcast. I'm your host Dr. Kendall Williams. So, as of August 1st, there were over 4600 cases of monkey pox in the United States, over a hundred in both New Jersey and Pennsylvania each. It is a condition that we are going to start seeing in our primary care practices. And if you're like me, you don't know much about it. So the monkey pox virus is not a new virus, but it's new to us and we quite rapidly need to get ourselves up to speed. So I put together a bit of an emergency podcast, looked for expertise within the pen community, and we have actually truly international expertise within the pen community, and we're happy to have it on the program today. So Dr. Stuart Issacs is an associate professor of medicine at Penn and a member of the division of infectious diseases. He is an international expert on viral diseases, specifically pox viruses, and maintains a lab studying pox viruses. He did his undergraduate at Brandeise Medical School at Yale, internal medicine residency at Temple and ID fellowship at TUS and the NIH. Stu, thanks for coming on. Kendall, thanks for inviting me. I really look forward to this conversation. And with us again is Dr. Anne Norris. She is an associate professor of clinical medicine at Penn and a member of the division of infectious diseases. An did medical school at Temple before residency at Pennsylvania Hospital and ID fellowship at Penn. Ann's podcast that she did with us on summer fever and Lyme disease was so popular that I asked Ann to come back and join us for this one as well. Ann, thanks for coming. Thanks Kendall. So let's start with the basic question. Stu, I'll throw this to you. Tell us a little bit about monkeypox, the history of the virus and what it is. Yeah. So monkey pox is in the same family of the virus that's most notorious and that's smallox. So smallox was a human disease that was caused by a virus called varola virus. And that virus over centuries killed billions of people in epidemic and pandemics. And it was in the late in the 1960s when the World Health Organization began an intensified program to eradicate smallpox. and and smallox was the first and only disease currently totally eradicated. So naturally occurring small pox doesn't occur. But it was really during this time when small pox was being eradicated that another pox virus was causing human disease and it was caused by a virus that was named monkey pox. Now the name monkey pox is really a misnomer similar to the cowpox virus that Jenner is credited as using as the first vaccine that was used to prevent smallpox. So like cowpox is not a cowspecific virus. It's actually a virus that's in rodents and then as a zooinosis it would jump and infect cows and the first disease was seen in cows and so people back then called it cowpox but it's actually a rodent virus and so similarly cowpox could incidentally infect humans and they would be called said to have cowpox as as the disease. So monkey pox is very similar in that the first animals the disease was noted in were monkeys actually monkeys in research labs in in Europe. And so the disease was first found in monkeys and got the name monkey pox. But the actual animals where the virus hides out in and continues to grow and incidentally infect humans is rodent species in Africa. So that's the history of monkey pox. So variola viruses are different than vicella viruses but they have some common features right in terms of sort of a vicicular formation and so forth. Yeah. So and just to mention you know so chickenpox which is caused by varicella virus is a you know that's a herpes virus and which is a very different type of virus causes a different disease a a a disease that hides out in neurons and can reactivate and it has the name of chickenpox but it's not a virus like smallpox or monkey pox which are acute viral infections that uh do not have a dormant state and can reoccur. So monkey pox is really the first virus that we probably as American physicians have seen since smallox that's in this category. Right. Yeah. Yeah. That and you know interestingly the US was actually the first country out of Africa where monkey pox caused disease. And this was back in 2003, probably before you began your podcast days, when some exotic animals were imported from Africa to be distributed as pets. And when they were in a distribution center, those exotic animals, which included something called a Gambian giant rat, which some people find very interesting to have as a pet, those animals turned out to be carrying monkey pox. and they were either co-housed or too closely housed or not really treated in a sanitary condition where they came in contact with prairie dogs which are also animals that people use as pets. And it turns out the prairie dogs turned out to be very susceptible to monkey pox. And the prairie dogs got sick when were distributed to people and the prairie dogs infected a whole host of people in the upper Midwest. About 74 cases of suspected or confirmed monkey pox occurred during that outbreak in 2003 and almost all the cases were associated with contact with sick prairie dogs. there was not this humanto human transmission that we're seeing now with this this current global outbreak of of monkey pox. Has there been humanto human transmission in Africa? Yeah. So you know humanto human transmission you know so the initial infection is a zooonautic where someone comes in contact with a sick an animal may but not always sick but an animal carrying monkey pox and they get the they become the primary case and in Africa humanto human spread was most would h if it happened would happen within the household people living together sharing meals together sh sleeping potentially in the same dead. And so humanto human transmission did occur, but the chain would quickly end. You know, most commonly a primary case would give a secondary case. Very rarely the secondary case would give a a tertiary case and and the outbreak would then end very quickly because it was not spreading personto person. So this experience is even different than what has historically happened in Africa where you have an outbreak that seems to be growing to a greater degree than the African experience. Is am I hearing that correctly? Totally. And I always say this has been unprecedented. Many would not have predicted this type of global spread. And you know it has been out of Africa. There's been cases where people get sick, get exposed and infected in Africa, then travel through by plane or other means and show up in a country and are diagnosed with monkey pox. But then there hasn't been transmissions in those cases over the last decade or two. And so this this outbreak has been totally unprecedented and the mode of transmission appears you know to be different or not as described in historical cases in Africa. So something happened to the virus itself you know so unlike so we're all familiar with SARS KB2 the cause of COVID which is an RNA virus RNA viruses replicate quickly do not really care that much about the fidelity of their replication and therefore make mistakes. And you know as a novel corona virus it was the perfect laboratory experiment where this virus just grew hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people infected. It was mutating and has continued to mutate and found a way to increase its ability to spread. The the pox viruses are DNA viruses. So a totally different type of virus and it replicates using more higher fidelity or or DNA polymerases that are more careful and don't make as many mistakes. But that's not to say there won't be mistakes made and especially in this unprecedented humanto human transmission there could be some mutations happening. Now I it it's really not clear if the mutations that are we're seeing in the virus are the explanation for why it's spreading to the extent that it's spreading today or if the mode of transmission and the the community that it's in and spreading in is is has just found the right niche to uh to continue to spread. And that's not to say it won't continue to spread outside of that community. So, let's talk about the outbreak itself because you're you're alluding to it. How did it start? Where are we at with it? And so forth. Yeah, we're going to have to learn a lot more because the initial description and the first identification was just in May of 2022. So just a couple of months ago, you know, the odds are that this had been happening even prior to this and just was going undetected because it was, you know, presenting in a way that may not have looked like classical monkey pox, the disease that, you know, people would see in textbooks that describe the the disease in Africa. So there was a good chance that this has been brewing for a longer period of time. And the community that it's been identified in and has continued to be the the largest community where it's spreading is is in men who have sex with men. And the transmissions are occurring through very close intimate contact. need not be sexual contact because it could occur from very close skin-to-skin contact and introduction of the virus through like microabbrasions in the skin. And then in that community having a number of different partners have kind of allowed this this virus to continue to spread and that's how and so the of the 4600 cases in the US most so far are confined to that community. Is that right? Right. Yeah. That the very high percentage at n 98% are male. Yeah. 98% are males and of the of the information that the CDC has collected and and 94% of the 98% identify as having men who have sex with men. And you know, we all have this experience with COVID, which was, you know, 2% mortality when it first came out. And there was great fear. We were seeing coffins or not trucks lined up outside of New York emergency departments to handle the the death to hole. We, you know, we're not seeing that with monkey pucks, right? So far, as I understand it, nobody has died of monkey pox. Slight correction. So, and also to step back a little historically. So, it turns out there are two clades of monkey pox, naturally occurring monkey pox in Africa. There's a central African strain which we're now we're calling caid one. And the central African strain of monkey pox is is a virus that we know has a higher virulence at least in central Africa has about a 10% mortality. There's a another clay of virus out of West Africa which we call clay 2 and we're fortunate if fortunate can be used as a word to describe a unprecedented worldwide outbreak that the virus that's spreading is a virus that came out of West Africa and it's a less virilent at most 1% mortality in in West Africa and in the US there's been no deaths from from in during this current outbreak. Although in two countries outside of Africa, I I believe there's been two cases, one in one in Brazil and one in Spain. I don't know any of the details of of those other than one of the cases was in an imunosuppressed or imunompromised patient. And I understand you've seen cases of monkey pox. So I'm going to now direct my questioning to you in terms of the clinical features. How do these patients present? Well, I have to say, Kendall, as a clinician seeing these cases, this has been fascinating. Just just riveting as an infectious diseases doctor. I'm literally learning about a disease that is unfolding before us in a in a way that, you know, we've never seen before. Kind of like COVID, but a much less severe disease where I don't have to change my clothes in the garage before I go inside to see my family. you know, I'm less terrified of this disease. We have treatments. We have a vaccine. So, and and it it it's it has become I mean, I'm sure I'm going to see lots of variations on it, but it has become a you know it when you see it. And and it largely looks exactly like the pictures in the books and the pictures online. So classically and by that I mean the 2003 outbreak and the outbreak inbreaks in Africa monkey pox is said to start with a prodrome with you know a febal prod with fever headache lympadinopathy myalgia followed by the appearance of the rash in the current outbreak often the first sign is the rash you'll get a a message from a patient saying I have a couple of pimples on my body do I need to come in and typically What uh patients experience is uh lesions start as a macule that's maybe 2 to 5 millimeters in size that evolves into a papule and then maybe a vesicle or postul. They're deepseated lesions. They often become umbilicated and and they often, you know, if you look people over carefully, you'll find a lesion that looks just like the lesions that have been described. True pox lesions. They're often painful. Patients have been admitted for pain control because these illusions can be so painful. We see them in the genitals very commonly peranally on the scrotum on the penis and we see them on the extremities and potentially on the face and and some on the trunk. The lesions eventually crust and fall off. Their life cycle is something like 2, three, three and 1/2 weeks. They're not typically all in the same stage. That is another thing that differs from the previous African outbreaks. They you can continue to see additional lesions over the course of a week or so. A lot of patients do have systemic symptoms, fever, they have some patients have profound fatigue like I have a patient who went to bed for 3 days just exhausted and they often have painful lympadinopathy as well. The lympadinopathies in the groin or the area it can be diffuse or can be regional. Okay. Can I ask more about the the lesions and just distinguishing them between say a primary herpes outbreak and also just muslescum contagio from human papilloma virus and genital warts you know how how do they how do you differentiate those? So compared to herpes herpes grouped vesicles on an atheis base. So herpes lesions are typically painful but you typically don't see them diffusely all over the body. if they're just in the genital region, you know, to actually get to see the blister of a herpes less, you're lucky because they're they're transient. They last a couple of hours and typically they pop and you get this very shallow set of ulcers that sort of coalesce into a serpigenous shallow based lesion. So there may be a moment in time when you're looking at a genital lesion that's a vesicle where you're thinking I don't know which way this is going to go but a herpes lesion will not evolve into a monkey pox leion over the next day. They'll they'll be easily distinguishable. I actually sent Stuart photos of a patient with diffuse molescum about 3 weeks ago because this patient some of these lesions actually had postules on them which would which would be very very very unusual for molescum and it turned out the patient had immune reconstitution syndrome from HIV and that's what the posts were from. it was molescum that became inflamed. But in most situations, mlescum lesions again don't they have that umbilication and if you know if you squeeze them that little ball of wax might come out of the center but it's not really a postul and they're not painful. Did I get that right, Stewie? Yeah. Yeah. And the great descript I I I should take a recording of this and and use this because that was a great description of it. Yeah. I I think mlescum though is going to you know as we mentioned household contacts of the monkey pox cases are going to happen. In fact, there's been two cases in children who were household contacts of monkey pox patients. And you know, mlescrum is very common in the pediatric community. And I think that's going to be, you know, Ann had a great description and I think most a dermatologist would probably be able to tell that it's a mislescum and not a monkey pox. But I think it it's going to be a difficult time going forward if this continues to spread as we're seeing. So what do I have to worry about if a patient comes in with monkey pox? And you said the lesions are painful. People can be in pain. But what else should I be worried about happening? Well, again, what we're currently seeing is different than what has been described in Africa. And I imagine that's because this is clay 2 and not clay one. Previously the the serious adverse events were as the virus involved organs and people developed hepatitis and sephilitis pneumonia. Here so far the complications are largely pain related. Patients develop teneesmas and I've had a patient with rectal prolapse and basically an inability to defecate. We've had patients have had to be admitted for pain control. they've had to be admitted for severe fngitis where they were at risk of developing dehydration and Kendall just to mention and that the concern is you know that the monkey pox fortunately being this clay to less virilent and much lower mortality but in certain patients it could be more severe and you know the imunompromised are at risk of complications from one of the smallox vaccines and we I don't know if we'll have time to get into the vaccines but even people from a vaccine a replication competent vaccine in the imuno compromise could have a fatal outcome from that vaccine as well as certain skin conditions could have very severe reactions to one of the vaccines. And so since monkey pox is in the same family and more virilent than the vaccine for sure that there is concern that there could be some poorer outcomes here in the US if this virus in gets into the the the wrong host. Stuart, how about pregnant women? I think that there's been some adverse events with previous monkey pox outbreaks in pregnant women. Should we worry about it with played? Yes. And yes, pregnant pregnant women too would potentially have a a more serious outcome and even infections of of the fetus from from these pox viruses. But as Ma Ann mentioned, we're fortunate in that, you know, the unlike SARS Kovv2, the novel corona virus that came when we had no vaccines and no therapeutics, there was some preparedness going on here in the United States and around the world to be prepared for a potential small pox being a much more deadly virus. And monkey pox and smallpox are such close family members that the vaccines and the drugs that were developed to to treat potential small pox is going to be effective at hopefully preventing monkey pox and for treating monkey pox. And so in while most cases do not require treatment, there will be cases that we we use this drug it's called or Tox which is a lot easier to pronounce. We use that drug in certain settings in patients with severe rectile pain or a fngitis potentially and then certainly would be used in an imunompromised host or someone else who's at a higher risk of a severe outcome. So the preparedness is one thing we have these drugs available but part of the problem we're experiences the implementation the scale up in use and Ann why don't you describe some of that. Yeah. So I have had occasion to acquire techat for patients and both the diagnostic algorithm and the acquisition of the drug at first to Stuart's point were phenomenally ownorous just hours and hours of forms and paperwork to to to get these things. Both of them have gotten easier. Diagnosis has gotten much much easier and so so I think it's available to the primary care person to do these things now. So Ann, you have a patient in front of you you think may have monkey pox. What do you do to diagnose it? What's the process? Yes, it's gotten easier. The first thing you do is go put on your PPE, your gown, gloves, your eye protection, and your N95, which is all the things that CDC recommends to keep that virus in the room and not on you. It no longer requires approval to get monkey pox testing. And in fact, here at Penn, if you make your way to the order entry box in pen chart and type in monkey pox, you'll see an order for orthopox nonvariola PCR parentheses monkey pox and that's the one you want. It's already been prepopulated with all of the important information. There had been some concern about whether this test would be covered when sent to commercial labs, but I have been assured that patients are very unlikely to face a bill and that they would be able to successfully adjudicate it if for some reason they did if they're their particular payer gave them some trouble. The turnaround time for the test is supposed to be about 48 hours. I haven't had one come back yet using this methodology because prior to this week, we had to send all these tests out to the Department of Health and that there was this very ownorous approval process and paperwork that was required. So, I've sent a few this week. Nothing's come back yet, but I'm optimistic that this much simpler process will be make it much easier for us to manage these growing number of cases. Kendall, if I could just add uh some additional info to what Ann was describing. So, because these lesions are so deepseated, a lot of people trying to diagnosis think that they need to somehow unroof and get some of the pus out of it, which is almost impossible to do unless you're a dermatologist doing a biopsy. And so using a swab, and you could use any type of swab except a cotton swab, you want to vigorously just rub the lesion with the swab. And it's the it's the skin cells coming off that lesion that has virus in it. and it you know and it's just swapping the and get collecting enough of the cells that just naturally are being descrimating off of that lesion that the PCR is very sensitive and specific to then amplify and determine whether monkey pox is present. If you're a pen person ordering the pen order, you use the usual universal viral transport media, the same thing that you use to do, for instance, a respiratory panel or a herpes swab. And you only need one specimen per lesion. And CDC recommends that you swab at least two lesions and try to get them at different stages. So inside the pen community, we're using the same tubes that we would use for a respiratory viral panel. Outside of PEN, there may be some other collection system. You just don't know, right? Yeah, it depends on the lab. If you're sending it to the Department of Health, it's a dry swab in a sterile urine cup. It's just a cotton swab like as if you're doing a bacterial culture. Okay. So, through that, we're able to diagnose it in 48 hours. I'm curious. And what are you telling your patients in that time? So, they're leaving your office and maybe they're not feeling poorly enough to be hospitalized, but you're sending them home. What are you telling them while you're waiting for this to come back? Yeah, this has been very interesting. You know, we're people are used to the COVID lockdown and so I have told patients, go home. You should wear a mask when you're around other people. You should isolate from other people. You should keep all of your lesions covered. So, band-aids on the ones that are on your hands or your or your legs if you're wearing shorts. Don't share bedding. Don't share clothing. And that goes well at first. Virtually all the cases that I've sent have been confirmed and and and then you have to tell people that they have to remain isolated until all of the lesions have scabbed over, the scab has fallen off and new skin has formed. And that is a two to three week process and people are less compliant with that advice I would imagine. And they're not feeling that sick at some point, right? Many of these people aren't feeling sick. For many of these people, this is just a rash and nothing else. Okay. So, let's get back to treatment. The you mentioned that that the drug I've forgotten the name. I'm sorry. I should know it. I'm the host of a podcast, but I've forgotten it. Kendall, it's Techveramat or Tapox, you could call it. Okay. And so, we had some some old stores of it available. Still, you were going over this. And let's say we do instead of 4600 cases, we have 46,000 cases. What's the future of getting this available to others? Yeah. So, so fortunately this drug which was developed and got FDA approved for treatment of smallpox was FDA approved in 2007 and my understanding is that the strategic national stockpile has plenty of this drug available. Now I say my understanding because previous to this outbreak of monkey pox I would have said that the vaccine that was recently approved for prevention of smallpox and monkey pox a vaccine called ginos I would have also said that that vaccine was in the strategic national stockpile and there was plenty of it and during this outbreak we have heard that it wasn't as plentiful as most of us in the field thought it was. Although the supplier and the government is quickly acquiring hundreds of thousands of doses if not by next year millions of doses. Let's go to vaccines. Stu, are we I know it's become available. Penn I thought I think I saw received a 100 doses to something from the department of public health. as this gets rolled out, what are the priorities for vaccination? Who should we be vaccinating and so forth? Yeah. So, so this the vaccine, there's actually two smallox vaccines available. There's a vaccine called AAM 2000 which is a replication competent vaccine and more similar to the vaccine that was used during the time of smallox eradication. The problem with that vaccine is that the number of adverse events and potentially serious adverse events with it is going to be very high. And so in weighing the risk benefit of using that vaccine to try and prevent or to give as postexposure prophylaxis in to pre prevent monkey disease. At the moment that risk benefit ratio makes it seem that the risk of that replication competent vaccine to be higher than the benefit. So we fortunately have a second vaccine that was FDA approved in 2018 called GIOS. And the beauty of this vaccine is it's a much safer vaccine. it it's a live virus vaccine but when it's injected into mamalians or mamalian cells it doesn't form infectious varants. So you inject the virus makes all the proteins it needs to make and that immune response would want to be developed to but the virus never assembles into a new infectious virion and therefore doesn't spread within the host and is much safer and can be safely used in a lot of populations where the replication competent vaccine that AAM 2000 vaccine would be more dangerous to use. So the DNOS vaccine, which is the one that most people are talking about and wanting to get, it's certainly available as postexposure prophylaxis, meaning that a case is identified. There's contact tracing and if you vaccinate someone within the first 4 days after exposure, you could potentially prevent development of monkey pox or certainly modify the disease. And so similarly people within the first 14 days after an exposure you could give postexposure prophylaxis with the vaccine to modify the the outcome of the infection. So that's the first group and there's vaccine available for people who are known contacts to monkey pox cases. The CDC has now begun a second phase of vaccinating through a something they're calling enhanced postexposure prophylaxis because you may have been exposed but don't know you were exposed but within the last 14 days did activities that put you at risk of monkey pox and you're in a community where there's monkey pox disease happening. And so that's the second group that is being offered vaccines through the public health channels. And the public health channels have been now distributing this vaccines to to various centers to make sure it's being equitably provided to to the communities that are in need of this. Once you've had the vaccine or once you've had monkey pox, what's the duration of immunity? How long of protection? Yeah, that's a great question and something we're going to learn during this current outbreak. We know for small pox that if you survive small pox, you had life what we would say would be lifelong immunity to to getting small pox again. Meaning if you were exposed to small pox later in life, you would not die from the small pox if you got it again. But as we've learned with COVID and and the the vaccines that we're using to prevent COVID is that these vaccines really don't provide what's called sterilizing immunity. You know, they just change the the the scales more on the side of the host to respond to the virus and clear the virus. So, with monkey pox, it would be expected that you would have pretty good lifelong immunity to monkey pox, but I still I'm not sure and we'll learn if you could get reinfected and if you get reinfected, do you have symptoms? Do you have a mild case, fewer lesions? I think that's something we're going to learn from during this current outbreak. So st eventually we'll get to the stage where we're we're maybe we're at that stage now where we're doing a formal vaccination program. It becomes a routine aspect of primary care and among at risk populations which I'm sure will evolve and to be defined better this proceeds to through the community. Right. Yeah. It's still early and I'm not sure yet at if we're at that stage that there's still some hope that this might be contained and not require continued routine vaccination similar to what's being done with like a papilloma virus vaccination which is definitely needed to prevent the cancers that result from papilloma virus. Hepatitis B virus is definitely a routine vaccination that's needed to prevent the the problems of of hepatitis B. Still think we may be early enough to potentially prevent this from moving into just becoming another viral disease that we have to deal with. But you know there are others in the field who are saying it's we're too late already at this point. Yeah, that was a question I had wanted to ask Stu and that is, you know, can we can we put the genie back in the bottle? Is it too late to do that or and and I guess you're you're saying varying opinions on that, but you're still hopeful. Definitely varying opinions and that the public health response that you know the communities where this is spreading and we've learned this from also the COVID pandemic and you know the great hope of the vaccine and how the vaccine was going to allow life to go back to normal. You know, it's just one of the tools of public health and the current outbreak of monkey pox. We the vaccine is going to help, but we're also going to need to identify cases, isolate them, prevent further transmissions, and ask communities to potentially decrease any risky behavior at least for a period of time until we could get better control of the outbreak. And in your population or in the patients you've seen, I assume there's been some contact issues that have become up from patients you've diagnosed and how are you handling that vaccination piece? We have been provided with a small supply of vaccine here at Penn and so we have given both post-exposure prophylaxis and we have given PEP plus is what Stu was getting at which is postexposure prophylaxis for people who are at highest risk of of coming down with monkey pox. So we have offered vaccine to patients that for instance have had a sexually transmitted disease within the last 3 months and you know pen chart's great with that. We can actually run reports and find out who we need to call and invite to come in. And we've also given vaccine to patients who have been known contacts to patients with monkey pox. It's a well tolerated shot. It's you know you don't get sick like you do with a co shot. It's one shot. It's meant to have a second shot a month later, but it remains to be seen. We're not currently anticipating that we're going to have adequate supplies to give that second shot. CDC is not making that promise yet. Eventually, people will get a second shot, but it probably won't be within a month because we have so many people that need their first shot. Although I do think the goal is for the the prime and boost the it's a twoshot regimen for this geneos vaccine to get the best immunity from it. And so, you know, with limited supply, the goal was to get as much vaccine out in the those initial vaccinations, but then additional supplies are coming and jurisdictions are getting enough supplies to do that second vaccination. So, the real hope is to get that second dose in within a month plus or minus 7 days. So, I have two residual questions just to clean up some things from before. And forgive me if I use the wrong terms. It's been a while since medical school, but the latency from exposure to clinical manifestations. Forgotten exactly what that's termed. It may be latency. Yeah, incubation. Incubation period. Stu, what is that? So, somebody's exposed and then they show signs of symptoms. Could you say what that is? Yeah. So someone's exposed and it really depends on the mode of exposure and that's what's been a little different in this current worldwide outbreak where some of the exposures happen and then disease is manifested within days of the exposure and they're commonly seen in like genital lesions or pererectile lesions and when it begins to be more heterosexually transmitted into women. I believe vaginal lesions could potentially come up very quickly. In other cases, depending on the exposure, you get the incubation period where there's a period of time where the virus has gotten in and it's now traveling to a regional lymph node replicating and then there's a remic phase where the virus then spreads and that's when you then get these diffused skin lesions in various parts of the body as Anna was describing on the arms on the potential potentially on the trunk, potentially on the face. So, so that the incubation period is a period of time when the virus has initially gotten in. You're presumably not infectious during that period of time. Then you get the prodrome during this vymic phase where the virus then spreads and you get these lesions popping up in other parts of the body. And that time delay, that incubation period is typically how long? Yeah, it could potentially be like two weeks. And that's part part of the reason why the postexposure prophylactic vaccine has some efficacy that during that incubation period while the virus is growing. If you give the vaccine which is a gives a lot of the antigenic load to just say hey body this is a foreign thing develop an immune response to it and then the immune both the innate and adaptive immune responses kick in and can alter the progression of the monkey pox during that incubation period. The other cleanup question I had just from our discussion previously is, you know, what are the criteria that are informing your decision to treat with the viral medication you mentioned? We're offering treatment to patients that are imuninompromised. So in my practice for patients with HIV who have a CD4 count less than 200, we're offering treatment to patients who have the potential to have severe disease. So particularly the peranal lesions tend to be very painful and so for many of those patients they're so uncomfortable that we're offering treatment for them for patients who are at risk with oral lesions where they might develop dehydration. It's gotten a little easier to get the drug. It's a well tolerated drug and so we're getting more comfortable giving it to people where we think that, you know, I have to admit I'm thinking maybe they'll be less contagious. Maybe they'll they'll be able to get out of isolation sooner because they're not staying in isolation as long as we want them to. So, I have liberalized my criteria somewhat, but I'm not offering it to people who are like clinically well with just a rash. Is it orderable and epic? Yes, it's orderable and epic, but you can't get the drug. You have to if if you have a patient that needs Techaramat, you have to reach out to one of us or to the pharmacy to get it. Commercialies don't have it. Yeah, just Kendall, I could add add to that on so one of the problems again with being prepared and then being able to roll out medicines and vaccines in a public health crisis like this in the population where this is in is the implementation has been difficult. So, Techverat has FDA approval for treatment of smallpox. Even though we know that it will work against monkey pox, it it has to be done under an investigational new drug and and the CDC has a protocol, an emergency access IND. And that creates some of the cumbersomeness of using the drug because you require written informed consent to use the drug. And then there are some additional logistics with the CDC which they have simplified over time. But this is this is not like the emergency use authorizations that we had with some of the COVID drugs and vaccines once clinical trials showed that they were safe and efficacious. We know this drug is safe because it's been tested in humans and it's safe, but it doesn't have FDA approval for treatment of monkey pox. I'm also gathering that it's not something primary care physicians will be ordering as of yet. Yeah. So I I think we will it will be very similar pro depending on how this epidemic goes. It's going to be similar to what we've experienced with COVID. At the beginning, it was just the specialists kind of seeing and treating and then more cases came and the and drugs became easier to access and prescribe that, you know, it could someday become a disease where primary care doctors are both diagnosing and treating because it's going to be mainly an outpatient disease as as we're currently seeing it. Well, that's wonderful information from both of you. I I want to give you an opportunity to say something to the primary care community if there's additional points you want to make. I would just say, you know, testing has become much easier as an described and that at this point where we're learning about the disease and trying to see where it is and who has it that if you have a question, if you're not sure of the diagnosis and frequently monkey pox occurs with other sexually transmitted infections that it may be worth doing more testing, at least initially to see if the case you're seeing in front of you is a a case of monkey pox. So, thank you both for coming on. This was really timely and very important. I learned a lot and I'm sure the members of the primary care community did as well. This is something that we're all sort of struggling to figure out and you answered many of the most important questions. So, I really appreciate you both coming on. My pleasure. Kendall, thanks for the invite. I I really enjoyed it and I hope it's helpful. It will be Steu. Thank you so much. So, please join us again next time for the Pen Primary Care podcast. Please note that this podcast is for educational purposes only. For specific questions, please contact your physician.