Welcome to the podcast series from the specialists at Pen Medicine. I'm Melanie Cole and today we're discussing the new lower extremity salvage guidelines and the Penn Orthoplastic Limb Salvage Center. Joining me is Dr. L. Scott Leaven. He's the chair in the department of orthopedic surgery and a professor of surgery in plastic surgery at Penn Medicine. Dr. Leaven, it's a pleasure to have you join us today. 185,000 lower limb amputations occur each year in the US. Where and why are these amputations taking place and why are more than 500 of them occurring every day? The cause for amputation is multiffactorial. We can take three domains that predominantly cause limb loss. Number one, sadly, trauma due to injuries such as car accidents, motorcycle injuries, lawnmower injuries, and children. The ravages of peripheral vascular disease and diabetes left untreated shut down the circulation in the extremities, the lower extremities more than the upper extremities, resulting in unsalvageable limbs. infection uh because of what we call sepsis or rampant infection in extremities requiring drugs to save life but with loss of limb. And then a smaller percentage of patients with malignancies such as osteio saroma or soft tissue car uh sarcomomas which are uh soft tissue cancers or bone cancers where the limb uh is amputated to treat the cancer effectively. So multiple multiple reasons again to narrow it down mainly vascular disease and trauma I would say. Well thank you for sharing that. So, Dr. Leaven, can you tell us about the lower extremity guidelines for salvage or legs effort at Penn Orthopedics and why it was created? What is legs? Tell us a little bit about it. Lower extremity guidelines for salvage. Um, legs grew out of the establishment of what we call the pen orthoplastic limb salvage center. Orthoplastic is a term that I coined more than 30 years ago that describes applying the principles and practice of both orthopedics and plastic surgery to clinical conditions simultaneously to optimize care as it centers around what we call limb salvage. So orthoplastic approach is for patients who are being threatened with limb loss upper and lower extremity and in our limb salvage center using the orthoplastic approach which is orthopedics and plastic surgeons working together on a patient's problem. The orthopedic surgeons obviously predominantly expert in bone and joint surgery, in fracture fixation, in joint replacement and reconstructive plastic surgeons are knowledgeable about soft tissue reconstruction and particularly microvascular surgery which is transferring tissue from one place in the body to another on its blood supply. such as a patient injured in a motorcycle accident where the trauma causes avulsion or destruction of soft tissue over bone, exposing the bone and rendering the limb at risk for amputation if the soft tissue is not restored. And we use these so-called microvascular techniques to transfer tissues from the back or the thigh or the abdomen to the extremities to reconstitute or rebuild soft tissue that is missing. And that can occur in patients that have infection and even patients that have diabetes or vascular disease where they have diabetic ulcers or vascular ulcers that result in soft tissue loss. that is skin and subcutaneous tissue and muscle, exposing bone, exposing the heel, exposing body parts that if they're not covered and they're not resurfaced will render the part uh non-s salvageable and require amputation. So, our limb salvage center specializes in taking any patient who's had a trauma, chronic infection, vascular disease, diabetes, diabetic ulcers, intractable nerve pain, all sorts of conditions related to extremity dysfunction and treating them and reestablishing normal function, normal gate, and normal quality of life with the limb salvaged. That's fascinating. So, can you expand just a little on the guidelines to evaluate lower extremity injury patients and help streamline that transfer to dedicated centers to help them avoid amputation? Well, our team, which includes orthopedics and plastic surgeons and vascular surgeons and interventional vascular radiologists at the Panoroplastic Limb Salvage Center, is available 24/7 365. We're here for patients that are acutely injured. As I said, that will require soft tissue reconstruction. patients with vascular disease meaning the limb in trauma or even in chronic conditions is rendered eskeemic. Eskeemic means the blood supply is either acutely interrupted with trauma or patients such as those with peripheral vascular disease that have narrowing of the arteries and they also may or may not have diabetes also characteristically have poor blood supply at baseline. Then if that patient gets an injury uh or a diabetic develops an infection and soft tissue loss, not only do we have to reconstitute the soft tissue, but many times we have to improve what we call the inflow the blood going into the limb so we can transfer vascularized tissue or at least provide additional nutrients and blood to the limb that is threatened. Well, how then do dedicated centers like the Penorthoplastic Limb Salvage Center care for patients at risk? What are some of the potential benefits of transfer? And tell us about some of the different treatments and technologies that you've really mastered there. Well, the the technology again involves a very heavily reliance on vascularized tissue transfer using microsurgical techniques. so-called free flap surgery. We can transfer soft tissue patients that have lost segments of bone in the thigh bone or the leg bone, the femur or the tibia. We can take other body parts that contain living bone either from the knee or the opposite leg, a bone called the fibula. We can take that on its blood supply and rebuild not only soft tissue with our microvascular techniques but rebuild bones. We have a way in patients that have threatened limbs with acute trauma to perform stabilization acute stabilization and then revascularize the limb and cover the limb in many patients such as those with what we call 3C injuries. There's a classification 3B and 3C. And characteristically, 3C injuries are severe injuries that if these limbs in a timely fashion within a few hours do not have their blood supply reconstituted, so-called bypass operation, that limb is lost forever. So, we have incredible vascular surgeons at the limb salvage center that work with the orthopedic trauma team and the plastic surgeons. We work as a team. team, the acronym team. Together, everyone achieves more. And by working together, we bring the best of pen medicine, the surgical skill set, the radiologist skill set, the the management of pain, which presents to these patients not infrequently, and we put our toolbox all in the same room and go to work and salvage limbs. other centers may not have the depth and breadth of talent and techniques that we offer that can salvage limbs. That is so interesting. Now, as you've told us about the multiddisciplinary services, Dr. 11 and why they're critical to managing some of these very complex patients. Can you explain the benefits from not only the surgical standpoint as you've just discussed, but also from managing those medical comorbidities that come as you mentioned diabetes and vascular issues. Speak about how you all work together to help manage some of those. Well, we rely heavily on our medical colleagues, our endocrinologists, surgical intensivists. Patients perhaps have to go to the intensive care unit. They're managed their fluids, their nutrition, their pain, their ventilators. A lot of these are what we call poly trauma patients that have had life-saving surgery for example on the outside done very well by our community physicians, community surgeons and basic trauma care by excellent orthopedic surgeons. But the level of expertise after what we call damage control is performed and life is saved is then to turn attention in the poly trauma patient. the patients had a severe crushing injury or a car accident or a fall from a height or an electrical injury. You think of a dramatic mechanism after the life is saved from such an adverse event then attention is turned to limb salvage which becomes a secondary consideration. How do we rebuild that damaged and fractured and soft tissue deficient leg? If it can be done in the community, that's great. But often the armamentarium in many community regions is not such that they have the availability of that expertise. And so we offer partnership with the excellent physicians in the community to work with us to let us take on the patient for the next step related to limb salvage. Finally, Dr. Dr. 11, what message do you have for non-tiary trauma centers and emergency departments to encourage them to refer to limb salvage centers like the pen orthoplastic limb salvage center? To whom do they reach out and how? And if a provider has a patient with a lower extremity trauma that includes those factors you've mentioned, what's the best way to transfer that patient to the pen orthoplastic limb salvage center? Well, as I said, we're available 24/7, 365. So if you have a patient that has an acute problem or a chronic problem, a non-healing wound, a non-union, a fracture that has not united, intractable extremity pain, nerve injury, call the orthoplastic center, think legs, lower extremity guidelines for salvage, and we'll be here to help you. What great information and great work that you're doing. Dr. Levan, thank you so much for joining us today. And to refer to Dr. Levan at the Penn Orthoplastic Limb Salvage Center, please visit penmed.org/refer or you can call our dedicated line at 2156156978 and speak directly to one of our puls surgeons. That concludes this episode from the specialists at Penn Medicine. For updates on the latest medical advancements and breakthroughs, please follow us on your social channels. I'm Melanie Cole.