John is a very busy practitioner and you you talk about passion he has it and uh he also is a very uh engaging speaker and actually his hobby is comedy. So if he's not doing arroscopy, he's doing imitations of people like me and uh it's great and he's passionate about the silver. So you'll see. Okay, John. Thanks, Scott. And um I'm actually so I have a disclosure to make. I didn't take my meds, so I won't let that uh um be sure. And um I'm passionate. I'm passionate about pen. I uh been in the area since ' 84. And um I had the blessing of training here and um you know uh good leaders create good cultures and I just can't tell you how happy I've been since I've been at Penn uh being surrounded by such good people and you know the paradigm when I was a resident was a highend research clinical marginal every guy every woman that I work with are superb surgeons I would literally send my family to each one of as we say in Philly used guys u Dr. Leaven and Dr. Senate or vice chair. Uh in addition to being, I think, um very very skilled clinicians, they're just great people. And I have a very very warm and fuzzy feel when I go to work knowing that when I go to Scott for a problem, he's going to give me the honest answer and he's really going to do the right thing. And what else could you ask for in leadership? So I'm just a blessed man. So what's new in in arthoscopic surgery, which is really the essence of sports medicine? And I have a an internal medicine primary care bias. I thought long and hard about uh being a primary care physician. I just love people. I have a sort of a non-invasive tilt, but I love surgery and it's such a interesting uh environment here to be around so many real doctors. Uh Dr. Kapoor is a real doctor and he also is a very superb uh sports medicine physician. Um and I love going him with my medical problems. In fact, the said uh my uh cholesterol now is 230. What do I do if it gets any higher? He said sell and people don't know what the orthopedic well we know I use a stethoscope once in a while just to look professional did anyone know what the orthopedic point of oscultation is anyone the zyoid process we can hear the lungs sort of I hear heartbeat and bowel sounds so there you go that's how an orthopedist uh we have some celebrities right next to Ro's left is the famous track star Jackie Joiner Kirsty Jackie please stand up please uh and to her left is uh Beyonce who's out for a new album next month. So, we're going to talk about knee preserving innovations, jumpers knee, problem shoulder stability, irreparable cuff tears, elbow arthroscopy. So, you're hearing a lot about scope. Uh, I have a lot of passion about minimally invasive holistic surgery. Uh, if we do an ACL, it's not a free ride. Morbidity does exist. All these things can happen. I think that uh mother nature, I call it the good lord, gave us an ACL with prop receptive fibers for a reason. In the old days, we take everything out, put a graft in, make a big notch plasty, use bone, patella bone, hamstrings, and I think we really were making our patients uh become arthritis machines for those reasons. And we take out that graph, we also denervate the uh the knee. The ACL provides a significant propreceptive function. We all know propreception is knowing where your body is in space. So I said, why are we doing this? The gold standard was the patella tendon. We know that quad weakness, there's a great rheatologist named Kenneth Bran. And anyone familiar with his work that maybe quad weakness is a harbinger of knee OA. Why is that? Anybody have an idea why that could be? What's your greatest shock absorber of the knee? Your quadriceps. So if your quads are weak, it's like having poor shocks in a car. Your car wears out faster. And I know that people who have a bone tail bone harvest have quad weakness. And that's actually a very very talented fellow named Leo Kiski from Australia uh who has uh written about eight nine year follow-up of bone metal bone patients getting not patellofhemeral but knee arthritis. I said what's wrong with this picture? See, no one's ever proven that ACL reconstruction prevents arthritis. And they get these some of the reasons why hamstrings is a big operation as you see out there. And these are good surgeries, don't get me wrong, but if you want to do, and this is what Penn's all about, trying to push the bar. What's the absolute best, you know, people like Dave Steinberg actually spend time in the laboratory. Dave operates on rats and uh we're trying to figure out what's the best thing we can do for our patients. It's a blessing of being an Irish great passion. If I see something that's out there that I think is better for the patient, I'm going to learn that. I don't want I don't want doing something that's you know B minus. I want to do what's best. My wife's a saint for putting up with that persistence. Women are more hamstring persistent than men. They rely on their hamstrings. So if you harvest a hamstring from a woman, you're not doing that woman a you're doing that woman a disservice. Do you know that if you cut an ACL or have an ACL division knee, you put that person on a treadmill and get an EMG, they have increased firing of their hamstrings. It's a compensatory mechanism. Why would you harvest the hamstrings denervation propreception? We talked about that notch plasty. If you do a notch plasty in a dog, you get arthritis. Period. It's been shown in in in dog studies. Holistic ACL is really by respecting anatomy, respecting biology. Dr. Leven is a master at respect. I he operated me once. He got me out of trouble one day and and I just watched the way he handles tissue. Good surgeons respect biology. I tell the residents, I want you to develop one thing in Spanish. They mono suave means soft hands. You can't take good care of patients when you're slashing. I also mentioned also Joanne Epstein. She's got a heck of a job. She I have something called ADHD. That's uh attention deficit. That's a nice dress you have on, ma'am. Um so I'm never going to win any awards in coding and dictation. Okay. So she puts up with that, but I'm working on it. um holistic ACL is really respecting biology. I don't like notch plasties like res reserving native anatomy minimal soft tissue resection and I think that you can use an alligraph if it's not treated very very stringently it's almost as good as your own tissue and I think you can preserve prop perception less inflammation um and there's all this talk about double bundle ACL did you know that 80% of ACLs are done by people who do 10 or less a year so if my job is to promote science do I want to preach a technique that people are doing 10 year double bundle ACL. Hello, that's hard for me to do and I've been doing the arthroscopy for 20 years now. So, I think the the the spirit of science is how can I help the audience? Let's get a reproducible technique that most community orthopods can do. Let's let's promote that. The Koreans have been ahead of the curve in terms of biology. We know that if we keep the PCL, for instance, and don't take it out, just drill through it, MRIs look better at a year. I took this logic to the ACL. And we also know from Pittsburgh studies that God tells you where to put the graft. There's our footprint right there. Ain't it funny, Scott? The older we get, the more we just go back. And Dr. Steinberg, my mentor, Dave's father, told me, you know, we called circular orthopedics. We go back to what we learned 20, 30 years ago. And people were doing this probably 20 years ago. Then we back to this isometry thing, double bundle. Now we're like, hey, let's just put the graph where God made it. Hello, McFly. So here's here's the footprints of the ligament. We can reproduce that. We have a happy patient. So I use non-eradiated alligraphs tibial anterior. That means it's it's very very minimally treated. I take the anatomic insertion. I keep the graft. I drill through it. I don't take it out. Makes the technique a little harder. And um there is a learning curve of course. So just basically you're just peeling it off. Peeling it off. And the the anatomy will show you where to put the graft. It'll show you where. And here's what we have. Looking at our footprint, I drilled a little hole right where the creator made it. Right there. That's where my get guy pin is going to go. There's the AM bundle, PL bundle, you want to say, whatever called them up. I put it right smack in the middle. And I think that it's funny, the older we get, the more we keep it simple. And there's our finished product or our guy pin, excuse me, coming through the native ACL. There it is. Keeping it. And there's our finished product. a kind of a sort of a hybridization of the graft and the old tissue. And if you put it right, you don't get problems with extension. Now, as Scott uh and uh David and uh I guess other speakers have mentioned, Craig, I think we have the best resonance in the cosmos. And these these young men and women not only are superb clinician scientists, they're great surgeons. And and I have been so overwhelmed with my research interests. I say, "Well, let's look at this." Two days later, here's the vertical. I'm working on the IRB being like, "Wow, wow. It's amazing. I don't know where we're getting these people, but they're just like DNA marvels." I just I just can't believe you. Look at their CVs, you know, not only the AOA and they've they've cured cancer, but they've been in the Peace Corps and they they've have support groups for uh minorities. It's just unbelievable. We're getting these young men and women. Uh Amy Hers looked up some of our ACL studies and uh what we've done is holistic and these were actually with some radiated Achilles but we're actually doing quite well with holistic ACL in terms of the results. So we're getting about a 4% failure rate which is uh very very u comparable to the autographed and this is with some radiated graphs. I've been happy to say since I've been a pen now two years, I can't think of a single failure since we've used non-radiated tibialysis interior graphs incisions this big go home no notch plasty no patellitin and harvest so I uh feel like a very very lucky man my job and my passion is to keep people away from Craig Israelite which is a kind of a funny thing to say but I I would send my family him I I would try I send everyone that I can to him he's absolutely just superb uh um arthroplasty surgeon and one of the things about character is a couple times I've sent people to him and I'm very conservative and I see the patient well Dr. I'd say go see. He gave me another injection. It's always good to hear someone that surgery is the last resort. And pen medicine is not only about scientific method and pushing the bar. It's about the practice of ethical medicine. And I love what Scott said. I don't like marketing. I just like doing the right thing. That's the best marketing in the world. I think doing the right thing. So dose response to increase contact stress in the knee. When we take out meniscus, the more you take out, the more Arthur and uh young lady there who works in North Philly, my North Philly patients when I was at Temple taught me the word for arthritis. And I said to one young man or one older woman, a man, one day I said, "How are you doing, sir? How can I help you?" And communication skills requires humility. How can I help you, doctor? This was the answer. I had a visitor last night. Oh, yeah. Who who came and visited? Arthur. Arthur moved in and he brought his cousin Reus. Now that's a southern term and I know exactly what he meant and he said you know doctor once Arthur moves in he never leaves. There's no cure for arthritis. There isn't. So when the more meniscus we take out the more Arthur uh we see but a repair miniscus better no meniscus and we have these new wonderful fixators that the old traditional technique was inside out suturing. Now we have these the fixators where you actually can fix a meniscus through a little dinky arthoscopic. It's a wonderful exciting feeling that you can fix cartilage injuries uh with minimal invasive invasivity. It's all about the blood supply and we try to get meniscus tears that are in this area the peripheral third. If I see a tear in that area, you have to talk me out of fixing it because I know that a repair miniscus is better than ominiscus and there is no cure for arthur. So we have to enhance blood supply. Uh platelets is a cont. We could talk all day about platelets. There's a studies pro studies con. I have a hard time Joanna knows this getting insurers to pay for the plate rich plasma. Ideally, I would love to use plate rich plasma scope. It's hard to get approval. The art of medicine is who to fix, who not to. This is a miniscus tear that I want you to meditate on uh that you look at this and it's not really quite peripheral third but but if a younger person I'm going to fix this because with these fixators and there's no invasiveness to it minimally invasive to it there's very little downside in at in least fixing it because if you get a partial repair a partial repair is better than no repair his thing is really exciting gets my passion up for years we saw these extruded miniscy on an MRI and I can't tell you Dr. Israelite said, I can't say that enough about too many MRIs. I have to respectfully disagree with some other comments about repeating MRIs and shoulders. I I get MRIs when I see symptoms. I always ask, is this test going to change my management? If it doesn't, I don't get it. Some of our patients pay 20% out of pocket co-pays for MRS. So, why would I want to repeat MRI every six months when I know they have to pay $2,300 when it's not going to change my management? They need a man scan, a woman scan. They don't need an MRI. They just, how are you feeling? This is hurting. Let's see your weakness. Is your weakness? If someone has a problem that's getting worse clinically and by strength then I think I look at it more closely. But these are extruded miniscy and for years we say eh this is Arthur we can't help that person but now we know that if someone has relatively good joints preservation this may be a meniscus root avulsion it's extruded it's extruded so uh when God made menisci he gave us these very very strong horn attachments if the horn is disrupted you've lost what we call hoop stresses that meniscus becomes ineffective is virtually the same thing as taking out the meniscus now thank uh to technology we can actually fix these things and you can diagnose them with MR Mars you'll see this very very subtle fluid level right at the horn junction and you'll see extrusion and on the sagittal you actually see that it's displaced anterly on the sagittal. We can fix these now provided there's not much arthritis we can drill a hole through the tibia and we can pass sutures through that. This is really not that difficult to do and get this and you'll see a restoration of the the anatomy and this is a 37y old denio and happened to this her lateral meniscus was her root was avoiders this ineffective so she was heading towards Arthur very very quickly if you want to trash the knee take out the lateral meniscus about 70% of the lateral of the joints uh reactive forces are conferred upon the lateral meniscus so we able to fix that in not too much time I do use meniscal alligraphs u the consensus of literature is it's not exactly counterprotective, but it can help people with pain, eusions, and function. And if I can help someone with pain, swelling, and function, by golly, I'm going to do it. And we use bone plugs on the medial side. We use a bone trough on the lateral side. And uh again, my passion is to do a lot of these osteotoies. Now, Craig showed the lateral closing. I love doing the medial opening. If I have a alligraph patient, someone who had needs a miniscal transplant but has low arthur, I may unload that joint. Just to pause and reflect here, does anyone know the life expectancy of A-50-year-old in this country? Doc, what do you think? 35 years. 32 point 33.1 years. So the longer you live, the longer you live. So I have a hard time recommending someone see Dr. Israelite when they're 50. I I'll do this because I can he can revise that and I give him quality of life and uh as we know uh you're always better with your own anatomy. Um let's shift gears here. So I do a lot of osteotoies. If someone doesn't want a toll knee, I will do an osteotomy and give them 10 15 years of increased quality. Now not everyone but as Craig would say they better point that finger on the inside on the outside. They put their hand on their knee and they have a little patella issue and I won't do that. Jumper's knee is something we see in athletes and this gets my Irish up for years. The treatment was open debriement. Look at the pathology. It's deep. So you say to yourself, why would you want to open and strip the tendon of its vascularity when the problem is deep? So there is something we think that may be involved with impingement. A distal pole patella rubs against the patellar tendon. And actually uh I start thinking about this and you look at these CT scans of patella. Look at this. So if the problem is on the under surface, let's treat it arthroscopically. Let's not open the knee. I I I had the uh blessing of treating this professional baseball player the other day and I did this one knee and his agent got involved and he saw this big uh sports guy. He did his own and he opened his knee and I'm saying why is he doing that? Because it's causing more pain. It's devascularizing the tendon and uh it it's not really addressing the problem. So this is a arthopa picture actually taking off the distal pole of the patella almost like we do a distal clavicle excision and you're treating the tendon service inside out. The patients go home the same day and they're walking within two three weeks. It's amazing their first visit. I actually wrote this up last year or this year and I found out that Dr. Basset and from Duke had this sign called the Basset sign. You press on the patellar tendon, it's tender. Eight out of my nine patients early follow-up had no tenderness sometimes early as a week out. It's amazing when you take out those uh painful fibers. Um my passion is uh arthoscopic treatment of all of all pretty much all joints. Shoulder is one of my real strong interests. I have a special interest in keeping people out of open surgery. And the problem with the shoulder instability, dislocator, is if they dislocate enough, they'll get bone loss. And the recurrence rate jumps from four% to 67% if they've lost enough bone with recurrent dislocations. When the ball and socket joint goes out, you can lose bone on the humorus. You can lose bone on the socket. So that's a real problem. And this is what we see in the humorus is called a hill sax lesion. This is called glenoid bone loss. So usually we would open these patients and do uh you know elaborate surgeries. You'll see these bone defects commonly and they usually occur in the front around 230 to 420 and 85% will have significant bone loss on the glenoid. So this is the gold standard open surgery. But look at this. This is the x-ray nerve. This is subscapularis. Dr. Glazer eloquently described subscapularis morbidity with arthroplasty. You can also get it with open surgery. Uh and also you can make these patients too tight and make it this. So you're not helping your patients. In fact you look at the open bankard literature long term there's an appreciable amount of arthritis 105 years out. So that got my Irish up and said what can we do to help this a little better? And this is the other thing that really got me concerned. Dr. Saxs looked at the open banks. 23% had incidence of subscapulararis insufficiency. When you do an open bank heart you cut this muscle. And guess what? It's never the same. I don't care who you talk to. If you're honest it's never the same. Look at this atrophy on a sagittant MRI taken from Saxa study. This is called fatty infiltration and someone the the young man in the back talked about vitamin D. There's a recent study looking at serum vitamin D levels and fatty infiltration of the cuff. Vitamin D has become the new wonder drug. So I give my patients lots of vitamin D. How can we treat the problem with the bone with the bone loss? Well, I dabbled with this uh alligraph arthoscopic. We got this published and I said, you know, it's hard to get the alligraph. Let's go to the synthetic plugs. This got taken off the market. And then a colleague from California said, 'What happens when we fill that defect in the humorus with with rotator cuff? It sounds very unphysiologic. It's called remplassage done arthoscopically. I didn't believe this until I started trying this. Fill in that big defect of bone with basically called tenoding the infraspanatus. Dr. Nancy Major is a very very productive uh radiologist that Dr. 11 new from Duke and she and I are collaborating with what happens to these patients long-term MRI wise and there may be some condro metiplasia maybe fills them with cartilage we don't know all I know as we say in Philly alls I know is the patients are happy so the results we have some residents that I don't know if they sleep or not Dr. Park here is making us famous. He looked at our results and he said that in follow 21 months only one patient reported instability episode. Uh I think this has gr grown to maybe three now but that sure as heck beats up that 67% number that we looked at earlier. He also looked at he's going to present this uh this month at the Eastern Orthopedic if he took the plugs that we were doing for a while that the replicas beats the plugs. So let's just uh ease into a couple other things. I have a passion for keeping people away from uh and Dr. Glazer is extremely gifted arthroplasty surgeon. I watched him operate and I would send my mom to him. But my goal is to keep patients away from because it's a big operation. If you have a big big cuff tear, uh what do you do? And I don't want a shoulder replacement. Well, you know, the subscapularis is the biggest rotator cuff muscle. It's a humoral head depressor. All right. The trouble is, I think it's an old Chinese or Hebrew proverb that the eye sees what the mind knows. I love the expression, you know, uh, subscapillaris tears uh, have seen you, but you haven't seen them. We didn't really recognize these arthoscopically for years and years. You haven't seen it, but it has seen you. There's a subscapularis tear diagnosed with the arthoscope because the tendon is intraarticular. All right, you can't you would miss this open surgery. You'd miss this fully. It turns out what Dr. Glazer said about the force couples in the shoulder to resist the deltoid. All you need or in Philly, alls you need is one half the infraspanatus and the subscap. So I can take Aunt Millie sometimes who doesn't want a new reverse, doesn't want a new shoulder. If I can fix the lower half of the infraspanatus and the subscapularis, I can sometimes take a patient who goes from here to here and they're happy. So this is what gets my juices flowing. Taking some of these debilitated patients who don't want a total shoulder. This is called a force couple. If we balance the forces, fix a subscap. The lower half of the infraspanatus, we can sometimes restore reasonably good kinematics lower half infraspanatus right here is the business end and upper sub that resists upward migration of the humorris. And the suspension bridge concept holds true. Do you ever see a suspension bridge? There's only two anchor points. Yet the bridge works. If we can get the anchor point here and here reestablished, we can sometimes restore normal function in a shoulder. They're not going to be pitching for the Yankees, but they can elevate their arm, which makes my day happy. Now, the scope can make you see everything. And it took an Irish guy to figure this out. 1945, he said, you know, these cuff tears, they have a pattern. They belong here to here. They don't belong. You know when I was a resident even we take this tissue and put it here and put the patient in a sling and a splint only for the splint to take off at se six weeks to tear rip because we put it under tension. Dr. Leven knows this. People who know biology know this the anathema of orthopic surgery is avoid tension whether it's in a wound or a repair eskeemia. This is called margin convergence. We bring the tear edges together. Put it back where God made it. If you know where it belongs you can bring this limb to here. So some of these huge CQ ball we call it. You look put the scope and you see a CQ ball head. If you know where the tear belongs, you can put it back under minimal tension. And here's a patient uh with a huge huge tear. So we got the we move this to this. We fix a subscap. And look, no dog ear means I guessed right. I put the limbs where they belong and we got this puppy covered. Boy, did I feel good about those are the kind of days of three. you go home and light three candles. Thank you. I did this. Thank you for helping. Uh this is called the interval slide. You can do releases if you know what the anatomy is. You can bring it back and get these puppies covered if you know where the tissue belongs and you need the arthoscope. If you know it belongs, you won't get a dog ear. And you at least get it, as Dr. Glazer said, partially covered and restoring the business end here. Again, no dog ear means I guessed right. And with enough experience, you do. So you can do a partial cuff repair, get a force couple, subscap tears are not recognized and the infraspanas you get half it done, you can really help the patient. Don't forget we do the AC joint resection. We smooth the acchroming, take out the burst and get more pain relief. We actually looked up our series of just 14 patients with massive cuffs. These are people that some people would have done reverse shoulders in and they all had satisfaction. 13 out of 14 had good scores. They all had good pain relief. The weakness was present. We're going to finish up with elbow arthoscopy. If you see someone with loose bodies, tennis elbow, and I don't operate on tennis elbow very much. If you do more than two or three of these a year, you're probably doing too many. Uh OCD, which is what I have. I wash my hands a lot. I have OCD and ADD. I could use a few more valves. Uh throwers, arthur, and epicondilitis. I love these cases of OCD of the capellum. The throwers don't get better. See that little fluid level there? That means that this unstable. This needs an operation. And this is Arthur of the elbow. Now, thank God we don't walk on our elbows. So, if I can make some of these patients a little better and give them 10, 15 degrees of motion, they're happy campers. We can resect the cornoid. We can resect bone spurs with a scope. This is a 62-y old guy I saw three months ago, and he was one of those Penn State alumni gymnasts. And he looked like he had stretch marks on his teeth, you know, he could bench press the building. One of those guys, you know, you know what I'm talking about. He wore his wristwatch on his finger, you know. And he said, "Doc, I I miss lifting. I can't get my arm straight." And we took off this spur, this spur, and this spur. We got his arm near straight, released the capsule. I called him. He's he's a real heavy hitter. He went back to Florida. Like, I saw him one visit. He's already in Florida. I said, "Hey, how you doing?" He goes, "Thank you. I lifted today for the first time in six months. I mean, how how do how don't you feel good about yourself when you do this with your, you know, with little dinky punctures? We can get increasable motion uh increase. And if you have a refractory tennis elbow and I do believe in injections I do believe in platelets for this. We can talk about that again for hours. The tennis elbow the ECRB is in articular. It's right below the capsule. You can access it with an arthoscope. You can release it. And the blessing of the arthoscope for the elbow is that you have sometimes concominant in articular pathology loose body and we call posteral plecica. We see a little civitis posterally. Ankle arthoroscopy. Love it because you do primum non-neer minimal incisions. We can do loose body civitis OCD again and how about this one arthoscopic ankle fusion respecting soft tissue envelope two dinky incisions this is what we can take this in the ankle and I have a disclaimer if a significant deformity I sent Dr. Pedawis Dr. opter. But if it's minimal deformity, I love these cases because they go home the same day. And this is one of our our pen football coaches who actually coached me in college. What a blessing to operate one of your coaches. I saw him last week. I said to him, you know, you help me because football coaches teach you about life. I said, I'm so happy I can teach you or can help you. He walked in, he shook my hand, says, John, I can't thank enough. I have no pain when I walk. Come on. If you don't, that's why I just love uh my job. We're going to finish up with hip arthoroscopy. Um label tears, loose bodies. So as impingement, rare, but it happens. And this is called cam pinser. When they get cam and pinser, that means they get too much bone on their femur or their establish. If we can intervene sooner, maybe we can prevent that process or slow it down. Label tears are a fact of life and this is the art of medicine. I think most people have label tears uh from just wear and tear. The question is who needs an operation and that's uh takes a lot of I think skill which I'm still on the learning curve. Bony impingement of femoral head that's impingement you'll see this in the literature a lot either overgrowth of the acetabulum or too much bone on the femur and if we resect that bone or resect this bone we can actually I think make the patient feel better for a long time. We see this bump more in men. We see the pinser more likely in women, but most patients have elements of both. So, uh, if you get your X-ray, you'll see the anterior acetabulum cross over the poster acetabulum. That's called a crossover time. That means they have either we call acetabula retroversion or a little overgrowth here. And it's been shown that this overgrowth can actually lead to premature joint degeneration. This is called the CAM lesion. You see it on a frog lateral. And I believe, and many people argue that this is a result of arthritis. I do think it's a cause of arthritis because there's some early literature now saying that if you take this bump off, the patients have satisfaction scores that exceed two years. Uh this is called the impingement test. As Craig said very very well a few minutes ago, groin pain is usually hip process. If you rotate that leg internally and uh they have groin pain, they have impingement and they probably need something done. That's my alarm saying I'm near the end here. And this is called soaz impingement. Um do you like that trick, Scott? It keeps the ADD in check. um so tendon can impinge and you'll see someone with a snapping hip and usually get better with rehab if they don't we can release the soest tendon very very not very at least but readily with an arthoscope and you can actually cure their problem so the art of medicine who needs a scope look for mechanical symptoms that means clicking catching impingement sign and this whole concept of sports hernia gets my eye shell because I think it's very rare I think most patients have either a laboral problem or muscular problem that's not uh heated so beware h We don't do hip arthoroscopy for arthritis just like in the knee. If there's a question who needs an operation, give them lidocaine. If they get better with the lidocaine, an operation will help them. If they don't get better with the lidocaine, then I send them back to uh Dr. uh Kapoor, Dr. Pluscaris for some more rehab, whatever. This is our setup. A lot of traction and we actually can, believe it or not, now we can take out troent bersa that aren't responsive to uh rehab. And one little one little last thought, be aware of glutius medius tendonitis. Glutius medius is the greatest hip abductor muscle. So if someone has chronic lateral pain, as Craig indicated, and you keep injecting their burst, they don't get better. Think of glutius medius tear or glutius medius tendinosis. The glutius medius is the rotator cuff cuff. I'm talking about my mom now. My mom's like, "My rotator cuff is killing me. What are you When are they going to find out a cure? When are they?" I say, "Mom, you're talking to they. There's no cure. Okay. Uh so anyway, beware of someone with with chronic troken tear pain. It could be a glutius medius tear and we can take out the burst of arthoscopically and actually we can uh repair the glutius medius arthoscopy. So I want to thank you for your attention and uh choose wisely. The arthoscope is God's gift but choose wisely. Thank you.