The Pavilion is a beautiful building, formed by many extraordinary people. It's a launching pad for amazing discoveries, for hope, for joy, and the future. The Pavilion is more than a building. That building has soul, and the soul of that building is the sum and total of all of your efforts, intentions, and love that you devoted to this process. We're so fortunate to be here together today, to have the opportunity to collectively participate in something so profound and meaningful. It's such a momentous occasion. [cheering] Today is the Pavilion's grand opening. We're going to be moving patients into this new facility. It's state of the art. We have worked for many years to get to this day to bring all of this to fruition. It's a really, really exciting day for us. I am SO excited about this new building! It is gorgeous, it's beautiful, it's spectacular. Whoever designed this did a fantastic job. Out of everything I've seen in all these years, all the buildings go up, this one here takes us to the next level. I don't think anybody else can top this. I'm really excited for Penn and the patients. They deserve this big, beautiful hospital, and they're getting what they deserve. Everyone has worked tirelessly for years to make this all come together, and it is awesome. It's so exciting to finally be in the space. It's really great to be part of such a historic day, both for Penn and for the medical community in Philadelphia. We watched this building come up, so it's just very exciting to see the inside of it, and actually work in the building. Go ahead, cut! We're about to move patients over to the new hospital, the Pavilion, and it's a really important day, not only for Penn Medicine, but for the patients. [cheering] Before we even got to the people, there were all these gorgeous balloons and things around, and I thought, "Okay, this is a big deal." It was awesome. They had beautiful balloons and flowers and everybody was waving and welcoming. I felt like I was a star or something, you know? It was so clear that this was a long-held dream finally coming to fruition. A lot of the things that we do here are really focused on, "How do we drive the care of tomorrow? What kind of research do we need to do? And how do we translate the science from the laboratory into the clinical setting?" And this building is built to really help us do that. The space is phenomenal. The design is very conducive to a sense of openness, and freedom, and comfort, and caring. Nothing was spared when thinking about the patient and their families. They can control their temperature, they can control the shades in the room. Oh wow! I need these at my house. The views from here are just incredible. You look out the window, you see the beautiful skyline, the city. From a patient's point of view, when you are this comfortable, it helps with healing. We want this to be a place that not only cures people, not only treats them, not only gives them the latest science, but also welcomes them and their family into a great environment. After all these years of planning, we are just so excited to finally be in this building and to get to work. We've been preparing for this for a long time, and we're just waiting for that first patient to walk through the door. We're going to optimize this space, and continue to evolve for decades, if not a century, in this building. Now we have the most advanced hospital in the world, in Philadelphia, for the population of this city. Welcome to the Pavilion! Woo!