Welcome to the podcast series from the specialists at Pen Medicine. I'm Melanie Cole and today we're discussing peripheral artery disease with Dr. Elizabeth Anne Genevese. She's a boardcertified vascular surgeon, an assistant professor of surgery at the University of Pennsylvania, and the director of the Penn Advanced Limb Preservation Program at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. Dr. Genevies, thank you so much for joining us today. I'd like you to start by giving us a little bit of an overview. For other providers about peripheral artery disease or PAD, P A and its endstage manifestation, chronic limbthreatening eskeeia or CLTI. Tell us a little bit about these conditions, who they affect and why do they occur. Yeah. So perforal disease is very common in our greater community of Philadelphia and essentially it's any kind of level of stenosis or full complete arterial blockage causing decreased profusion to the lower extremities. So it can be at the level of the arterial tree in the abdomen all the way to below the ingral ligament either above or below the knee. And what we see is that the patients at highest risk for peripheral arterial disease or pad tends to be patients over the age of 50 and they often have co-orbidities you think of with coronary artery disease or cerebral vascular disease. So hypertension, hyper lipidmia, diabetes and particularly either some renal insufficiency or full-on endstage renal insufficiency, renal disease all contributing to athoscerotic disease and progressive occlusion. We often see that this affects men at a little bit of an earlier age and women at a little bit of an older age, but really an equal distribution between men and women. often women are a little bit more prominent in the older age patient population. So the same patient population we're thinking about with coronary disease, corateed disease, patients who at risk of stroke, same patient population. Thank you for that overview. And while we're in that realm there, the initial presentation of P A is often prompted by claudication, pain in the legs. Are there ways to detect it before this point in asymptomatic people? Is there something that would signal walking difficulties limiting factors? Yeah, absolutely. When we look at P A there is a continuum of symptoms that we see. So the first patient population is going to be our asymptomatic patient population. So they'll either have some screening test or a physical exam where maybe you can't feel the pulses in the foot. However, they have no symptoms. It doesn't hurt when they walk. They don't have any pain in their feet. they have no wounds. In those patients, it's important to actually identify P A because it is a cardiovascular risk factor and it signals importance in risk factor modification. So, first and foremost, smoking sensation, diabetes control, anti-pipid and anti-platlet medications. Then the next step in this continuum is going to be often claudication. Not everyone is going to actually go next to claudication, but a fair majority of patients will describe claudication, which is essentially a very predictive amount of exercise resulting in cramping in a certain muscular bed and that muscular bed is usually the one just distal to the area of the occlusion or the stenosis. So if people have aortiliac occlusive disease, they may complain of cramping in their buttock or in their thighs. If they have more disease in their femoral or poplotil arteries, they'll complain of calf cramping when they walk. And people can be mixed pictures, right? You can have multi-level disease, but typically it is AI start to do it exercise, five minutes into it, I notice I have this cramping and then it's relieved when I stop after a couple minutes and then I start walking again and this happens again. Now when people have blockages that are just below the knee and it's kind of isolated tibial disease. So we see this in patients with diabetes renal insufficiency. Sometimes they don't claate because there's really not a muscular bed below those blockages to cause pain with exercise. So sometimes people will go from asymptomatic to the next thing they complain about is just pain in their foot or tissue loss. So, typically what they'll say with regards to rest pain is when I'm just laying at night and my leg is at the level of my heart in bed, my forefoot throbs, it aches, I dangle it off the bed and it feels better. Or they may say, I have this wound on my foot that hasn't healed in a couple weeks despite taking care of it. The rest pain in the tissue loss is a little bit more of that end stage of peripheral vascular disease. And that's the patient population that's really at risk of limb loss once they hit that diagnosis. Exercise remains a challenging course for patients with PA AD as it is such a limiting factor and and we'll get into that a little bit more. But before we discuss the pen advanced limb preservation program or the palp program at pen medicine, can you discuss a few terms? Critical limb eskeeia was replaced by chronic limb threatening eskeeia. Can you speak just a little bit about why this happened? Absolutely. So approximately 2 years ago, there was a multi-soccietal guidelines that came out called the global vascular guidelines that really looked at P A and our endstage patient population, the critical limbkeia patients as it is traditionally known as and this is again always been the patients with rest pain and tissue loss. And the initial thought behind the terminology critical limb eskeeia came from years ago over 20 years ago where a lot of the disease that came with perfarterial disease was secondary to smoking and there was this idea that there was a certain kind of threshold that patients had with regards to the arterial profusion and once they passed that threshold then they were at risk of losing their limb. What we see now in our more modern patient population is while smoking still plays a very strong and important risk factor for developing P A there is this high prevalence of concominant poorly controlled diabetes. So now people are at risk of losing their limb not only because of arterial insufficiency but the other factors that come along with having diabetes such as neuropathy, confirmational changes in the foot, poor wound healing due to the diabetes in the local microbiome that we see in the foot. And so we've changed our thinking to get rid of the idea of a certain threshold, a certain cut off of arterial profusion now to more the global picture of looking at patients and changing the terminology to chronic lymph threatening eskeeia. Meaning we know there's underlying arterial insufficiency. we have profusion defects to the foot, but that there are a variety of things that not only contribute to the risk of limb loss, but that we also need to very actively address in order to be a comprehensive program and providers to allow for limb salvage. So, tell us a little bit about the PALP program at the hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. Give us a little bit of your team overview, the multidisciplinary goals of the program. Tell us a little bit about it. This is a really exciting program that we've created here that's very unique to HUP. We have developed over the past year a really nice foundation of a multi-disiplinary program. And so what this is allowing us to do is approach patients from every facet of their medical care in order to optimize their ability to wound heal. So we have worked with particularly podiatry here at h. We have developed antibiotic pathways and guidelines specifically with the antibiotic stewardship program here at HUP to not only develop empiric antibiotic pathways when patients come in with foot infections or wounds but also empiric pathways to kind of guide our antibiotics once the patient is leaving the hospital to not only optimize specific coverage but also to minimize the overuse of antibiotics on an outpatient level. When we're doing this, we're involving not only vascular surgery, podiatry, infectious disease, but we're also working with other ancillary service lines that we traditionally think of. So, cardiovascular medicine or cardiology to make sure we're optimizing their hypertension and their lipid management while they're an inatient in the hospital. We're working very closely with diabetes and endocrine to make sure their glucoses are well controlled. So we're trying to take a very holistic and multidisciplinary approach while we have these patients as a captive audience and the inpatient to really set them up for success once they are discharged. What a comprehensive program and P A has several stages. Dr. Genevies with chronic limbthreatening eskeeia or CLTI is the final step often before amputation. What marks the demarcation between those stages? Why is the disease so often progressive despite the management that you were just discussing? Can reaclusion or the other squle be prevented? This is a tough disease process and so there's a lot of things that contribute to the development of pad and once we've gotten there once patients are symptomatic in one form or another there's been years and years of disease pathology and athoscerosis that has led to this point. The demarcation from claudication to chronic and threatening eskeemia really is the difference between it hurts when I walk versus I have rest pain or I have wounds or tissue loss. Once you transition from rest pain in the foot or tissue loss, whether it's gang green, an ulcer, a wound that doesn't heal, patients are at a 20 to 25% risk of limb loss in the first year and mortality in the first year. So it's a very morbid disease process. When we start talking about optimizing patients and reducing reaclusion, reintervention, it's really about risk factor modification. So smoking sensation is always number one on our list of what we're approaching with patients. But again also making sure those other risk factors that led to this disease process is also modified and optimized as much as possible not only in the hospital but once patients leave the hospital and they're in the outpatient setting. How do you define success in amputationfree survival? Speak about that a little bit. I think what we all look at with success in this field is avoiding major limb loss. And so in that effect, it usually often includes some sort of revascularization procedure, whether it's an open surgical bypass or advanced endovvascular techniques in conjunction with either wound debriements or potentially some minor amputations, forefoot amputations. Those are all considered success because what we're just trying to avoid is a below the knee or an above the knee amputation. There are some patients for whom no option is available. Who are these patients and why are they considered to have no options for treatment? When does it get to that point? There's two kind of patients who are quote unquote no option, meaning we don't have anything to offer them with regards to limb salvage. So the first is really severe comorbidities, extreme frailty or extensive tissue loss. These are patients who ultimately we can't offer them things because we will either hurt them as a whole in trying to offer them something or there's just no salvageable limb left due to the tissue loss. There's another bucket though of no option CLTI patients that traditionally we haven't had surgical or endovvascular options for. So this is a patient population where we've really had arterial blockages in the smallest vessels in the foot. With diabetes, renal insufficiency, and endstage renal disease being so rampant, it's really attacking and oluding these smaller blood vessels. So we will see patients have flow in their aorto iliac system, they have it in their fem pop system and then we start to see some disease in their tibials but then we have nothing that comes back in the foot and traditionally if you don't have a blood vessel that reconstitutes in the foot we don't have any target for a bypass or for an endovvascular procedure. So this is that no option patient population that we've developed some new techniques to bring blood flow to the foot in the absence of arterial targets in the foot. This is a fascinating conversation. Dr. Genevies and you're currently participating in a clinical trial of a device designed for the no option population known as limbflow system. Explain a little bit about the systems novel approach and no options critical limb eskeeia. Yes, absolutely. So the wonderful thing about the pout program here at hub is that we have access to a number of clinical trials where we get access to the latest and the greatest upcoming technology particularly with regards to infrauinal occlusive disease. The lymph flow system is designed specifically for this no option CLTI patient population that lacks an arterial target in the foot. So these are patients who we can't perform an endovvascular revascularization because there's just again no target in the foot. So the lymph flow system which we're part of with promise 3 is a system where we perform a deep venus arterialization. So the general concept is instead of bringing blood flow into the foot through the arteries, we're utilizing the Venus system in the foot to peruse the tissue. So what does that mean? We're actually perfusing the Venus network through the arterial system. So the lymph flow system is a novel group of technologies where we perform this deep Venus arterialization. So we create a crossover point from the arteries below the knee directly into the veins below the knee. We modify the valves in the vein and we place a covered stent in order to directly peruse the foot through the Venus system. And so over time over a one month to six week period we really create this very robust network of flow in the foot through the veins through neovascularization in order to peruse the tissues in the foot through the venus system itself and not through the arterial system. Dr. Genevies, as we wrap up, how can people with questions about everything we've discussed here today, P A, CLTI, or the Lymph flow study, contact the PAL program at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, and summarize everything, what you would like other providers to take away from this fascinating conversation today. We can always be contacted. We have a a POP hotline number which is 215662-4748 or I can always be directly contacted through email and I can always help guide people in either through the inpatient system or through our outpatient system whatever kind of works best for patients to get in whatever touch point is easier for most patients. But it's a really wonderful program with a lot of people very dedicated to treating and optimizing this patient population. I have great partners here in the podiatric realm, in the infectious disease realm, in the cardiology realm who are all very very dedicated to treating this patient population and it it is a fantastic team. Thank you so much Dr. Genevese for such an engaging conversation. To refer your patient to Dr. Genevese at Pen Medicine. Please call our 247 provider only line at 877-937P or you can submit your referral via our secure online referral form by visiting our website at penmed.org/refer your patient. That concludes this episode from the specialists at pen medicine. I'm Melanie Cole.