- Hi. I'm Bonnie, and I'm a pancreatic cancer survivor. I'm a wife, I'm a mother, and I'm extremely lucky to be here today to tell you my story. In July of 2014, suddenly I experienced grinding pains in my stomach on my left side. I went to see my local gastroenterologist who said, let's run some tests. So, they did an endoscopy, found nothing. Then they sent me in for a CAT scan, and then I got the phone call, and I knew, I just knew. She called me in and said, "Bonnie, we found a growth on your pancreas." When I was diagnosed, I knew I wanted to go to Penn. I researched them. I knew of their expertise in the field. I knew I'd be in the best, best hands. Dr. Drebin: When Bonnie came to us, her pancreas cancer had already extended outside the pancreas to involve major blood vessels near the pancreas in a way that we couldn't do a complete resection of her tumor. Bonnie: "What you have is, you have a mass growing around your artery leading to your liver, and we can't get you to the table until we go through much, much work to get you back, and hopefully I will see you again." I looked at him, I looked at my husband, and I said, "I'll be back." - Bonnie's a very energetic person. She's-- I think, was very eager to do anything or participate in any trial that might offer her a chance to have a better chance of surviving her cancer. Fortunately for her, we had a clinical trial open which involved the use of relatively new combination of chemotherapy followed by radiation therapy with a chemotherapy drug that had not previously been used with radiation, followed by surgery. - I sat in that chemotherapy chair every week for two hours. I did this for four months and then every day at 7 a.m. for my five-minute radiation treatment and I went for 30 days straight, rain or shine or snow. I had the CAT scan the end of January, and I got that phone call two days later from Dr. Drebin's office. I remember that day. I couldn't get there fast enough with my husband. We went in. Dr. Drebin was almost dancing. He said, "Guess what? You're my wonder patient. It worked!" Dr. Drebin: She had a tremendous tumor response. The tumor shrank by more than 50%. It moved away from the blood vessels. We were able to do the surgery, and in fact, when the pathologist looked at the tumor under the microscope, 85% of it was dead. There was almost no live tumor left. - I was out of the hospital in six days. Dr. Drebin and his team came to see me every day. I stayed off going online to see what could have happened to me. All I could think about was, I made it. It was a miracle. I had my family, my children. I wasn't going to leave them motherless. I wasn't going to make my husband a widower. I had so much to live for. I was 59 years old, and I just knew that I had the best part of my life ahead of me. There is nowhere else to go if you want to survive and you want the best care possible and know that your life is in their hands and they are treating you as a person, not your cancer, but you as a person. Penn is the place you should be. I would not hesitate to tell that to a friend, a loved family member, a stranger. The cure is within. Tell someone.