A lot has changed here at Penn Medicine since the outbreak of COVID-19. As we begin to return to normal, we want to let you know what we’re doing to ensure patient and staff safety, and what you can expect when you arrive for an appointment. First, we’ve enabled Patient Pre Check-In on the myPennMedicine portal in order to minimize time spent in our facilities. Just login, and with a few quick clicks, our clinical team will know you’re ready to arrive for your scheduled appointment. When you enter the building, you’ll notice that staff and patient entrances are now separate to better control traffic through doors. There will also be contactless temperature screenings at all entrances, so only those without COVID-19 symptoms will be allowed inside. As always, our greeters will be there to help you find your way, and you’ll notice they are wearing masks, and standing at least 6 feet apart from others. For those of you taking an elevator to get to your appointment, there will be limits to how many people can enter at one time. Frequently touched surfaces like elevator buttons are being constantly wiped down, and our cleaning staff are regularly disinfecting all areas of our facilities in order to halt the spread of germs. Across Penn Medicine’s locations, you’ll find hand sanitizing stations, so no matter what your route is, you’ll have many opportunities to disinfect along the way. When you arrive at check-in areas, you’ll notice plexiglass separators and rearranged waiting rooms, all designed with your safety in mind. Our providers will be wearing masks at all times, and remain at a safe distance while discussing your care. If your care requires a physical exam, be assured that our providers will be sanitizing and wearing all required protective equipment - for your safety, and theirs. We’ve also made some changes to our common areas and cafeterias to ensure a safe, relaxing experience between appointments, without needing to leave the building. And if you’re picking up prescriptions at our pharmacy, you’ll see that dividers have been put in place to allow for a contactless experience. We understand this is not an easy time, and we’re here to help you every step of the way. At Penn Medicine, our top priority is providing world-class patient care in a safe and comfortable environment, for you and your loved ones.