Hi, my name is Brett Royson. I'm 15 years old. My life was going normal until one day I started getting very bad headaches. I thought I felt fine until I thought it was fine until one day I couldn't stand the pain anymore. So, my mom brought me to my pediatrician who told me to get a CAT scan. I got the cat scan and had to wait for the results. What seemed like forever. My head hurt so bad that I went in the car to lay down. My mom came out with tears falling from her eyes. By the look on her face, I could tell that news wasn't good. I asked my mom what was wrong, but she said she would tell me when we got home. I was so scared that I wanted to know. So, she told me we were heading to Children's Hospital and that I had a cancerous brain tumor. From there, my life changed. I was only 12 going on 13 and about to go to middle school. This wasn't part of my plans. After further testing, they found a second tumor near my pituitary. My life turned upside down in 24 hours. I was in the ICU in Children's Hospital. I had brain surgery where a shunt was placed. When I woke up, so many things were running through my mind. Will I be different? Will I act different? Look different. I will talk to my amazing family a little bit later. I will say that the point my family was trying to understand everything talking to so many doctors and supporting me. Now I like to talk about my meeting my extended family. Some of them I see here today. There was an instant connection from the start. After all the testing and results, it was now evident that I needed an oncologist and inwalked a doctor who would save my life, Dr. Bolasco. In the weeks to follow, my family, me and Dr. Bolasco, would start working on a game plan. As Dr. Bolasco decided what to do, something tragic had happened. I was in my bed and my mom kept trying to wake me up, but she couldn't. So, my dad picked me up, put me in the car, and drove to Chop. What had happened is my tumor grew double size and was blocking my shunt which meant I was having hydrophilis. I was in a coma. Dr. Blasto got our game plan and from there I got my first treatment of chemotherapy. I progressively got better. Our plan was to go into six cycles of chemotherapy and six weeks of radiation. This was a very hard battle to go through which I'm sure everyone understands but I got to go but I got through it by optimist by thinking optimistic and never thinking negative about even though what I was going to through was my family especially my brother was every step of the way with me which helped me a lot and made me feel happy when I was down and stronger when I felt weak. My family was an inspiration and my strength to pull me through. My family were the most important people in my life and I love them so much. Another love in my life helped me get through it is music. Music has been a big part of my life and gets me through tough times. I was privileged to sing for Dr. Blasco and also had the opportunity to sing God bless me God Bless America at the Phillies game. Now that I told you my story, I would like to in reintroduce myself. My name is Brett Royston. I'm 15 years old and I'm a two-year cancer survivor. Um, this is one of my favorite codes that I like. Um, you never know how strong you are until being strong. So being strong is the only choice you have. Thank you.