- PEACE stands for the Pregnancy Early Access Center. So it's a way for people to know that we're there early in pregnancy to help with alleviating problems with finding care. We're there for those urgent needs in early pregnancy. We're bridging the gap from that first positive pregnancy test to the establishment of routine prenatal care, when emergencies occur. Some patients will use us just for a one-time visit. They may need one discreet need met and we're happy to provide that for you. We do a lot of work at PEACE with women who have had either prior complications in early pregnancy, or are having symptoms in a current pregnancy that are making them worried about a complication, such as a miscarriage. So, we see women who are seeking contraceptive method counseling, decision-making procedures with any and all medical problems or co-morbidities. We have expert training and education. In fact, we're leaders in the field for patients who have what others may consider a contraindication to contraception. Our team can help you find the right method no matter how complicated your medical history may be. Or even if another provider has told you that you can't use any contraceptive, I promise you, we can find you the right one that's safe and effective for you. We also work with patients who are making difficult decisions in a pregnancy. Maybe they are pregnant and that pregnancy is life-threatening to them. Or they're having issues with a fetal anomaly and having to make decisions about whether or not to continue a pregnancy. As a referral center, we're taking care of some patients with very complex medical situations in pregnancy, working on what we call pregnancy options counseling, helping them to decide what is the best road forward for them. A lot of what we do at PEACE is listen, and figure out how to fit the menu of different medical options for treatments into your particular value system, your needs, to meet your own expectations. We have outstanding physicians in the practice and nurses who also have degrees in social work. Imagine the luxury of that as a patient. Not only are you getting the nursing care you need, for example, after a procedure that we provide for you, but you're also getting the social support coming from that same person during the same time. Our job, in addition to making sure that each patient who walks through the door gets the most excellent medical care, our job is to empower you to know that you make good decisions, you're a good person, and make this really be an opportunity to feel like you are in control of your own body. You are in control of your own future, and you deserve that.