Welcome to Live Strong Philly. Hey, we're here at the Live Strong Challenge representing Team Pen Medicine. We're happy to be here. Even though it's wet, I think we're going to beat it. Hello, Kevin Kelly. Uh two-time cancer survivor. Uh live strong. Um I feel I feel the best when I'm actually exercising, working out. Um, in addition to the treatment, um, it keeps you mentally sharp and, uh, we're living strong. We're going to beat this thing. Two-time cancer survivor. After my first battle, I started riding a little and got interested in the Armstrong live strong thing. And when I came out of remission and had to go for my second treatment, I told myself that I would be here this summer. Here I am. I love you, Willie. Hi, my name is Debbie Salada and this is my fifth year participating in the Live Strong Challenge and I'm riding for my father who I lost two and a half years ago to cancer. I'm Jim All. I'm from the cancer center and the department of cancer biology at Penn. I'm a cancer researcher. I'm here to ride for cancer research. I mean, it's just great to be here with uh this entire group of people from Penn and and the other 3,000 riders. Um it's all for an amazing cause nationally, but locally it's supporting the Penn Cancer Center, our cancer survivorship program where there's a tremendous amount of activity and research. I am the team captain for pen medicine chop for the live strong challenge and I'm so excited that we had 105 team members that are going to represent our um our jersey fly our colors and all for a really great cause. Two wheels, one passion, two cancer centers, one mission, cancer survivorship. Sure. I've been an avid cyclist for over 45 years. probably put 4,000 miles a year on a bike and here's a great opportunity to go out ride with my daughter and also celebrate that uh my recent medical issues are now cancer free. So that's wonderful. Hi, my name is John Walker and I'm riding in the Live Strong Challenge today in honor of my father Paul and my grandparents Freda and Henry. I'm also riding um today because I can because I'm a cancer survivor as is my wife and I think the the Livestrong uh is a great opportunity to to ride for those who can't and to ride for those who'd like to We're strong. Remember the fight. We lost Jeff with Jeff Corbin in a minute. But obviously, anyhow, everybody be safe today. Have a great day. Thank you so much for being here and uh we look forward to, you know, quite honestly, I look forward to having uh the day when when we just have bike rides just so we can all have fun and and this disease is no longer a part of our lives. Two key points. Repeat after me. Eat and hydrate. One more time. Eat and hydrate. All right. Have a great day out there. No food. I don't have any food. Rolling out. group. We are now underway here at Livestrong 800 riders. This is Livestrong Philly. Have a great ride. Yeah, it's really great to see this too. The just the the Oh, look at this youngster right here. Teach. My name is Sergio Armani. I um I'm AI'm a skin cancer survivor. And actually in 2008, my mother died from a combination of brain and lung cancer. And it was the Liv Strong Foundation that gave her as well as the family support during the diagnosis and then after her death. Um I mean Livstrong was just there 100% of the way. My name is Susan Reynolds. Uh my son Craig Anderson was being treated at Penn for testicular cancer. Uh he passed away a year ago. Craig was treated at Abramson Cancer Center. Uh Dr. Vaughn was his oncologist. Um we couldn't have had it any better. the nurses, the staff, even, you know, the receptionist women who would make our appointments for CAT scans and all the testing, everything was great. Everybody was helpful. Um, we feel like we got the best treatment that we could have gotten. This is my first year and I definitely enjoy it. Very well organized. Um, everyone seemed very dedicated to the cause and that gives you more support and, you know, fundraising and also, you know, rallying the troops around you to uh to give their support as well for the mission. I'm doing it definitely uh for my mother's memory. Uh she, you know, spent her last five years really being trying to struggle through the uh the disease and really supported me and my brother. We went through college and so forth. So therefore, you know, she really really pushed it out to the end for us. So I really appreciate that struggle she gave to us. It's not as close for me, but um working with people who have cancer, it really touches you deeply. So, it's my small thing to give back to those people and to be able to try to help them. Well, this is my third year riding the Live Strong Challenge because I think it's the most important thing that I can do to support my sister and all of the other 28 million people in the world who are fighting the good fight for cancer survivorship. It's a small thing, but it's something that I can do. And it's so empowering. that makes you feel like you're part of a big army to actually stop the disease and and empower cancer survivors to live on their own terms. And I've got to say that the care that I've had at Penn with all my doctors and my surgeons has been absolutely positive and that's why we are here today living strong. My name is Joe Paladino. Uh second time as part of the PEN team. Uh first time as a rider. I am here to support my mom uh who is a breast cancer survivor. My name is Lauren Weirman. It's my third time riding with the pen team and I am here to support his mom and my aunt Lisa. My name is Barbara Schaefer. Uh my son was recently treated down at Abramson and years ago I was treated for breast cancer. So uh we've been patients and we've been doing the live strong ride here in Philly. The first year they did it last year and this year. Uh Brian passed away in March. Uh and uh he worked at the survivor rest stop last year. He he uh was really involved and inspired by uh Lance Armstrong's story. Being part of something bigger uh is just empowers you as I think an individual being treated and as a family kind of pulls you together. So uh it's a wonderful thing to be part of.