What is it? What is it? >> The delivery of the uterus transplant babies. It is a magical moment. >> You got a boy. >> Everybody knows that they're witnessing something that is incredibly special. For the parents to actually be here is a moment that they never thought they'd experience and they will absolutely never forget. Just an amazing feeling. You see the happiness. You see like how this is like amazing thing happened. You take a uterus from one person transplanted another person and then that creates a new life and you have these beautiful babies. When women hear about this program, especially women who have been moms and either experienced infertility or have been witnessed to somebody who's experienced infertility, when they see that they could potentially help by donating their uterus, they're moved to do so. It just instantly resonated with me. This was a way for my uterus to live on, to carry more babies, and to bless more families. It was an instant and simultaneous decision, and I never looked back. I applied before I talked to my husband. Being a mother was always something that I wanted to do. Not even having the choice would have just been devastating for me. With having two boys, my husband and I were very lucky. So, if my uterus can help provide someone else with the opportunity of knowing what it's like to carry your own child and be a mother, for me it was no questions asked. >> We were completely blown away by the number of women who applied to our program to be living donors. Our first donor after like all the process of surgery and the recovery and the healing, she said I would do all over this again. If I have another uterus, I will do it again. >> When I got the phone call that I was accepted, it was pure joy. I had heard about the surgery and the complications and the risks that came with it. Dr. O'Neal said, "Now that you have a bigger, fuller picture, take some time, think about it, and let us know if you want to move forward." I did not need time. I knew right away and I said yes. I never felt that I had to be fearful at any point of this process. Dr. Latif said, "Your health and your well-being is my priority." And I 100% trusted that he was going to do whatever he needed to to keep that promise. That just spoke volumes for me as somebody who did not need to have a surgery but chose to have a surgery. I never had a question that they didn't have an answer to. It was always very reassuring to know that they were always there and they always had my back to make sure that everything is safe for everyone. I had never had surgery before this surgery. I never had general anesthesia. So, I was very emotional when I woke up from the surgery. And as I was recovering, I was thinking about my recipient and what she must be experiencing and how this must be going for her. From the very beginning that I got my surgery, I've always had the donor in my mind. I was like, this is is amazing to to see that a woman, somebody that do not know you can go through a surgery and donate their uterus. It just blows my mind. It takes someone special to do that. She's an amazing woman. I couldn't believe someone, you know, would just go out there and go under a 12-hour surgery to help me. And that's what she did. It's not that you're just carrying a child here. You're getting an organ taken out of you. It says so much about what kind of person she is, an amazing human being. I had literally been told the day after surgery that the transplant was an initial success. And then to ultimately learn that she has delivered a baby since the uterus transplant surgery is obviously something my wildest dreams are made of. I can't even describe the amount of happiness and joy that I have for her and that she's been able to really accomplish what she probably thought was nearly impossible. >> This is my miracle angel baby Adriana Elizabeth. She makes me complete. My donor, she is my angel. I am forever grateful to her. She's part of me. I mean, my daughter came out of her uterus, so she will always be a part of me. I did meet with my donor and she was able to finally meet Rome. She got a little bit emotional because you finally get to see the gift that she's given me. That what you've done have completely changed the lives of three people. After my surgery, I let Penn know that I was willing to talk to future donors or people who were contemplating being a donor. It was great just to talk with her and I think that made this process and especially the recovery so smooth and easy because there was another person there that I could very easily go to with any questions. From that day forward, Sarah and I have become what I consider lifelong friends. At this point, when I share my story, I have a lot of people who will say to me, "I didn't even know they were doing that." And I want to be involved in this process of getting that word out to show that this is possible and this is a treatment option for women who before had no treatment options for themselves. We always try to do good in in this world but the living donor they are different level. Their interest in helping others is above and beyond anything I've seen. Our donors are not related to our recipients. So this is pure altruistic motivation for them is just to help others. Infertility is a devastating condition and if you're an individual that has completed their childbearing and this speaks to you and you are brave and willing to undergo surgery to help somebody else, you should consider being a living uterine donor. We're just normal people who decided to be brave. Having children and being a mom is the greatest blessing. And to be able to give that gift to someone else is more than I ever could have hoped for.