Exceptional healthcare begins with exceptional training. At the Pen Medicine Clinical Simulation Center, clinicians are acquiring the skills and education they need to provide safer care and improve clinical outcomes. Opened in 2008, the state-of-the-art simulation center serves as a valuable training ground for thousands of Penn students, residents, and attending physicians, nurses, and ancillary healthcare staff from around the world. Within the 22,000q ft simulation center, the most advanced and diverse of its kind in the world, individuals enjoy a safe, risk-free environment in which to learn and practice procedures, appropriately respond to a variety of clinical situations, and hone their communication skills. At the heart of the center are six rooms that simulate different settings and scenarios. Each room is equipped with a lifelike mannequin that can respond physiologically like a real patient. A comprehensive audiovisisual system records all training in each room for future review either locally or remotely. In these six simulation rooms, teams of health care professionals are presented with various clinical scenarios. 5-year-old gentleman for a left ranging from a complicated birth to a fire in the operating room. Fire in the arts. Get the drapes down. Get the drapes down. Call collaboratively. The team must resolve each challenge or achieve goal-directed therapy. The simulation center features 12 patient exam rooms used to assess and polish the clinical ability, communication skills, and professionalism of both medical students and seasoned healthcare professionals alike. The cent's MI surgical skill suite houses multiple virtual reality task trainers for practicing procedures such as upper and lower endoscopy, robotic surgery, and various vascular procedures. Rounding out the simulation center is a multi-sklls lab for basic skills training using lowfidelity trainers such as central line, foley catheter, arterial line, and more. While owned and operated by Penn Medicine, the simulation center is available for outside medical professionals, students, and training groups who want to take advantage of its resources. As an American Heart Association approved training site, the simulation center also offers advanced cardiac life support and basic cardiac life support training for clinical professionals. The goal of the simulation center is to provide current and future medical personnel with a simulated learning environment that translates into improved education, greater safety, and better outcomes for all of our patients. To learn more about the Pen Medicine Clinical Simulation Center, or to learn how you can support the center, call us or visit our website.