Brian: The surgery center at Penn is a new facility that really was designed and built with the patient in mind. Dr. Sean: It is Penn's only true ambulatory surgery center. It's not physically connected to any hospital, so it's really set up truly for outpatient surgery. Brian: I like to think of it as it's patient-centric. The whole experience here really was designed around what the patient would experience. Bruce: We are able to provide seamless care, from the parking garage right through to the reception area to the preop area into the operating room and out into the recovery room. Dr. Sean: It's light. There's tons of windows. It's cheerful, and I think that shines through every patient experience. Patients and doctors like it a lot. Brian: We bring all the expertise from Penn Medicine and the hospital setting to the patient so it really allows us to perform the same surgery that we perform across the street in our big hospitals in a setting that is more intimate, that ranges from sports medicine to shoulder surgery to hip arthroscopy to hand surgery. They're all procedures that could be done in the same day, can go home comfortable, with the pain medicine we prescribe. Dr. Sean: We work on things like patient wait times. We don't like our patients to wait a long time from the time they come in the door to the time they come into the operating room. Brian: They really spared no expense in outfitting the center, with equipment, the integration with video, arthroscopy, microscope technology, radiology, the surgeons really have the tools that they need to perform the tasks that they're trying to accomplish. Dr. Sean: Patient comfort is really important. You don't jump onto a gurney. You sit on a high-tech La-Z-Boy that actually turns into a gurney. Then you're wheeled directly back to the OR, get back on your gurney/La-Z-Boy and you're wheeled to the recovery areas. We have Wi-Fi, TVs, coffee, snacks. We have a pharmacy on site where you can get your prescriptions filled before you leave. It's really all about the patient experience. - Another one of the things that make the surgery center so great is that we're part of Penn, and Penn is a world-class institution in terms of physical resources like this great facility and human resources. People who work here are top-notch, not just in the region, but nationally and even internationally. Brian: Our anesthesiologists are experts at regional anesthesia. The nurses that are here, on the average, have at least 10 to 15 years of experience in the outpatient ambulatory surgery setting. Dr. Sean: And I think all of that comes together to make a really great patient experience. - The physicians and the surgical practices that are here really are practices that are well suited for that ambulatory surgery setting where the patient can come in, have their surgical procedure, then get home with a minimal waiting time, excellent outcomes, and pain is well controlled. I've been a surgeon for over 20 years. I've worked in multiple medical systems. I've been at Penn since 1999 as the chief of sports medicine. This is absolutely the best surgery facility that I've ever operated in. I'm lucky to be a part of it.