Throughout history, medical pioneers have always blazed new trails, striving to push humanity forward. In modern medicine, pioneering means advancing that tradition of discovery, finding treatments and cures, and creating solutions to improve patient health and save lives. One institution is leading the way in revolutionary discoveries and precision care. Penn Medicine, part of the renowned University of Pennsylvania, is one of the world's largest and most impactful biomedical research enterprises, with 21 new therapies approved by the U.S. FDA since 2017. We've developed life-changing gene therapies for blindness and spinal muscular atrophy, and the world's first approved CAR-T cell therapy, the cancer breakthrough that harnesses the power of our body's own immune system to seek and destroy deadly cancer cells. We built the largest proton therapy center in the world, where our pioneers are pushing the boundaries of what's possible in non-invasive cancer treatment. And Penn scientists discovered life-saving mRNA technology, which led to the first COVID vaccines and is now used around the world to fight disease. But for Penn Medicine, being a global pioneer is nothing new. Today's breakthroughs are built on a foundation of over 260 years of discovery and innovation. From founding the first hospital and medical school in the U.S... ...to trailblazing the first general vaccine for pneumonia... ...and leading the development of the MRI machine, it's who we are, and it's what we've always done. Uniquely situated between American hubs for finance and influence, Penn Medicine has helped turn Philadelphia, America's founding city, into the epicenter of gene and cell therapy. A powerful convergence of groundbreaking research, exceptional talent, and vital funding, earning the nickname Cellicon Valley. Coming together on one urban campus, Penn Medicine and one of the world's leading children's hospitals connect with the Wharton School of Business and the School of Engineering and Applied Science to constantly stimulate new discovery. And with over 40,000 people providing care for millions, and supporting academic activities in over 160 countries, Penn Medicine is making a global impact. From discovering new cures to battling pandemics, our expertise in virtually every disease and an unmatched ability to coordinate care across specialties enables us to deliver personalized care like never before. We are Penn Medicine, and we will never cease in our pursuit of what's next. Always discovering. Always innovating. Always leading.