My motivation for donating to the Pensway campaign. My motivation for donating to the Pensway organization that I selected was because I always was very concerned about hunger and making sure that people are fed. I think being philanthropic is more important than ever, especially in this economy when agencies and organizations are having their funding cut by the government or any other organization that may in fact it also be struggling. Now, it's time for private citizens to step up. So, I'm trying to do whatever I can to help out. Take this and see this as an opportunity. Uh, also see it as a privilege, the opportunity to give something to the community, an opportunity to take a look beyond oneself and take a take a look at what we can do to try to help others. My motivation for donating to the Abramson Cancer Center through Penn's Way is that as a former patient, I feel like it's a way for me to give back to the cancer center that helped save my life. I also feel like uh it's a way to ensure that other patients have the opportunity to receive the tremendous services uh that I received myself. I donate to several different organizations through Penn's Way. Um, I donate to my local flower company and I donate to Child Fund which helps to bring food to children who don't have any. They set a standard. They they sort of set an example for me as an individual to be philanthropic as well. My motivation is my son Robbie. My son Robbie was diagnosed officially diagnosed with an autism spectrum disorder at about 2 and a half years of age. Being philanthropic is important to me because I've been blessed in my own life and I feel it's important to give back to others uh who may be at this time less fortunate. It's the Makea-Wish Foundation and the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation basically to foster research and education and development in areas uh for incurable cancers and incurable diseases for children. We do so through uh general contributions to our local United Way campaign through the Pinsway program as well as specific organizations that we've grown fond of including Firstbook Philadelphia and Theater Horizon. Providers who work at those organizations, the therapists, the amazing teachers, the behaviorists have all taught me so much and helped me to be a better parent, a better advocate for my child. and I like to give back so that they can continue to help other parents do the same for their children. It's important for me to be a part of an organization that takes care of its community because without the community, you can't exist. I think if I were asked to uh give uh a new employee some words of wisdom about Penny is uh one consider the needs. There are a lot of needs in the community. My words of wisdom for someone new to the Pensway campaign is it's an extremely easy process. So find a cause you believe in and donate online. I would encourage someone new to Penn's way to give whatever they're able to give uh because every bit counts in helping Pen Medicine support its I know even in my own small way that I'm making a difference. To be part of Penn's way is to be part of something that gives you an opportunity to share your contribution with thousands of other people and it's magnified throughout the community.