Watch your nose. I was in labor for a total of 8 hours. The midwives came in about 2 hours before I gave birth. They were surprised that he was coming along so fast. When he did come out, he didn't cry and immediately was taken to the part of the room. That's just like a heartbreaking feeling. One, that your baby can't be on you right away, and two, you can't hear baby making any noise. Sometimes as the baby is expanding the lungs and starting to breathe, it takes a moment or two. So those moments feel like minutes. That's when it my role kind of kicks in to be able to make sure they know what's going on. Having Sander there was very reassuring cuz she knew what they were doing to him. So she could describe that to me and reassure me that yes, he was breathing. He's alive. He's going to make it through. Things went really fast. The baby's a little stunned. And then we heard that wonderful cry. That was the best feeling to hear him and then have him brought over to me and laid on my chest was like yeah it was great. The word midwife comes from the German it means with woman and that's really what we do. So whether it's obstetric care or gyn care, our goal is to be with the women that we're taking care of. There's a strong emphasis on education and information sharing and spending time and building relationships. We are meeting families at some of their most vulnerable moments. Um they don't have a lot of information that we have and we get to teach them what's normal, what to expect. A lot of fear can be dispersed with education and information. The midbree practice at Pennsylvania Hospital is the biggest midwifery practice in the area. It's been around for over three decades. One of the great things about how our practice is set up is that we have both midwives and obstitricians in the office at the same time every day. So, a patient who's seeing midwives for her care might have a question or an issue that develops that requires maybe some medical intervention or potentially a surgical intervention. So, it's quite easy for one of the midwives to just grab one of us physicians, pull us into the room, and have a little chat with the patient. When you're working with people side by side, you get to know them better. You feel comfortable with their decision- making. You can anticipate, you know, how we can make decisions together a little bit easier. And that's a great position to be in. I am a better obstitrician because I work with midwives. When it comes to taking care of patients, when it comes to their medical knowledge and skill and ability, I trust them with my own children. All three of my children were delivered by our midwives. Here at Pennsylvania Hospital, we have an inhosp birthing suite, so women have the option of low-risk, non-interventive care within the setting of a tertiary care center. So that in the rare instance when things go wrong quickly, we have physicians immediately available. The O is literally a minute away. We have a team of nurses that is the best in the city. So, we can take care of an emergency very, very, very effectively. We have patients come to us from as far away as the Jersey Shore. And these women drive miles past many local hospitals because they know that the care that they're going to get and it's going to give them a child birth experience that is not only safe and effective, but memorable as well. One of the really great things here at Pennsylvania Hospital is that there are only private postpartum rooms, which then allows the partner to room in 24/7. You can have the baby with you at all times. The breastfeeding support by lactation consultants can be done at any time. The fact that I would be spending the first couple days with my new son in a private room was really a big perk. It was a big check mark on my list. It's private and comfortable and there was a shower in every room. is the most comfortable place to have a baby if it's not going to be in your own in your own house. What's really amazing is that I've been doing this for 18 years and I still cry when I deliver babies. And it's sometimes I think what is going on? I'm still crying. But I had a patient come back not too long ago and she said, I just want to tell you you cried at our birth and that was so meaningful to us and it's not the professional way of doing things sometimes, but I still get so much joy out of it. It's just the most miraculous process. It's just exciting to see him grow into a little person. If we have a kid again, I would for sure use Pennsylvania Hospital. The midwiffery department really made this extremely emotional, intense experience the best possible experience that I could have had.