(gentle music) - A memory cafe is a safe space for socialization for folks with Alzheimer's disease and related dementias, or really any kind of cognitive impairment to get out of the house, to connect with other people who are experiencing similar symptoms without the fear of judgment or stigma, but also just kind of forget, maybe, about their diagnosis and what they're going through and feel sort of a little bit more like their old selves. - It cheers me up. Look, with one thing and another, I'm not always as cheerful as I might be. At these things, I do feel happier. I like the comedy, I like the music, I like the conversation. (laughing) - [Alison] Sometimes, unfortunately, the friends and family who they've met don't know how to cope with this situation, don't know how to talk to someone with cognitive impairment, don't know how to engage them, and so they tend to drop away, I think, not because they care, but because they're uncomfortable or scared and don't know what to do. - Well, it's pretty much you're isolated, you know? You're either in your house or, you know, like I said, there's really not that many places you can go. It's been an enjoyable way out of the life that we live. We're married 40 years, and she took care of me. You know what I mean. - A lot of our patients and their caregivers end up staying at home a lot more and sort of self-isolating, but then here we are in the office saying go get social interaction, that's gonna help slow down the progression of your disease and increase your quality of life. But then, how do they do that? (singing in foreign language) So, it originally started, we had a social work intern, Genevieve Geller, who interned with me about four years ago. And so, she had been reading about memory cafes in the Netherlands, and brought it to our supervisor, now our executive director, Felicia Greenfield, who greenlit it, and basically said, if you can find a space, because we really wanna have these in a non-medicalized space. We didn't want to have it at the hospital, we want it to be sort of free of the feelings that you get when you go to the doctor's office and the anxiety of that. And Christchurch Neighbor House, where we are right now, was able to donate the space to us for our first two years, I believe. And so, for about a year, it was pretty much just donation-based. We didn't have performers the way that we do now. It was really just two hours one Friday morning a month to come together and sit and have casual conversation and coffee. - [Mark] It's a great safe place. You could take your husband, your mother, your father, no matter who has it, they're there and they're amongst other people who have that same disease, and for yourself, it's that you're back in the community. - Usually they have this caregiver, care-recipient connection, but if just for five, 10 minutes they were able to regain that spousal connection doing something that they love, enjoying music, enjoying dancing together. And so, that's what I really like is seeing people kind of forget the difficult emotional reality of sometimes their very acute suffering, and being able to just sort of escape for an hour or two in a safe space. - Some people are here because they have cognitive impairment, and other people are caregivers, and both types of groups of people are terrific to meet and share the experience, so it was great. I love it.