Welcome to the Penn Transplant Institute Center for Living Donation. Today we're going to give you an overview of living liver donation and what you should know as a potential donor. We're very excited that you're interested in this prospect to help people who need liver transplantation and want to make sure that you are well informed along this journey. Living liver donor transplantation is a life-saving measure for people with endstage liver disease. We also believe that it is a better alternative for most transplant candidates. Organ allocation regulations are ever changing and the wait time for a deceased donor organ can be challenging and lengthy currently and for the foreseeable future. For this reason, patients are asked to advocate for themselves to find a living liver donor to expedite this process. To begin, let's review some of the issues pertaining to confidentiality and disclaimers. It is important to realize that a living liver donor may opt out at any time and for any reason up till general anesthesia is administered. Your health information as a donor is confidential and separate from the recipient's health record. The health record is also confidential and is protected under privacy laws. Therefore, all communication is strictly confidential. Recipients might be informed that there is a donor in evaluation, if a donor has been approved, or if there are no potential living donors to consider at a given point in time. You can share as much or as little as you want regarding your health information or motivations with your recipient, but we cannot and will not share the details of your health record with the intended recipient. Every donor underos a psychosocial assessment and reviews risk criteria for certain illnesses and infectious diseases such as HIV, hepatitis B and hepatitis C in accordance with the US federal policy. It is a federal crime to sell or purchase human organs, and you cannot receive anything of valuable consideration in exchange for donation. Although rare, donation could have an impact on obtaining health, life, or disability insurance in the future. If you feel any pressure in donating or coercion to donate, please make our team aware immediately. There are alternatives to living donation for both donors and recipients. As a donor, you always have the option to change your mind. Being a living liver donor is a completely voluntary act on your part. On the recipient side, the recipients physicians may choose to pursue medical management. The recipient may undergo a deceased donor transplant or recipients might be listed at multiple centers to improve their odds of being transplanted. Potentially, they could explore alternate living donor options. Let's talk about your living donor team. The living donor team follows a multiddisciplinary approach to care. All discussions and decisions are made with you, the donor, as our central focus of this process. Members of the living donor team include the living donor surgeon, the medical liver specialist known as a hepatologist, and the living donor advanced practice provider like a physician assistant or nurse practitioner. These individuals all work together to review your motivations to be a donor, as well as your medical, surgical, social, and family history. They also set expectations for the medical and surgical evaluation, the surgery, and the post-operative period, and discuss the risks of the living donor surgery from their perspective. They'll also determine if any additional individualized testing or other consults are needed. You may be asked to see a cardiologist to ensure that your heart is healthy enough for this type of surgery. The social worker will review your financial information and social support and can provide information regarding certain assistance programs that are available to you as a living donor. The psychiatrist will assess your mental health history and your coping mechanisms. The nutritionist will assess whether you require weight loss prior to donation. The pharmacist will review your medications and will let you know if any need to be temporarily stopped in preparation for surgery. Lastly, the financial coordinator will work to prevent charges associated with living donation from being build to the donor. An independent living donor advocate or ILDA will assist you in this journey. The independent living donor advocate role is required for all living donor programs in all transplant centers in the United States. The donor advocate works independently but collaboratively with the living donor team. The sole focus of the living donor advocate is to look after the interests of the donor and support the donor through the entire process. The independent living donor advocate will assist the donor with education and will help the donor understand relevant information like the consent process, the evaluation process, the surgical procedure, the medical, psychosocial and financial risks, and the important of and commitment to postdonation followup. Most of all, the independent living donor advocate works to ensure that a donor's decisions are respected and ensures the decision is informed, free from pressure by the recipient, family, or friends, and without financial compensation or manipulation. The living donor nurse coordinator is your clinical resource coordinator who screens donor inquiries, escalates, and communicates information between you and the rest of the donor team. The coordinator facilitates the evaluation process and educates the donor and their families in all phases of care. The coordinator will also prepare the donor for surgery and will ensure that the case is coordinated with the recipient team. Let's discuss the living donor process. At this point, you are already well into the referral process. You completed the online screening form at penransplant.donorscreen.org. This screening is done in partnership with the National Kidney Registry or NKR. You've had your screening labs drawn and based on those results, you have been moved forward and completed a telephone screening with the Independent Living Donor Advocate. Our screening criteria focuses on the following points. The donor must be in very good health. The donor should be between the ages of 21 and 50, but slightly older or slightly younger donors may be considered on a case-byase basis. The donor is ideally blood type compatible with the recipient though may be eligible to participate in a process called liver paired donation if not. The donor should not be significantly overweight meaning the donor should have a body mass index or BMI under 28. The donor must have health insurance and should have a primary care physician. You may request a copy of our donor and or recipient selection criteria by contacting us once you have completed viewing this video. The donor evaluation process can take several weeks to months to complete. You will be asked to come to our center two to three separate times for appointments and testing. During that time frame, you will have a medical evaluation, a surgical evaluation, a psychosocial evaluation with social work and/or psychiatry and meet the independent living donor advocate. You will also have diagnostic tests like blood work and imaging. We will ask you to provide us with age appropriate screening tests done as part of your own health maintenance such as a mammogram, hapsmear, or colonoscopy depending on your age. You may also need to meet other living donor team members and specialists if indicated like infectious disease, hematology or pulmonology. Once all testing and consults have been completed, the team will meet to discuss your care. At each point in the evaluation process, your results will be made available to you and explained to you. If you are declined as a living donor, that means the team feels that living donation is not a safe option for you. The most common reasons individuals are declined are insufficient liver volume in incompatible liver anatomy, medical concerns that are found in evaluation, or psychosocial concerns. It is also possible that you could be declined for reasons associated with the intended recipient, for example, a change in the recipient's health status. The team may also decide that additional testing is needed to determine whether you can be approved. If this is the case, your donor coordinator will notify you and explain what is needed and field any questions you may have. If you're approved for donation, this means that the team has discussed your case thoroughly and feels that all of the testing results and necessary consultations are complete and reassuring with no additional items needed. If you are approved, you will be given time to reflect on your decision before we notify the recipient team. Once you have made your decision, the recipient team will not be notified and a date for surgery will be identified. The date will be suitable for the donor, the recipient and the transplant team. The surgery is timed so that all members of the surgical team are present. In some cases, a potential liver donor may not be a suitable match for their intended recipient for reasons including blood type, size, anatomy, or age. In these instances, you may still be able to help your recipient through liver pair donation. With liver pair donation, we try to find another donor and recipient pair at our center to participate in a swap or exchange so that your intended recipient ultimately gets a liver transplant. If another match or pair is identified, you would donate portion a portion of your liver to the other recipient while their donor would donate a portion of their liver to your recipient. In some cases, non-directed liver donors or donors without an intended recipient may be integrated into liver paired donation. The benefit is that it can lead to two life-saving transplants instead of one. The donor evaluation process is typically very similar with liver paired donation. However, it may take longer to find a match and schedule surgery. We will now discuss the transplant surgery process. Special circumstances exist for distance donors and international donors that require them to stay local to our center or within a commutable distance for a period of time after surgery. If you are a distance or international donor, this will be discussed with you at length during your evaluation process to allow you to prepare. After approval and prior to surgery, you will have a pre-operative office visit with the surgical team. This pre-operative visit is with the transplant surgeon and members of the surgical team one to two weeks prior to surgery so that we can review the details and logistics that are involved with the surgery itself. We encourage you to eat a healthy, well- balanced diet, exercise routinely, including cardio exercise, and continue to maintain or potentially even lose weight if you have been asked to do so. The pre-operative visit may require several hours to meet with the surgical team, sign surgical consent forms, and have preop blood work drawn. At the visit, we will also review pre-procedure information, and discuss the day-to-day of what your hospital's stay and recovery will be like. On the day of the surgery, you will arrive at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania Clifton Center early in the morning, usually around 6:00 or 7 a.m. You and the recipient will be in separate operating rooms side by side. The donor will generally go into the operating room 1 to 2 hours before the recipient, though there may be certain circumstances in which the recipient surgery will begin first. or the donor. The anesthesia team will administer medication into the spinal area similar to an epidural to help with abdominal pain control after surgery. Then the anesthesia team administers medication to put you to sleep. After you are asleep, there will be a series of monitoring devices and IVs placed like an IV in the neck called a central line, an IV in the wrist called an arterial line which measures blood pressure, a urinary catheter to drain urine from the bladder during the surgery, and a thin plastic tube that goes down the nose into the stomach to drain it called the nasogastric tube. Other external monitoring sensors like EKG leads will be placed on you. The surgical procedure itself takes about 6 hours once the incision is made, though the duration can vary. At any point during the operation, if we feel that it's not safe to proceed for your safety or for recipient safety, the surgery will be stopped. During the surgery, your designated support person will receive text updates in the waiting room, and the living donor nurse coordinator will keep your support person updated on how things are proceeding in the operating room. It's important to remember that you may change your mind and notify the team that you do not wish to proceed with surgery up until the point of general anesthesia. Prior to reviewing the details of surgery, let's discuss some basic information about the liver. The liver is responsible for many metabolic needs of the body and makes proteins that help the blood to clot. The liver is located in the upper portion of the abdomen above the belly button on the right side and is protected by the rib cage. The liver is a large segmented organ that can be split without harm to the donor. Depending on which lobe or section of the liver is donated, it is possible that the surgeons will need to remove your gallbladder during surgery. After surgery, the donor and recipients livers will grow in size to meet the body's needs. The majority of liver regeneration occurs within the first 3 months after donation. As mentioned, the surgeries for the donor and the recipient are performed in two adjacent operating rooms. We typically bring the donor to the operating room before the recipient surgery starts. Once we ensure that everything is progressing well with the donor's surgery, then we bring the recipient to the operating room as well. There are certain circumstances in which we may begin the recipient surgery. First, the donor's surgery is started laparoscopically using a minimally invasive approach. Three small 1 to 2 cm incisions are made. One on the right side of the abdomen and two in the midline of the abdomen. Through these small incisions, the surgeons will introduce surgical tools and air is placed within the abdomen to temporary temporarily lift the abdominal wall off of the abdominal organs. During the first phase of the surgery, the liver is mobilized from the rib cage and from attachments so that the surgeon can divide the liver. During the second phase of the surgery, a larger linear incision is made from the bottom of the breast bone to the belly button so that the surgeon has better visibility and access to divide the liver and remove the portion that will be donated to the recipient. During the surgery, an X-ray called a collangiogram will be performed to visualize bile ducts that run through the liver. This gives the surgeon a road map of the bile duct anatomy. The surgeon will divide the liver into two pieces with very careful attention to the bile ducts and blood vessels. The percent of the liver tissue removed varies depending on both the donor and the recipient size and needs. If you are donating the right lobe of the liver to an adult, up to 70% of the liver may be removed. Whether you are donating the left lateral segment of the liver, the left lobe of the liver, or the right lobe of the liver, the incisions should ultimately appear as small 1 to 2 cm laparoscopic incisions on the right side of the abdomen and a long linear midline incision from below the breast bone to the belly button. If you are donating the right lobe of the liver, the surgeon will remove the gallbladder to gain better access to the liver. If the left lobe or left lateral segment is selected for donation, you may not have to have your gallbladder removed. The gallbladder is not an essential organ and you may have heard of other people having their gallbladder removed for reasons like gallstones. Once the donation surgery is finished, the breathing tube will be removed and you will be transported to the posttop anesthesia care unit called the PACU. When you wake up, the IV in the neck, in the wrist, the nasogastric tube, the urinary catheter, and an abdominal drain will be in place. You will be observed in the post anesthesia care unit to ensure that your breathing is stable, pain management is adequate, and that nausea is controlled. Next, you will be transferred to the surgical intensive care unit for very close observation and monitoring for the first 24 hours or so after surgery. During this first 24 hours, your inpatient care team will start to remove the nasogastric tube, urinary catheter, and IV from the neck and wrist when appropriate to do so. If everything is progressing well in the ICU, you'll be transferred down the hall to the inpatient transplant unit, which is staffed by physicians, surgeons, surgical fellows, advanced practice providers, and nurses who are well trained in caring for both transplant donors and recipients. The inpatient hospital stay will be approximately 5 to 7 days with the focus being on pain control, advancing your diet, and making sure that you feel stable walking, using the bathroom, and caring for yourself. Our goal is for donors to be out of bed on the first postoperative day, walking every day in the hospital room and hallway. Once the nasogastric tube is removed, the team can offer you clear fluids to drink, and if that is going well, we can advance your diet further. We'll transition you from IV pain medications to oral pain medications, including Tylenol and ibuprofen. Oral opioid pain medication is available as needed, but we encourage you to optimize non-narcotic pain control options when possible. Most patients have the abdominal drain removed prior to hospital discharge, but for some it may be necessary to keep it in place a few additional days. The team will encourage you to walk and take deep breaths with a tool called the incentive sperometer to keep your lungs inflated. This reduces your risk for pneumonia and collapsed lung tissue called adalcttois. After surgery, we recommend that you do not lift, push, or pull anything heavier than 10 lbs or roughly a gallon of milk for the first 6 weeks to give your abdomen time to heal and reduce your risk of developing a hernia. We encourage you to walk daily and maintain your strength and expedite your recovery. You may go up and downstairs if you feel able to. You may shower 48 hours after surgery, but we do not want you to submerge in any baths, pools, or hot tubs until the incisions are fully healed. This is usually around 6 weeks after surgery. We do not want you to drive for the first 4 weeks after surgery, or until cleared by your surgical team. For your safety, we need to make sure that your pain is well controlled, the anesthesia has fully worn off, and that you are no longer taking opioid pain medications before driving again. Most donors return to work about 6 to 8 weeks after surgery. But in rare instances, you may need as long as 3 months to recover if your job requires strenuous activity or heavy lifting. A small percentage of donors may experience some shifts in their normal mood, anxiety, depression, or change in their sense of body image. Our social worker and transplant psychiatrists are supportive resources to help you along your donation journey and connect you with services and support groups that can help. As discussed earlier, postsurgical followup is extremely important for your safety. We are required to see you at very specific time points and report our findings to our regulatory agencies. You will see your surgical team after hospital discharge for a posttop follow-up visit at approximately 2, 4, and 6 weeks after surgery. If everything is proceeding as expected, you'll come back to our center 3 months after surgery for a follow-up visit with the hepatology team. If you are a right lobe donor, you will have an MRI of the abdomen at this time to assess regeneration of the liver. You will also have a visit with the hepatology team at 6 months postoperatively, which can be done via tele medicine. Your living donor nurse coordinator will check in by phone with you at 1 and 2 years after donation. At each of these time points, you will have lab work done and a check of your weight. lab work for the six-month, one-year, and two-year marks can be done at a pen lab or a Quest lab. Donor safety is our number one priority. With that in mind, it is important to also recognize that liver donation is a major surgery and we must review the potential risks associated with it. If you progress through the donation process and are scheduled for surgery, we will review the surgical process and risks in great detail with you and make sure to address any questions or concerns you may have. While these potential risks and complications are possible, they are very rare events and we are proud that our program's complication rate is very, very low for our donors. Minor risks typically require a small amount of intervention or no treatment at all. And these are conditions like acid reflux, change in your bowel habits, or swelling of the ankles. Muscularkeeletal aches and pains, urinary retention, or temporary numbness or tingling in your arms or legs due to surgical positioning are also possible and typically get better with time. Minor infections like a skin infection, pneumonia, or urinary tract infection due to a urinary catheter are possible and can be treated with antibiotics. Delayed wound healing requiring wound care can occur. Moderate risks include bile leak, blood clot in the legs or lungs, pneumothorax or collapsed lung or hernia. Throughout the liver, there are small channels called bile ducts which carry bile that the liver makes. When the liver is split into two pieces, the exposed bile ducts that are on the cut surface are carefully evaluated and tied off. There is still a small chance that one of these ducts may leak and often times this is detected on the color of the fluid in the abdominal drain that is placed while you are in the hospital. In most instances, a bile leak will resolve on its own. In rare instances, a special endoscopy procedure may be needed to be performed using a scope to reach the bile duct to place a small plastic tube in the bile duct to redirect flow. As previously discussed, any surgery and hospitalization increases your risk of developing a blood clot in the legs or lungs. For this reason, we give you a lowd dose blood thinner injection in the hospital and encourage walking early on to reduce risk. Collapsed lung or pneumthorax is rare but can occur relative to the placement of the large IV in the neck called the central line. Hernas are out pouchings of the bowel through an area of weakness in the abdominal wall and these can occur at any time there is abdominal surgery. These are very rare and occur infrequently. As with any major surgery, there's always a risk of acute liver failure or even death. Since the start of liver living donation in 1988, there have been a small number of reported donor deaths across the country. However, we have not had any living liver donor deaths here at the University of Pennsylvania. As you continue to follow and optimize your health after surgery, it is important for your team to know about any new medical diagnoses that you might receive from any other medical care providers. Some medical conditions are reportable from a regulatory standpoint after donation and we may be required to draw or store blood samples from donors for up to 10 years after donation. This is for the purpose of screening for infectious diseases and investigating potentially donor- derived diseases transmitted to the recipient. There are also some conditions that develop after donation that we need to report to the recipient transplant center as they could affect the health of the recipient. Examples of these conditions include any infectious disease or cancer that is discovered during the first 2 years of post-operative care. If you report any of these conditions, the following actions may be required. The recipient may be notified. We may need to report to local, state, or federal public health authorities as required by law. Or we may need to notify the recipient transplant center if it's outside of Penn. We may also need to notify the OPN improving safety portal, which is a national donor database. Importantly, if your doctor suspects that a health issue has developed related to your donation, please notify your living donor coordinator as soon as possible so that we can coordinate the clinical evaluation here at Then Regarding financial information and billing, the recipient's insurance usually covers your medical expenses, but some insurance carriers may have special requirements to cover living donors. The recipient's insurance does not cover expenses such as lost wages or travel expenses. For those who qualify, there are government assistance grants and programs like donor shield to help cover expenses for donors who qualify. Our social worker will review these resources with you and guide you through your options. To enhance convenience and offset travel costs, some patients living beyond a 25m radius to the hospital elect to stay at the Clyde F. Barker Transplant House in Philadelphia. The Barker House is a pen guest house for donors, transplant recipients, and caregivers who would like to stay close to the hospital before or after surgery for some portion of time. For more information on the Barker House, you can visit the website listed here. National and center specific surgical outcome data is available for your review at www.srtr.org. We encourage you to review this data. Our team is available to answer any questions you may have regarding donor or recipient outcomes at Penn. Our transplant center always has a transplant surgeon, hepatologist, transplant coordinator, and advanced practice provider on call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. They are available to receive organ offers, recover deceased donor organs, perform transplant surgeries, and address urgent clinical needs of our patients. If there is a change in our ability to provide this coverage, we will notify you. If there is a local or regional emergency that impacts our ability to provide transplant care, we will use the available resources to notify you and identify a local or regional center that will help transfer your care. The United Network for Organ Sharing, known as UNOS, is a federal agency that oversees organ donation and transplant for all organs in the United States. This organization keeps the national patient waiting list for organ transplants. Lastly, UNOS and CMS require that transplants be provided in a Medicare approved transplant center to ensure the recipient's ability to have imunosuppression medication paid for by Medicare. The hospital of the University of Pennsylvania is currently an approved Medicare transplant center. The Penn Transplant Institute will notify you if our CMS or Medicare status changes. For questions about donation and transplant related concerns or to file a grievance, please contact the numbers on this slide. The outcome data sent to you is collected and reported to the scientific registry for transplant recipients. We hope this presentation has been helpful and informative. This information is also included in the instructions you have received. If you are willing to move forward with the living donor process, please contact our team at 215-662-62000. We look forward to meeting you and supporting you in your journey to give the gift of life. team at 215-66262000.