My name is Maria, and I'm an LPN with Penn Medicine Home Health Lancaster. I visit patients in their home when they get discharged from the hospital, or if they have any cares that need to be met at their home. I chose home care over another setting because you feel like you're not just in one place, you don't feel like you’re in four walls. Sometimes I go to the country and that just relaxes me. You're not always back-to-back doing the same things. I usually start my day around 8, 8:30. While my kids are getting ready for school, I'm prepping my work. Once I'm done with my work, I clock out, I take my daughter to school. Once I get to my first patient, I clock back in and that's when I start my day. - Hey, Maria. - Hello, how are you? - Good, come on in, it's so nice out. - Yes it is, you ready? - I'm ready, come on in. Once I get to a patient's home, I get my laptop. I have all the information on my computer, and as I'm doing my assessment, I'm charting everything, so you have everything in your hands. - And you're still using the wheelchair to get around? - Yes, and my scooter. Here at Penn, you feel like you're supported with your managers, whether it's within the work, or your life at home. If you need help, they’re always there to support you and guide you along. We are trusted that we're doing what we need to do out in the community to help patients. I trust that they have my back. It makes me feel good to be able to help people that are not able to go out, because I know that they're getting the care they need. By my eyes, by pictures, by assessments. You actually get to be able to just focus on that person and focus on their needs. I would like to take advantage of Penn Medicine tuition reimbursement because I want to get my RN completed. That's part of my goal within the next five years, maybe less. I am actually in the middle of getting my certification for my wound care, and that's one of my favorite things to do.  I love doing wound care. - In the meantime, make sure that you elevate as much as you can, and take care of yourself and we’ll see you Friday. - Alright, thank you. - I drive my own vehicle to work, and it also helps now that Penn Medicine gives us a reimbursement for our mileage, which helps me offset anything that I need to do for my vehicle, any gas that I spend. I love what I do. I love being able to help the community. I am bilingual, so I love being able to help those Spanish-speaking patients who don't understand English, but when they see that it's a Spanish-speaking nurse, it makes everything so much better for them. When people hear Penn Medicine, it’s always something good.