(upbeat music) - I'm excited about the new Penn Medicine Radnor because it takes what we were able to offer in our existing facility, but expand it so we can see more patients and offer more services to the community, but do it in a setting that's really open and spacious and light. - Patients will notice a difference immediately. It has a very open feel, lots of glass, and an entirely new feel to the building that I think is palpable as soon as you walk in. - When you walk in the building you have a feeling of openness, and that immediately makes one feel better. - You can actually see outside. We were closed in at the other building. So we didn't even see the sunlight until you actually left and went home from work. - It is a wonderful place to practice, to feel energy but yet calm. - It's a lot of windows, sunny, there's free parking for patients and staff. And everyone just has good energy. - The layout of the building was created so that there was always something for people to look at. So the patient waiting areas are all overlooking the beautiful courtyard that we have and the greenery. - As a provider, the greatest thing is the fact that our capacity is larger. We have more examining rooms. We have a larger waiting area. We can simply accommodate more people and do it just as efficiently as before. - From the very beginning, administration said, "Let's get the doctors, the providers in here at all the planning stages. Where should the wastebasket go? Where should the otoscopes and thalmoscopes go?" They wanted to go from the ground up in order to plan this building. - We wanted to make sure that it was simple for them to see patients in the most efficient way. So we wanted to design the exam rooms so that it was easy for them to reach whatever they needed, for them to have access to the computer, but still be able to face the patient. - There's a feeling of a small practice where everybody knows who you are, yet it's large and has all the facilities and services that you need. (upbeat music) - More and more when we talk to our patients, they want to come to one facility. And that's what Penn Medicine Radnor's offering. - It is a one-stop shop. Your lab, your radiology, pharmacy. - We can provide practically every element of cancer care here that we can provide in Center City. Take a breast cancer patient as an example. She can get a mammogram, she can get an MRI scan. If she needs radiation therapy, that will be here, chemotherapy, that will be here. And all of these elements will be within a few hundred yards of one another. - I've been at Penn for 38 years. I have seen growth and expansion and energy and I am so happy to be here for the new Penn Medicine Radnor. - I've had a number of patients that are already coming down to this facility and just absolutely love it. - I think it creates an extra sense of calm for patients. - Patients today feel often disconnected from their healthcare providers. I am hopeful and confident that the new Penn Medicine Radnor will bring back a sense of belonging and a sense of partnership. - So that when the patient comes in, they can just breathe that sigh of relief and be like, "I know they're going to take care of me. They're going to figure this out for me, and I'm going to be safe, and I'm going to be cared for, and I don't have to worry anymore."