Welcome to the podcast series from the specialists at Pen Medicine. I'm Melanie Co and joining me today to highlight penled clinical trials for glyoma is Dr. Steven Bagley. He's an assistant professor of medicine and hematology oncology at the hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. Dr. Bagley, it's a pleasure to have you join us as we get into these fascinating trials. start by telling us a little bit about the trend in current diagnosis of gloma. Thanks Melanie and it's a pleasure to be here to talk about these exciting studies. So right now in the world of go a lot's changed just in the last few years. The World Health Organization actually revamped the classification system for central nervous system tumors in 2021. And since then we rely much more on molecular diagnostics than we ever have before to form an integrated diagnosis for each patient. So this integrated diagnosis combines elements of the hystopathology or traditional grading for goas with molecular features. And one of the diseases that's been most impacted by this has been glyopblasto where there are are certain subtypes of glyopblasto that we would have used to call you know a grade three tumor but now based on certain molecular features these tumors can also be lumped into the category of grade four glyopblasto and therefore are actually eligible for many of the glyopblasto clinical trials. Well thank you for that. So looking at the current treatment landscape for glyomomas, what options are available as of right now? So for a new patient with a diagnosis of WH grade 4 glyopblasto, which by the way is by definition wild type for Idh or isoccitrate dehydrogenase. So any tumors with mutations in the Idh1 or Idh2 gene even if grade 4 hisystologically are no longer considered glyopblasto again GBM or glyopblasto is by definition IDH wild type now so when we have a new patient who's had either a surgical biopsy or a maximal safe surgical resection of glyopblasto the standard of care has been largely unchanged since 2005 and that consists of adgiant radiotherapy with a standard dose being 60 gray delivered in 30 fractions. That's given with concominant temolomide chemotherapy. So that's every single day during the six weeks of radiation. And then following a brief 4-week treatment break after radiation and chemotherapy. The standard of care is to resume maintenance cycles of teamomide where we do 5 days on 23 days off and we do that for up to six maintenance cycles as the standard. The only thing that's really changed beyond that core standard of care in recent years is the option to add tumor treating fields or tumor treating alternating electrical fields. These are relatively new treatment modality that was basically established in 2017 in a large phase 3 trial to improve outcomes when added upon standard of care with radiation and temzolamide. So alternating electrical fields are sometimes challenging for patients. You need to wear the device on the shaved scalp for a minimum of 18 hours per day on average to deliver the appropriate electrical fields into the tumor to be able to prevent cell division. So that can be an ownorous task on some patients and therefore not all patients with glyopblasto choose that part of therapy. But that's essentially been the standard. And with radiation teamomide with or without tumor treating fields, unfortunately near uniformly, patients will relapse after that treatment and will require salvage therapies in the setting of a recurrent glyopblast. While we're talking about challenges, why are brain tumors historically difficult to treat with imunotherapy? Right. So with that standard of care I just described, the outcomes are not great. nobody's being cured and we're not achieving the the sort of outcomes that any of us would hope for. And so as the rest of the world of oncology has really moved into imunotherapy as a standard treatment option across many disease types in the world of neurooncology, this has been incredibly challenging. I I would say one of the only exceptions has been in certain brain metastases, you know, from tumors that classically respond to immune checkpoint inhibitors like non small cell lung cancer or melanoma, you sometimes can see responses in the central nervous system metastases to those drugs. But for primary brain tumors, and let's again use glyobblasto as the example, there are myriad challenges associated with amunotherapy. And if we use the checkpoint inhibitor as the quintessential example, one of the main challenges is that these brain tumors like glyopblasto are immunologically cold at baseline. Meaning there is very little in the way of infiltrating tea cells. If you look at these tumors in an untreated setting, you know, under the microscope, it's really a a T- cell barren sort of tumor. And there's a number of reasons for that. One is that the tumors tend to have very low tumor mutational burden or TMBB. So there's not a lot of natural neo antigens like there would be in a disease like melanoma. Other challenges include the bloodb brain barrier. Of course getting large monoconal antibodies like a checkpoint inhibitor across an intact bloodb brain barrier is extremely challenging. Another huge problem with glyopblastoma in particular is that the micro environment is not at all conducive to amunotherapy. There's a large very large population of cells called tumor associated macrofasages or TAMs. And these TAMs in many patients with GBM can actually account for up to 50% of the entire tumor mass. And so these cells are highly immunosuppressive and they they make life much harder for vector T cells in there trying to do their job. So these are just some of the reasons. There are many more, but unfortunately amunotherapy for glyopblasto really has not panned out despite our field's best efforts thus far. Well, then tell us about how Penn is leading two studies for glomomas. Break down the first study for us that's using CARTT cells for amplified recurrent glyobblasto. Sure. So, this is a study that we're all incredibly excited about and Penn being one of the first places and a home for cartis cell therapy, we've been able to be at the forefront of trying to bring this technology into the the world of glyopblasto. And so we previously conducted two clinical trials of card T- cell product that was targeting an antigen on glyopblastoma called eGFR variant 3 or eGFR V3. And in both of those studies delivered the CARTT cells through the peripheral blood introvenously. And what we saw in those studies is that the the CARTT cells actually did make their way to the tumor and in many cases they actually did their job. they they were able to target cancer cells that expressed this target antigen EGFRV3 and were able to reduce the population of tumor cells with EGFRV3. The problem and one of the problems at least is that EGFRV3 is a very heterogeneously expressed target. So it's only present on a subset of a patient's tumor cells and in fact the cells expressing it can change over time. So you may have a tumor that's fluoridly positive for EGFRV3 at new diagnosis and then completely negative once it relapses after radiation and chemotherapy. So this problem we call tumor heterogeneity is really one of the main barriers to success that we faced in our first two trials. So to try to really tackle that issue in particular, my colleagues Donald Oor and Zev Binder worked for many years in the lab to develop a bvevalent CARTT cell product. So this is now a product we're putting into patients in the current trial that is simultaneously targeting two different tumor associated antigens in glyobblasto. One is eGFR, epidermal growth factor receptor. And in particular, the target is something called eGFR epitope 806, which is basically a confirmational form of eGFR that's not normal and is typically only expressed when there is amplification of eGFR or a point mutation in eGFR. You get this unusual confirmation we call epitope 806. And so one of the antibodies in the CAR construct binds to that particular epitope. The second is IL13 receptor alpha 2 uh which is a wellrecoognized tumor associated antigen that we think is expressed in about 3/4 of patients with glyobblasto. So the idea here is that if we can target both eGFR epitope 806 and IL13 receptor alpha 2 simultaneously we have a much higher likelihood of having a meaningful anti-tumor response because we're going after two antigens at once rather than one. And so that's been the major advance for this trial with the second advance being that now delivering the product intratheally. So we implant Omia reservoirs in these patients which are small subcutaneous reservoirs on the scalp that allow us to directly inject the tea cells into the patient's spinal fluid. So we're doing a direct central nervous system delivery rather than you know injecting these through the peripheral blood and sort of hoping that most of them make their way through the bloodb brain barrier and into the tumor. So that's the foundation for the current study which is actively occurring patients at PEN. Will you expand a little on what distinguishes this study from previous attempts at cart and glyopblasto? Is it just delivery? Is there plenty more? Please expand on that. So the delivery part is unique at our institution given that we had previously done really only peripheral blood delivery but there are other institutions that are using this intratheal or intraventricular delivery technique particularly in pediatric brain tumors across the country but what I think is the most exciting part about our study is the bvealent nature of the cartis cell product and this idea that we're able to tackle two antigens rather than one in the same treatment. This is really the first time in my career that I've seen us actively trying to address this tumor heterogeneity problem which has really plagued our field as a whole. Now talk about the second study the ATRA to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of two investigational drugs in treatment recurrent IDH mutant gloma. Speak about that a little bit. Sure. So this clinical trial is trying to target a completely different population than the one I just discussed. So the the CARTT cell trial is really geared for patients with grade four glyobblastoma which as I mentioned must be IDH wild type. The second trial involving atra or all transretinoic acid is aiming to treat patients with recurrent Idh mutant glomomas. And so glomomas that harbor an IDH mutation are are really a completely different disease than glyobblasto. Idh mutant glomomas tend to happen in younger adults. So they have a different epidemiology. They have a much longer and more indolent natural history. So these tumors are tend to be more slow growing. They can be progressing in a patient for many years before the patient comes to medical attention. And they are initially highly responsive to treatment. So a patient with a newly diagnosed Idh mutant astroytoma or a newly diagnosed Idh mutant oligodendro regardless of the grade whether it's grade 2 three or four these patients will respond extraordinarily well to radiation and to alkalating chemotherapy such as tezoleamide or lamine and they can sometimes go 5 10 15 years before having any any recurrence or progression of the disease. The problem in these patients is that when they do eventually recur, there is no proven standard of care and we use a variety of different approaches including multiple repeat courses of radiation. We switch to different alkalating chemotherapies, but unfortunately these tend to be young adults and most of them are are going to lose their lives to the disease despite our best efforts. So there's a huge unmet medical need for better treatments for recurrent Idh mutant gloma. So this clinical trial using all transretinoic acid or ATRA is developed based on some very interesting science in the laboratory of Naduka among at Penn who's been studying and has developed an expertise in Idh mutant glomomas over many years and one of the things he really wanted to figure out was you know how do these tumors kind of evade the patients immune system for all of these years as they're slowly progressing in the brain prior to coming to medical attention. attention. And so through a variety of elegant experiments, one of the things he figured out was that Idh mutant tumors are highly deficient in retinoic acid, which is a vitamin A metabolite that is responsible for a variety of normal cellular functions in normal health and also in embryology. But what happens in these Idh mutant cancer cells is that they're highly deficient in retinoic acid signaling. And because of that, the immune landscape of these tumors is marketkedly deranged. They're completely barren of tea cells. It's almost as if the immune system is ignoring the tumor. And in Dr. Malor's animal models of Idh mutant gloma when he restores the retinoic acid by administering all transretinoic acid or atra orally to these mice what you find in the tumors when you study them post atra is that you've completely restored normal immune homeostasis and you end up bringing a lot more te- cells in there and in some of the cases of the mice actually eradicating their tumors and so this was really fascinating work for us to see and we moved very quickly to translate this into a clinical trial for people with recurrent Idh mutant gloma. So we administer ATRA in an oral formulation to these patients and we're giving it in combination with a PD1 inhibitor or immune checkpoint inhibitor with the idea that combining something that is actively bringing te- cells into the tumor like ATRA with a PD1 inhibitor that is further allowing for some of the negative signaling that tends to keep TE- cells inactive against these tumors. We're restoring that as well. So, we're optimistic that the combination may result in durable immune responses in this patient population. Absolutely fascinating and very hopeful. Now, what are some of the key findings you're hoping result from these studies? And Dr. Bagley, how do you envision this research translating directly to patient care? Take us from bench to bedside and how this could change the landscape of gloma treatments. Well, for the CARTT cell trial, this is a first in human phase one trial. And so our primary objectives are really to understand the safety, the toxicity profile of this. Is this something that can be given to patients with a reasonable side effect profile? And then we're also trying to figure out what's the right dose. We're studying multiple dose levels here. And what we're learning so far is that when you're delivering it intratheally or right into the CNS, um, you really don't need much. So that the doses of cells we're we're using here are are orders of magnitude lower than what you might use in a a patient who's getting treated for leukemia or lymphoma in the blood. And so we we really want to categorize the safety profile and the dose. But what's been really exciting about this study is that we're already seeing some evidence of tumor shrinkage and in some of the patients who've been treated. And so even though it's a phase one, if we're able to detect a promising efficacy signal as well, then that really allows us to push faster in trying to get a phase 2 trial open and start to move this closer to the point where we can really focus on efficacy and try to understand how do we optimize this to lead to the best possible patient outcome. So I think we're in a very exciting inflection point with regard to that study for the Idh mutant trial of ATRA there. This is a phase 2 trial. So you know because ATRA has been around for a long time and has been used for diseases like acute myoid leukemia for many years. Uh we we really know about the safety profile already. We we sort of know what to expect. And so a true phase one study wasn't necessary here. And we were able to kind of launch right into a trial that is designed to give us a a go no-go signal or a binary yes no answer about whether we're actually seeing enough effectiveness here to warrant a larger randomized study in the future. So we hope that when this trial is done we have a positive signal where we're able to say we saw enough here to take this into a randomized setting in a multic-enter clinical trial. Thank you so much Dr. Bagley. we wrap up here, how can physicians refer a patient that they think would be a good candidate for these trials and what would you like the key takeaways to be? So, the easiest way to refer patients is to either contact me directly by email at sbagleypen.upen.edu or to contact our nurse navigator whose name is Molly Cassidy and her information is available on our pen brain tumor center website. either of us once we receive an initial referral email will get the patient into the queue to be seen typically within 1 to two weeks and even faster in some cases. The most important thing for the CARTT cell trial in terms of eligibility is that patients need to have an eGFR amplified tumor and for the purposes of determining eligibility we only accept results from one lab which is a laboratory called neoenomics. And so the earlier that we know about a patient who's a particular possible candidate for this study, we can actually get that process of ordering their tumor tissue testing at neoenomics underway as soon as possible. And the faster we get that result back, the faster we can put them in the queue for TE- cell collection and eventual product manufacturing. So the the rule of thumb with that trial is the earlier we get a referral, the better. And it's smart to even refer patients before they have a recurrence of the glyopblastoma. So for example, if a patient's doing great, has just finished radiation therapy and there's no signs of the tumor, that's actually the perfect time to send them to us and get them in the queue. For the Idh mutant study of ATRA, the same rules apply in terms of getting in touch with myself or our nurse navigator to refer patients. But here we need to have patients who have a known diagnosis of an Idh mutant gloma. Again, any grade, any hisystologology is okay. And they must have already failed at least radiation. So, in some cases, they will have also failed chemotherapy, but they need to have at least failed radiation. And then we can evaluate those patients to talk to them about this clinical trial. Thank you so much, Dr. Baggley, for sharing your incredible expertise with us today. And to refer your patient to Dr. Bagley at Pen Medicine. Please call our 247 provider line at 877937 PEN or you can submit your referral via our secure online referral form by visiting our website at penmed.org/refer your patient. That concludes this episode from the specialists at pen medicine. I'm Melanie Cole. Thanks so much for joining us today.