Welcome. Today we're talking about Pen Orthopedics shoulder and elbow, the full patient continuum of care. My guest is Dr. Andrew Kuntz. He's the director of the shoulder study group and an assistant professor of orthopedic surgery at the hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. Doctor, I'm so glad to have you with us. Tell us a little bit about what makes shoulder and elbow orthopedic care unique at Penn Orthopedics. Absolutely. Thank you for having me. Um, you know, we we have a number of things that make our division unique. Uh, but we think probably the the most unique and uh most important is that we take a very comprehensive approach to treating our patients. Uh, while all the providers within the shoulder and elbow division uh are surgeons, we are not just operating. We see our patients uh from initial patient evaluation and continue their care straight through to uh recovery uh and are involved in all aspects of patient care. Doctor, what are some of the most common conditions that you treat and see there? We see everything uh involving the shoulder and elbow. Probably the most common conditions are uh rotator cuff tears, uh shoulder arthritis, uh shoulder instability, uh and then for the elbow, we see a number of different elbow conditions including uh tendonopathies about the elbow, tendinitis, um tendon ruptures, and then trauma including elbow fractures and shoulder fractures. Then let's talk about some of those and and starting with the patient evaluation process at Penn. What's different about that? Well, at most of the places where we see patients, we have a very complete um center available. And so, not only are we seeing patients and evaluating them in the office, but we have on-site diagnostics including uh all aspects of radiology. We have lab facilities and then we have other providers and other services or service lines uh in the same facility. So, this could be our uh medicine colleagues, our cardiologists, our anesthesiologists and pain providers, our rheatologists. So for any uh different medical condition or aspect of their care, patients can be se seen in the same location and receive care uh right in one spot. Well, that segus beautifully into my next question, doctor, is the pain protocol. Tell us a little bit about that because it's a pretty hot topic especially in orthopedics today. So tell us about the Penn Orthopedics shoulder pain protocol and the benefits of them. Sure. So, this is a protocol we developed or started developing a number of years ago. And the goal really was to improve the patient experience following shoulder surgery. Shoulder surgery is notorious for being painful and taking a while to recover from. And what we wanted to do was try to make that more tolerable for our patients. And so we worked together as a division of shoulder and elbow surgeons along with our anesthesia colleagues and the pain management providers to come up with a protocol that would kind of come at the post-operative pain from all different angles and try to reduce pain, improve recovery and at the same time reduce the amount of narcotics that our patients uh were requiring. So how did you come up with that protocol? What what makes it different doctor than other centers? Sure. So what used to happen and what still happens in some locations is patients go through surgery and then are prescribed a single medication and typically a narcotic pain medication to manage their pain after surgery. What we did was we wanted to look to to preemptively uh uh manage their pain. And so we have medications that are given prior to surgery, non-narcotic medications given prior to surgery. We then have medications during surgery and then we have medications after surgery. And these include uh simple medications such as Tylenol, anti-inflammatory medications, medications that work on nerve type pain. And then we also use a peripheral nerve block, which is a essentially a numbing medicine that gets injected around the nerves that uh run down the arm to help numb the pain after surgery. And with that we're using a lot of non-narcotic medications again before during and after surgery to manage pain and then reduce the amount of narcotic patients uh are receiving. Then what were some of the challenges that you faced? Have you received push back from patients who maybe would like more of the narcotic pretty strong pain medication? Tell us about some of the challenges. Sure. So some of the challenges in the beginning are just coming up with a protocol that that works for everybody. You know, our protocol is uh not just um by random chance. It's based on a lot of basic science and clinical research looking to make sure that the medications we're using one help alleviate pain but don't negatively impact healing. And so working through this again with our pain and anesthesia colleagues as well as our uh division looking at which medications were best and coming up with a consensus that could be used across the board. And then once we had that uh grouping of medications, it's really a a process to get everybody on board in terms of training everybody in the uh operating room facility. uh training everybody for afterwards to make sure that again the patients are getting the medications before, during and after whereas before it used to just be medications afterwards. And then to your point about patient expectations, you know, we we do a lot now to educate patients ahead of surgery, to talk about our pain protocol, to talk about the overall experience and the fact that pain is a normal process of recovery, but with these different medications, we can minimize that pain and make it a a much more tolerable process. uh and the fact that we use a number of different medications rather than just one medication. We want to make sure that the patients are aware of that and the importance of all the different medications rather than just focusing on a single medication. That is such an important point. Doctor, what's on the horizon for Penn Orthopedic shoulder and elbow team? Well, we you know the the great thing about this uh pain protocol is that it seems to be a win-win situation. Not only are we um seeing that patients are happier with their recovery, they're reporting better pain management and we are using far fewer narcotics. So, it is a truly a win-winwin. What we want to do is we're now rolling this out to multiple different sites across the city to make sure it's standardized not just at our Penn Presbyterian location, but at our other uh facilities across the city and and beyond. And then we're also looking, we're constantly looking to refine and improve upon the medications. We're looking to use longerlasting nerve uh blocks so that patients have even longer pain control. Um and so it's really just a matter of uh kind of further disseminating this protocol and tweaking the medications as we go to make sure we're using the the most upto-date and current uh strategies. Then as we wrap up, tell other providers what you would like them to know about when to refer and tell us a little bit about your team. Sure. So we have a uh team here that includes uh three shoulder and elbow specific uh surgeons and we have PAs uh and nurse practitioners and uh uh surgical schedulers uh that work with us. We work with the orthopedic surgery residents as well. And then we interact closely with the other divisions within our department including the sports medicine team uh and and others. But what we really want people to know is that we are we are here to take care of uh patients. Um we are here to take care of uh our our referers patients and we see anything and everything shoulder and elbow. There's not anything that we we can't take care of. Uh we want to be easy to access and uh provide excellent care to anybody that comes through our doors. Great information. Thank you so much, doctor, for joining us today. And that wraps up this episode of Pen Medicine podcast series. Head on over to our website at penmed.org for more information and to get connected with one of our providers. If you found this podcast informative, please share on your social media and be sure to check out all the other fascinating podcasts in our library. I'm Melanie Cole.