Pennisa Hickin Hospice is amazingly supportive, guiding, passionate, love, amazingly compassionate, hope, extraordinary. Hospice is end of life care, but end of life care in a very full sense. When there are no further treatments that can make an illness better, um the focus of treatment shifts to comfort and shifts to taking care of people in the best way we can. We really try and wrap our arms around the patient and the family to be with them and support them as their p their loved one and our patient goes through physical changes, emotional changes, psychological changes. Penwith Sahicken Hospice is different from other hospices in that we have a beautiful inpatient unit uh in written house square. There is a lovely kitchen area where families can come in and prepare a meal or gather together. We celebrate patients lives by understanding what it is that is important to the patient. Asking them simple question, how can we help? What's important to you? What do you envision for the next six weeks, three months, six months, whatever time frame is important to them? They went along with our plan. We always wanted my mom to be at home surrounded by loved ones and Penn made that possible. Um, she got the same care she would have had had she been inatient somewhere, but she was at home comfortable in her own bed, surrounded by family all the time. And so I mean what more could you ask for really? It's it was perfect. We have counselors and social workers dedicated to bereavement support specifically and and that includes for adults and children. Pen Hospice had a wonderful program for kids. It was Camp Aaron and it's a weekend camp for kids who have lost a loved one. When we first got there, we make pictures of our loved ones. And then Saturday, we play kickball and all these sports and activities. And then we make luminary bags. And that night, we have a luminary ceremony and acting and singing and a big party. And then Sunday is when we have like just we all come together and we just say our goodbyes. The hospice itself was wonderful, but it was actually through their music therapist, Molly Hicks, that um was she was just incredible. It was very effortless in terms of them kind of training me to give the kind of care that was needed. And then of course when I came in house, it was, you know, 24/7 and I didn't have to worry about any tactical health providing things to do. I could just be a supportive, you know, husband. What the whisticken hospice team does is support them in achieving their goals. It's not about death. It's about living. It's about living every moment to the fullest. So why give to Penwood Signospice? Because we're not able to do all the things we can do or want to do with the money we receive from the insuranceances that pay for people's care. There is a gap in that funding and in and in order for us to provide our innovative care such as the music therapy, the art therapy, the grief programs, the camp erands, the the grief reach, the legacy projects that we do. We need support to continue to do that. Donations are so important because um it's going straight to the hands of the people that need it and those people are you know working miracles every day. This experience and pen whisten hospice offerings touched me so deeply and I just felt that that was where I should be able to give some money. It really was the best decision we ever made for my mom and we we wish we had made it sooner because, you know, she really got the best care available.