Welcome to the Penn Center for Living Donations education session. Today we will be reviewing the process for living kidney donation. Before we get started, I'd like to take a moment to recognize your inspiring altruism and generosity in considering being evaluated as a living kidney donor. It is our hope that this information will assist you in making a well-informed decision about living kidney donation. The purpose of this video is to review all aspects of living kidney donation. Together, we will be covering all of the information you see here. We will review general information about your kidneys, an overview of living donation, including alternatives for donors and recipients, and confidentiality associated with the process. We will review our multiddisciplinary team including roles and responsibilities, the donor process including screening, referral evaluation and donor selection. We will discuss paired kidney exchange and the voucher program. We will review preparation for surgery, the donor surgery itself, potential risks and complications as well as your expected hospital stay and followup with our team. And finally, you will hear about short-term and long-term living donor outcomes, financial considerations, and resources and support for individuals like yourself going through a living kidney donor evaluation. We encourage you to take notes regarding any questions that may arise during the presentation so that you can review them with your living donor coordinator. Let's start with some general information. We will now talk about your kidneys. You have two kidneys located in the middle part of your back on the right and left side of your spine. They are behind the majority of your abdominal organs. The kidneys play an important role in our bodies. They remove waste, toxins, and extra fluids. The kidneys balance electrolytes. They control blood pressure through adjustment of fluids, electrolytes, and release of hormones. The kidneys help support red blood cell production and overall keep you healthy. They make urine and urine is the byproduct of removing toxins and managing the balance of electrolytes. You only need one kidney to live a healthy and fulfilling life. One can safely be donated while the other remains in place. During the evaluation process, we review your kidney function and overall health to ensure that your health will not be compromised with one kidney. Things you should know. Patients with endstage kidney disease have the option of pursuing transplant or using kidney replacement therapy, which is also known as dialysis. For a kidney transplant, the kidney can come from either a deceased donor or a living donor. Receiving a kidney from a living donor has many advantages over one from a deceased donor. Living kidney donor recipients have better outcomes. A living donor kidney typically starts working immediately, whereas 30 to 50% of deceased donor kidneys take up to two weeks to start working. This means that a living donor transplant recipient is less likely to need dialysis shortly after surgery. In addition to working immediately, living donor kidneys last longer. Recipients of a living donor kidney have shorter hospital stays and even fewer complications. Wait times for deceased donor kidneys are long. There is little or no weight for an organ from a living kidney donor, whereas the weight for a deceased donor kidney is 5 years on average. Organ allocation regulations are changing and the wait time for a deceased donor organ offer could be longer in the future. The process of finding a kidney donor can be challenging for recipients. Individuals are asked to advocate for themselves to identify a living kidney donor and those in need of a kidney transplant can talk with their transplant team about how to get started. Living donation is a voluntary act and you as the donor have the option to change your mind up until the point of general anesthesia. We offer you a medical alibi if needed. In other words, you can choose to opt out of the process without anyone outside of the living donor team being notified. Recipients have other options for kidney replacement therapy, including dialysis, disease donor transplant, listing at multiple centers, or exploration of alternative living donor options, confidentiality, and disclaimers. As a potential kidney donor, you have several rights. As we already discussed, you have the right to opt out of this process at any time. Additionally, your health information is secure and separate from the recipient's record. Only the necessary information is shared with your recipient's team. Similarly, the recipient health information is also confidential and protected under privacy laws. All communication is strictly confidential. Recipients may be informed that there is a donor in evaluation, that a donor has been approved, or that there are no potential living donors to consider. You, as a potential donor, are able to share as much or as little information with your recipient as you like. It is a federal crime to sell or purchase human organs. You as the donor cannot receive anything of valuable consideration in exchange for donation, including monetary gifts. Although rare, donation could have an impact on obtaining health, life, or disability insurance in the future. We review these impacts with you during your individual evaluation. It is not okay to be coerced into donating a kidney. If you feel any pressure in donating, please notify the donor team immediately. And finally, this presentation will highlight important information so you can provide informed consent regarding potential kidney donation. Now we will review the living donor team. As a potential living donor, you will meet many members of the multiddisciplinary team during the evaluation process. You, as the donor, are the most important member of this team. The independent living donor advocate or ILDA is a specialized social worker who works with the team. We will review the roles of the shortly. Your living donor nurse coordinator is your main point of contact throughout your donor evaluation. You will interact with many of the health care professionals listed here, including your donor surgeon, kidney specialist or nefologist, advanced practice provider or a different type of social worker who sits apart from the ILDA. You may also interact with a financial coordinator as well as our pharmacist who will review your current medications. You may be asked to meet with a dietitian, psychiatrist, or other specialists as part of the evaluation as well. This is at the discretion of the donor team. We will now review each member of the team's role and responsibilities in more detail. Roles and responsibilities of the independent living donor advocate. As mentioned, the independent living donor advocate or ILDA is a specialized type of social worker that meets with you during the evaluation. All transplant centers in the United States are required to provide an ILA team for all potential donors. This works independently but collaboratively with the donor team. As you know, living organ donation is completely voluntary. The role of the is to protect the donor's health and safety. The sole job of the is to protect and promote the interests of the donor and support the donor through the entire process. Thea assists you in obtaining, educating, and understanding all relevant information. They will review the consent process, the evaluation process, surgical procedure, medical and psychosocial risks, financial risks, and the importance of and commitment to post-donation followup. The ILA will respect the donor's decision and ensure that the decision is informed, free from pressure, and without financial compensation. The next person from our team that you've interacted with is your living donor nurse coordinator. Our living donor coordinators are your main point of contact with the living donor team. The living donor nurse coordinator screens inquiries, escalates and communicates information to the team, facilitates the evaluation process, educates donors and families in all phases of care. They help prepare the donor for surgery, coordinates progression of the case with the recipient team, acts as a clinical resource to the donor, and answers questions and facilitates post-donation care. Other members of the living donor team are listed here. The living donor surgeon, kidney specialist, and a all work together. They review your individual risks for kidney donation and set expectations for the evaluation, surgery, and post-operative period. They discuss the risks of living donor surgery and will determine if you need individualized testing or require consultation with other specialists. The social worker reviews your financial and social support, provides information on donor assistance programs, and assesses psychosocial issues related to donation. A psychiatrist that works exclusively with the living donor team assesses your mental health history and coping mechanisms to ensure that it is not only physically appropriate but emotionally and psychosoccially appropriate for you to donate. Our dietician assesses if your weight is healthy for surgery and whether you need to make any changes in the short or long term to maintain healthy habits. The pharmacist reviews your medications. They may recommend you discontinue some medications before surgery. And finally, the financial coordinator works to prevent charges associated with living donation from being build to the donor. The donor's evaluation process is covered under the recipient's health insurance and the living donor should not incur any costs related to evaluation or donation. We are now going to talk a little more about the donation process. The living organ donation process is made up of many steps. This begins with the screening of your online referral form followed by education, informed consent, and the medical, surgical, and psychological evaluation. We then move on to the donor selection and approval phase. If you are approved, we begin preparing for surgery by scheduling your pre-operative visits and the surgery itself. Following surgery, we have the post-operative recovery in the hospital as well as the care following hospital discharge. Screening criteria. In order to donate a kidney, you need to be in very good physical and mental health. Your body mass index or BMI must be less than 35. You must be between the ages of 18 and 70 years old. Slightly older candidates are considered on a case-byase basis. Non-directed donors or donors without an identified recipient must be at least 21 years of age. We do require you to have a primary care doctor as well as health insurance. You may request a copy of our donor or recipient selection criteria by contacting your coordinator directly. The evaluation phase can take a minimum of four to six weeks. This includes an assessment by the ILDA as well as a thorough medical and surgical evaluation. You will complete a psychosocial evaluation in which you will meet with our social worker and you may even be asked to meet with our psychiatrist. You will also complete all diagnostic and lab testing. We require donor candidates to be up todate on all age appropriate cancer screenings such as mammogram, papsmear, and colonoscopies. These routine tests should be completed through your primary care provider. Please bring a copy of your results to our team for review. Some candidates will be asked to meet with other specialists, which may include cardiology, infectious disease, or hematology. Some parts of this evaluation or tests may need to be repeated after 6 months have lapsed to ensure you remain eligible to donate. There are risks to donor evaluation. During the evaluation, you will have a CT scan which requires IV contrast. It is possible there could be an allergic reaction to the contrast agent used during the CT scan. Due to the testing that is required, we may discover reportable infections or serious medical conditions that can prevent donation and would require follow-up with your primary care doctor. We may discover previously unknown or adverse genetic findings. These findings may require additional testing at your own expense. All of our decisions are focused on the safety of the donor. Long-term medical implications of organ donation have not been fully identified. There are potential risks to the kidney donor surgery and this will be discussed further with you during your evaluation. Donor selection and approval. At each point in the evaluation process, your results will be made available to you. The multiddisciplinary team meets regularly to review the safety for each patient to donate. The multi-disiplinary committee's decision will be shared with you directly. You may be declined, approved, or the team may recommend additional testing. If you are approved, you will have time to reflect on your decision. In the event you decide to opt out of this process, your decision will be kept completely confidential. If you choose to proceed, the recipient team will be notified that a donor has been approved. After you are approved, the team reviews your matching and suitability for direct donation. Paired kidney exchange is a solution for incompatible pairs. The team may recommend you donate through the paired kidney exchange program if you are incompatible by age, blood type, matching, kidney size, or even anatomy. In this program, your kidney would be transplanted into an anonymous recipient and your intended recipient who needs the kidney would receive a living donor kidney from an anonymous donor. Even if you are compatible with your recipient, the donor may elect to donate through the paired exchange. We refer to this as compatible paired donation. This allows the donor to maximize their gift by helping more than one recipient get transplanted. Here at Penn, we participate in paired exchange through the national kidney registry. There are many benefits of using the paired kidney exchange program. Better match longerlasting. Donating through paired exchange allows the recipient to get a better match kidney, which means that it may last longer. We also improve transplant outcomes. Parrot exchange and living donation both allow the transplant to occur before the recipient needs dialysis. Research shows that less time on dialysis is better for the transplanted kidney and for patients overall. This program also removes uncertainty and allows people to schedule conveniently using PAR exchange. The surgery can be scheduled at the optimal time for both the donor and the recipient. Pen medicine participates in the NKR's paired kidney exchange program. The NKR's voucher program or the advanced donation program allows a living kidney donor to choose the most convenient time frame for their donation surgery regardless of when the recipient is ready for transplant. There are a variety of re reasons that donor and recipient pairs utilize the voucher program. Advanced donation allows the donor and recipient to avoid recovering at the same time. Donors may also wish to schedule their surgery within a specific time frame due to work life commitments. This program is often used when the donor is ready for surgery, but the recipient is not yet ready for transplant. The voucher program is also utilized by nondirected donors. Non-directed donors wish to help others in need but have not yet identified a specific recipient. Non-directed donors donate a kidney to an anonymous recipient within the NKR. In return, they receive a family voucher, which looks out for the family's potential future kidney transplant needs. On the family voucher, the donor identifies five family members or friends that if they were ever in need of a kidney transplant, the first person in need would receive a living donor kidney transplant through the registry. Your living donor coordinator can provide you with additional information on the advanced donation and voucher programs. Now we will take some time to discuss the donor surgery. Preparing for surgery. A date for surgery will be identified that is suitable for the donor, recipient, and transplant team. Special circumstances exist for distance donors and international donors. If you live more than 3 hours from our center, we may require you to stay locally for a period of time after surgery. Pre-operative visit. There is no special diet necessary to prepare you for surgery. We encourage you to make healthy food choices. Some patients are asked to maintain or continue to lose weight. You should avoid dietary supplements for 1 to two weeks before surgery. We recommend that all donors abstain from alcohol for 4 weeks before and 4 weeks after surgery. The pre-operative appointment is typically scheduled on a Monday approximately 1 to two weeks prior to surgery. This visit is 3 to four hours long. During this time, you will have your pre-operative labs drawn. You will meet with team members, including a nurse coordinator, advanced practice provider, and donor surgeon. You will review expectations for recovery and sign the surgical consents. The day of surgery, you will arrive very early on the morning of surgery at the hospital of the University of Pennsylvania Pavilion, Clifton Center. You will meet with an anesthesiologist who explains the risks of general anesthesia. You will be sedated for approximately 4 hours. Monitoring and assisted devices will be placed, including a breathing tube for the ventilator, a foley catheter in your bladder to drain urine, and external monitoring sensors. Remember that your surgical team is focused on your safety. If at any point the team believes you are at risk of significant complications or death, the surgery will be stopped. You as a donor are able to change your mind up until you are sedated. What to expect during surgery. You will be having an efrectomy in which one of your kidneys will be removed. The surgeon will discuss which kidney will be removed as well as the incisions when you meet with them. The majority of our surgeries are done laparoscopically or robotically which uses small incisions. This requires two to five small incisions that are less than a half an inch in length. The camera and surgical instruments are inserted into these small incisions. The kidney is removed through a larger incision. Our surgeons typically place the main incision in incision either at your pant line or near your belly button. Absorbable sutures are used at all incisions and healing takes at least 4 to 6 weeks. There will be discomfort during the recovery, but we will work hard to ensure your pain is manageable. In very rare circumstances, blood transfusion may be needed during or after the surgery. After surgery, you will wake up in the post anesthesia care unit or PACU. You will stay here for close monitoring of your vital signs while you continue to wake up from anesthesia. You will then be transferred to the abdominal transplant floor at the HUP Pavilion Clifton Center. Donors are typically discharged after staying one or two nights in the hospital. We will be reviewing the milestones for discharge shortly. The recovery period at home is typically 4 to 6 weeks. Most donors are able to return to usual activities after 4 weeks. However, you will still have restrictions on activities and lifting. Donors are permitted to return to more demanding activities and heavy lifting after 3 months. The hospital stay and going home. Following surgery, your goals are to get out of bed early and ambulate frequently. Once you are permitted to walk in the halls, you should do this a few times per day. Deep breathing. We want you to keep breathing deeply to keep your lungs open. Pain management. We will ensure your pain is manageable. Your pain should be at a level that allows you to take deep breaths and walk around. Advancing diet. Your diet will be advanced to a regular diet. Donors are discharged when they are able to stay hydrated and tolerate food. Their pain is managed appropriately and they are able to walk in the halls without assistance. Donors are discharged from the hospital with medications to treat pain and constipation. As you learned earlier, kidney donor surgery is minimally invasive and has a low rate of complications, but this is still a surgery and all surgeries carry potential risks. I'm going to take the next few moments to review the risks related to kidney donation. There are medical risks related to surgery, which we have categorized as mild, moderate, and major. There are also potential mental health and financial risks. Minor medical risks require little or no treatment and include an infection at your wound or IV site, urinary tract infection, pneumonia, or an increase in blood pressure. Moderate risks require a procedure to treat the donor and these include blood clot, bleeding, decrease in kidney function, hernia, pain or numbness at the surgical site, discomfort with stretching or moving, bowel obstruction, and urinary retention. Major life-threatening risks include collapsed lung, death, kidney failure requiring dialysis, and complications related to future pregnancies. Mental health risks include new or increased anxiety regarding dependence on others, generalized anxiety, feelings of guilt or sadness, post-traumatic stress disorder, and depression. Financial risks include future health problems related to donation that might not be covered by your insurance. There is a possibility that you may be denied medical insurance, disability benefits, or even life insurance in the future. We will now review post-donation care, post- discharge precautions and restrictions. It is important that you follow these restrictions after surgery. Activity and lifestyle adjustments. Light activity like walking is encouraged early on, but heavy lifting and strenuous exercise should be avoided for several weeks. Donors should not lift, push, or pull more than 10 lbs for the first 6 weeks following surgery. This is crucial to avoid hernia and injury. You should not drive for the first two weeks at a minimum. Returning to work depends on pain control, energy levels, and lifting requirements. Most donors resume normal routines within four to six weeks. If your job requires you to lift more than 50 pounds, you will require a full 3 months off for recovery. We will discuss your restrictions in more detail at your follow-up clinic visit. Medication and self-care. Donors should avoid certain medications like non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs or NSAIDs. This class includes medications like ibuprofen, Motrin and neproxin. Donors should also avoid using herbal supplements. Pain will be managed with the prescribed medications. Hydration and nutrition support healing during this time. Monitoring for health changes. Any serious health issue like infection or cancer must be reported to our center as they may affect the recipient. The transplant team will coordinate care and report if needed. Although rare, it is possible that you may not return to your pre-donation lifestyle. You may experience body image issues, guilt, anxiety, or depression. If you feel you are becoming depressed or chronically anxious, please get help and talk to your healthcare provider. Many donors find it helpful to speak with friends, family, and other donors during this time. Post-surgical followup. We will follow you for the first two years after surgery. Here you can see an outline of the required followup after donation. Regular followup is important for your overall health as well as the health of your remaining kidney. 3 weeks after surgery, you will meet with your surgical team for an in-person clinic visit and complete lab testing. At this visit, we will assess your progress, review your activity restrictions, and answer any questions you might have. Six months after surgery, you will see our nephrology team. Visits can occur via telea medicine or in-person visits in Philadelphia. Blood and urine tests are required and should be completed one week before the visit. At the one-year and two-year anniversaries, you will speak with our team to review your blood pressure, current health status, and recent lab work. Our team may require a tele medicine or in-person nefrology visit at this time. After donation, it is important to stay up to date with your annual physicals with your primary care provider. All follow-up kidney labs will be ordered by and reviewed by our team for the first two years after surgery. Thereafter, you will continue to have your regular annual follow-up with your primary care doctor or local nefologist. Reportable conditions after donation. There are some medical conditions that if they develop must be reported to the transplant center as they may affect the health of the recipient. Examples include any infectious disease or cancer discovered in the first two years. If one of these conditions occurs, we are required to notify certain organizations. We may be required to notify the recipient of your kidney, local, state, or federal public health authorities as this is required by law, the recipient transplant center, and a national donor database, the OPT, improving safety portal. If your doctor suspects that a health issue is related to donation, please notify your living donor coordinator as soon as possible. Our living donor team will coordinate a clinical evaluation here at Penn Transplant Institute. We will now review donor resources and support. financial information and billing. The recipient's insurance typically covers your medical expenses, but some insurance carriers have special requirements to cover living donors as part of the recipient insurance. While our goal is to minimize any expenses, there may be expenses to you. Financial responsibilities associated with living donation, including post-donation expenses, may not be covered by insurance. Unfortunately, insurance does not cover expenses related to travel or lost wages, but you may be eligible for financial support. There are two different programs that offer support for things such as lost wages, travel costs, or even dependent care. The National Living Donor Assistance Center, or NLDAC, commonly known as NADAC, is available to all donors. The National Kidney Registry's donor shield program is available to all patients that donate here at Penn. Please discuss your interest in these programs when you meet with our social worker. They will be able to answer additional questions and assist you with the process. The National Kidney Registry offers benefits to living donors through their donor shield program. All pen living donors are eligible. The benefits of this program include lost wage reimbursement, donation related travel costs, lodging, meals, dependent care, and pet care. Additional protection in the event you develop a complication, legal support to assist with life insurance discrimination or unlawful employment termination. In the unlikely event that you would need a transplant, the National Kidney Registry prioritizes you to receive a living donor kidney from their registry. For additional information and the most up-to-date information, you can visit donorshield.com/kidney or scan the QR code that you see here. Outcome data for living donors and recipients. Outcome data for both national and center specific outcomes is available for your review through the scientific registry of transplant recipients or srtt.org. There are no national or centers specific outcomes for living donors calculated by the SRTR. We encourage you to review the data so you can be aware of the national results as well as Penn's recipient outcomes. Our team is available to you to discuss donor and recipient outcomes here at Penn Transplant Institute. Please contact us directly with any questions. The Clyde Barker Transplant House is a guest house for transplant patients and caregivers who reside at least 25 miles from the hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. Our patients often utilize a transplant house for outpatient appointments or even after discharge from the hospital. The Clyde Barker transplant house offers many amenities that you see listed here. The cost of staying at the transplant house is deeply discounted. Please call the number you see here for reservation or additional information. Our team is available to you 24 hours a day, 7 days per week, and 365 days per year. Our team includes a surgeon, physician, transplant nurse coordinator, and advanced practice providers. We receive organ offers, recover donor organs, perform the transplant surgeries, and address urgent clinical needs for all of our patients. You will be notified within 7 to 10 business days if there is a change in our ability to provide this coverage. In the event of a local or regional emergency that impacts our ability to provide transplant care, we will use available resources to notify you and identify a local or regional center to help transfer your care. There are multiple regulatory bodies involved in kidney donation and transplantation. The United Network for Organ Sharing or UNOS is the federal agency that oversees organ donation and transplant. UNOS keeps the national patient waiting list for organ transplants. If you have a question or would like to file a grievance, you should contact Penn Transplant Institute Administration or UNOS directly. The scientific registry of transplant recipients or SRTR publishes public national and trans transplant center recipient outcome data. Data is used to compare transplant center outcomes. Lastly, we have the center for Medicare services or CMS. Penn transplant institute has met all requirements by CMS. We will notify you if our CMS or Medicare status changes in the future. If you have any further questions about these regulatory requirements, please contact your transplant coordinator. This concludes our education session today. On behalf of the living donor team, we thank you for your time and attention.