- There are approximately 28,000 new primary brain cancers in the United States every year. The majority are very aggressive. - People go from highly functional to being altered. That's part of the tragedy of brain tumors. - I've been a neurosurgeon for over 30 years and through the work that I've seen here at Penn, it's the first time I've actually gotten some hope about making a big difference in malignant brain tumors. - What's unique about the Penn Brain Tumor Center is emphasis on innovation, there's not an acceptance of reality as it is. The intention is to do it better. - When we discuss a patient, we talk about the best standard option, and then the best experimental option. The real cutting edge breakthroughs are going to be coming through immunotherapy which is engineering patients' T-cells to be able to attack tumor cells. That's where we're a world leader which really puts us in a position where we can treat people at Penn with a different therapy than anyone in the region. - We have all modalities of treatment for our patients. We have the standard linear accelerators, we have the proton beam therapy. - Weight craniotomies, brain mapping. - We have cyber knife treatment for specific types of tumors. We have the Gamma Knife which focuses very high doses of radiation at very small volumes. - And we have TumorGlow®, developed at Penn by Sunil Singhal and John Lee. - Okay go ahead, laser on. - We use tumor dies to label tumors so that injection of those dies and using special microscopes and cameras enables us to see the tumor much more precisely. - Okay that looks a lot better. - The Penn Brain Tumor Center brings together a number of experts. Oncologists, neurosurgeons, radiation oncologists, neuro pathologists, nurse navigators, all in order to work collaboratively in the care of patients. This is such an important time to be in this space. - This is the real inflection point for our ability to make an impact. - We really are not only offering hope, but extending survivorship. - Getting to a cure is gonna be difficult, no two ways around it. However, in the 32 years I've been a neurosurgeon, this is the first time I've thought, yes we can actually beat brain cancer.