Have you thought about how your genes affect the way you respond to medications?  Welcome to Pharmacogenomics. This type of test can give your doctor valuable information that could help them choose the best medications for you based on your genes.  But before we begin, what are genes and how can they change how medicines work?  A gene is a section of DNA that directs the body's function.  There are many different variants or versions of a gene.  These variations can determine whether you have blue eyes or green eyes, dark hair or lighter hair, and many other characteristics. Different variables can also determine the speed at which your body processes certain medications. This can affect your likelihood of experiencing side effects and can also determine whether certain medications work better for you compared to other people.  Keep in mind that pharmacogenomic testing is a new technology.  We don't know how genes affect each medication.  The test only recognizes the most common gene variants.  So if you have a rare variant, the test may not be able to recognize it.  Ultimately, many things can change how your body responds to different medications, such as age, other health conditions, your diet and exercise level, and other medications you may be taking.  Your genetics are like a piece of a puzzle that we use to form a clearer picture and better understand which medications might work best for you.  Are you interested in taking the exam?  It's easy. You can call the medical genetics department at Pen Medicine or you can ask your doctor for a referral.  You will then be contacted by a pharmacist trained in pharmacogenomic testing to schedule the test time.  The pharmacist will ask you about your goals for pharmacogenomic testing, the medications you are taking, and will review any medications you have taken that did not work well for you, and of course will answer any questions you may have.  We will mail an exam pack to your home with a cheek swab and a prepaid return envelope .  In approximately 4 weeks you will have a telemedicine appointment with our pharmacist and pharmacogenomics doctor. They will review your results and how they affect your medications. You will also receive a report of the results, which you can save and send to any doctor you wish.  And that's all. Pharmacogenomic tests can help you and your doctor make decisions about medications that may improve your health.  Talk to your doctor or call the medical genetics department at Pen Medicine today .  M.