Ever wonder how your genes affect how you respond to medicines? Welcome to pharmarmaccogenomics. This testing can provide your doctor with valuable knowledge that can help them choose the best medicines for you based on your genes. But first, what are genes and how can they change how medicines work? A gene is a section of DNA that tells your body how to work. There are many different variants or versions of a gene. These versions can decide if you have blue eyes or green eyes, dark hair or light hair, among many other traits. Different gene versions can also decide how quickly or slowly your body breaks down medicines. This can affect your chances of having side effects or change if the medicine works better for you compared to other people. Keep in mind that pharmaccogenomic testing is new. We don't know how genes affect every medicine. The test only looks for the most common gene versions. So if you have a rare version, the test may not be able to find it. And last but not least, many things can change how you respond to medicine such as age, other health conditions, your diet and activity level, and other medicines you are taking. Your genetics are one piece of the puzzle which we can use as part of the bigger picture to understand what medicines will work best for you. Interested in getting tested? It's easy. You can either call the Penn Medicine Medical Genetics Department or get a referral from your doctor. Then one of our pharmaccogenomics trained pharmacists will contact you to schedule a screening call. The pharmacist will ask about your goals for pharmaccogenomic testing, update your list of current medicines, and go over any medicine you've taken in the past that did not work well for you. And of course, you'll be free to ask any questions, too. A test kit will then be mailed to your home with a cheek swab and a prepaid return envelope. In about 4 weeks, you'll have a tellaalth appointment with our pharmaccogenomics pharmacist and physician. They'll go over your test results and how they affect your medicines. You'll also get a summary report to keep and send to any doctor you'd like. And that's it. Pharmaccogenomic testing can help you and your doctors make decisions about the medicines you take to improve your health. Talk to your doctor or call the Penn Medicine Medical Genetics Department today.