Phil Damiani: I had...as a child, I remember my mother saying that I had a heart murmur. I, growing up, I didn't know what that meant. I had no idea what a heart murmur was, but it didn't stop me from playing high school sports and being active. I think I'm doing pretty good for 64. I keep very active. I'm involved in an awful lot of things. I was playing tennis, and I noticed I was getting a little short of breath more so than I thought, and I went in and we did some tests, and that's when my cardiologist took a look and they determined that I had the aortic stenosis condition. My cardiologist is in the same building as my primary care physician and I've been with my primary care Penn physician for over 30 years. I come in, I park. It's fantastic. It's five minutes from my house. The convenience of having my Penn cardiologist in Media allowed me to really discuss what was happening and then to be able to make the next steps which was going downtown to Penn. The stenosis was at the point where it could present problems. A very good friend of mine who is a medical examiner told me that many times they find this on autopsies, and I was very fortunate that the people who were working with me at Penn decided that there was no time to be lost and we really should address this and replace the valve. I felt like I was in tremendous hands. The surgery went very well, and the recovery was excellent. In the first week, it was amazing how much better I felt day-to-day. That was what was kind of remarkable to me. And so the combination, I think, of being able to take advantage of resources in Media and also Penn resources in the city worked out very well. When I met my surgeon, I asked him one question. It was, "How long will it be 'til I'm playing tennis again?" And he said three months. In three months, I was on a tennis court hitting some tennis balls. The guys I've been playing tennis with for over 30 years, are our crew. We kid each other; we razz each other. We'll play competitive tennis; we'll play cutthroat tennis, but when we're done, we're kidding, we're relaxing, we're enjoying ourselves. I felt very good about Penn Medicine, and they were on the cutting edge. They're not ranked number one for nothing. I think it's really important to not to settle for something that's second best or something that is mediocre. I think I'd be selling myself short or anyone would if you didn't try to get the best care, and that's the reason that I wanted to work with Penn. It's your life. It's your health, and you owe it to yourself. You owe it to your family and the people you work with to try to get the best healthcare you can, and Penn's it. As long as I'm taking care of my health and doing what I need to do, I've got them there to take care of me long term. I know my life is worth Penn Medicine. Isn't yours?