My name is Rachel Marco, and I am a Team 3 Clinical 3 physical therapist. One of the best things that I love about being a Penn employee is specifically the relationships that we develop with our patients. And it's our job to make them feel at home in their home. And that's, honestly, the best part of this job every day. As a physical therapist, I can address functional performance and solve problems for patients in their natural environment: their home. - How are you? - How are you doing? - Alright.  Excellent. - I'm happy to see you. - Happy to see you too. And on a day to day basis, that's not an easy task. - Let me get your vitals first, snd then we'll go into measuring your knee. How are you feeling? Penn Medicine has some of the most innovative healthcare services that can be provided anywhere. And our services that we give, the collaborative approach that we are giving, between PT, OT, speech, our nurses are treated as key and crucial parts of the interdisciplinary team. And I have always felt that support from day one. - So you see how you're leaning? - Yeah, but I'm gonna lean just to get this up. - Then we'll do one more set of 10 and then we'll see. I do feel rewarded every day with each person that I see, and how I can help them achieve their goals. Some of our patients face the most extensive physical, economic, social, and environmental barriers that are really impacting their health. We really try to chip away at those barriers so that we can improve their health and their quality of life. As a physical therapist, I'm especially involved in everything from function, and taking their medications, working on their ambulation, providing wound care, on their nutrition, on their health management. There's nothing we don't see or do for the patients. Penn Medicine gives me all the tools that I need to continue to grow, especially professionally. We have ongoing programs for education and development, including professional teams of frontline clinicians that focus on best practice of care. We also have access to the greatest therapists, nurses, and physicians with advanced certifications and nationally recognized expertise, and you just can't find that anywhere else. We also have clinical advancement programs.  That has allowed me to be promoted to a Clinical Level 3 physical therapist. I'm now looked at as a clinical leader on my team that aids as a resource to our therapists and nurses for advice on triaging patient issues. I love being a Penn employee because my expectation is to always be the best, and I'm always kept on my toes and challenged to be the best, and to give my patients the best, so that, at the end of the day, even on those hard days, I can go home and be very fulfilled in what I just did for the day.