We're really excited as we approach opening day. The transformation of this building has been just incredibly exciting and fun to watch. I never could have imagined what it would be like to translate a vision on paper to a 3D living breathing hospital. I think with any design, we've always heard the term form follows function, but here it's more than just about function. It's actually about innovating. It's about creating. So they brought in front line staff. They brought on clinicians. They brought in anyone and everyone who's in the building and talked to them about if you could, what would it look like? Involving our caregivers allowed us to be able to identify and to eliminate the problems that we already know of, and we can do that right out of the gate. Our opinions and our thoughts and our questions and our ideas were heard. You are able to sit in meetings and with the architects and collaborate. We've all worked together as a team with all the ambassadors from the different departments. Having clinical input into these spaces really makes these spaces more functional. It's pretty exciting being a part of the conversation and helping in my department to make my location better. It's rewarding. It literally is a top of the line Premiere facility, and I'm excited that I had some help in planning that. I'm most excited for the lab space here, it's top of the line cutting edge. We're going to have a transplant focused floor with the transplant focused ICU right next to it. ORs are going to be just a few floors down. I'm actually most excited that we finally can see the outside and we can see the sunlight, which for MRI is very unusual. When I started the pharmacies were always in the basement, but like the views from this building are beautiful. It just makes you happier. Every room has massive windows, beautiful views. You really can't be upset with what you're seeing from any of the 504 beds here. We've been preparing for this transition for the last six years. We're working pretty much around the clock to take on this huge task of orienting, training, equipping, getting people comfortable in their space so they're ready to provide patient care on the first day. There's going to be a lot of moving parts and we're going to be bringing a lot of patients over to the new pavilion, and we feel confident that we're going to be able to make the transition and keep everyone safe as we do so. We want to make sure as soon as we open up that we're able to give the standard of care without any hiccups. I think we just want to look forward to that first day, see the success, enjoy the beautiful space, but never forget the thousands of people that have been involved in making this happen.