Welcome to Penn Radiation Oncology. If you're watching this video, chances are you're going to be getting radiation treatment for your prostate. The first step for treatment is known as a CT simulation. During the simulation, 3D images will be taken of the area that will be radiated. These images will be used for the radiation oncologist to design the best and most accurate treatment plan for you. To ensure the accuracy of the simulation, we'll ask three things of you. An empty rectum and bowels, a full bladder, and little to no gas. Your bladder, rectum, and bowels are very close to your prostate, and the position of these organs can shift as your bladder and rectum and bowels fill and empty throughout the day. Having an empty rectum and a full bladder at simulation helps to improve the accuracy of your daily radiation treatments. So, let's talk about the importance of your bowel prep first. Having an adequate bowel prep is so important at your simulation since it gives us the baseline of your anatomy that will then be used to develop your radiation treatment plan. Before your simulation, your radiation oncologist will also determine if you'll need an endal balloon. This device is used for both your CT simulation and daily treatments. This will be placed rectally by the radiation therapists. Now, this bowel prep is only for your CT simulation visit. You do not need to do this for daily treatments. 2 days before your CT simulation visit, eat your regular meals and drink 6 to 8 cups of fluids throughout the day. The day before the simulation, you can have a light breakfast, but starting at 12:00 noon, stop eating solid food and take two Dulkax bicodal 5 mgram tablets. You can only have clear liquids from 12:00 noon until after the simulation is over. It's very important to stay hydrated. 6 to 8 cups of fluids daily are recommended. At 400 p.m., take another two Dulkax bicodal 5 mg tablets. Between 5 and 6 p.m., mix two capfuls of Murilax powder in 16 ounces of liquid. Then drink the solution. Now for the day of the simulation. Continue to drink clear liquids and please take your prescribed medications. Now let's talk briefly about your bladder for both the simulation and everyday treatments. We know it might cause a little anxiety, but we need your bladder to be comfortably full for the CT simulation setup day and each treatment. Your bladder sits right above your prostate. When your bladder fills up with urine, it moves in such a way that less of it is in the area of the radiation field, which helps to protect the bladder from receiving unnecessary radiation. When you arrive on the day of your simulation, a member of your care team will instruct you on how much water to drink. Do not go to the bathroom to empty your bladder after drinking this water. Try to drink six to eight glasses of liquids throughout the day to help promote bladder filling for your daily radiation treatments. In addition, if possible, try to have a soft, formed bowel movement before each daily radiation treatment. Some suggestions for helping with this include drinking the 6 to8 cups of liquids previously mentioned, as well as eating a diet with adequate fiber and regular exercise. And that's it. It's important to understand that everything that we ask you to do and everything done in the treatment room are so that the radiation treatment is delivered in the safest manner and you have the best potential outcome. Remember, we're always available for any questions you might have. You can always reach out to your team through the My Pen Medicine portal or talk to a member of your care team when you come in for your appointments. Thank you for choosing Penn Radiation Oncology.