I was diagnosed in uh May of 2011 with prostate cancer and I was uh shattered by that diagnosis and I um uh called up a friend actually an acquaintance of mine who was a cyclist who had a radical prostasectomy removal of the prostate and uh the big question on my mind was how long were you off your bike and he told me two years now. Uh I couldn't imagine being off my bike for two years. It's such a part of the fabric of who I am and and what I like to do and part of our family life. So I came over to Penn Medicine for my consultation with Dr. Curel and Deville initially and he explained the process to me, the treatment process and he also explained that they would verify that I was indeed a good candidate for the therapy. Uh I had already made up my mind that this was what I wanted to do, but the doctors wanted to be sure that uh the treatment could be effective and work would work for me. So uh the next step uh after that was to get it scheduled and uh do some prep. I didn't quite know what to expect when I got into the treatment room, but uh it's almost uh a non-event. Uh most of it is in the preparation, getting the gown on and waiting around. Uh the treatment it takes like one minute or so. uh to get the proton beam, which is completely painless. You don't feel a thing. Uh in my case, the first time through uh I was waiting for the beam. Waiting for the beam and they came in and said, "We're done." And I said, "Okay." Um I didn't feel anything. And I said, "Good. Yeah, that's you're not supposed to." I was able to work throughout the process. I not only rode my bike to and from the uh treatment center, but um they have uh Wi-Fi and so you can stay on the grid during your treatment, which I did. I managed to not uh lose really any time at work. Uh it was just the coming together of many professionals and uh friends uh that I got to know uh here in Philadelphia to make it comfortable and and to make it a a very u uh easy experience for me. And uh I've continued a very active lifestyle uh post treatment, including uh fundraising rides. I recently rode uh with the pin medicine team for the Livestrong Philly Challenge to raise money for Livstrong's cancer survivorship programs. So, it's been a very memorable process for me. I can't say enough about the overall experience for me.