[♪♪♪] Joel: I have a longstanding interest in psoriasis, really since medical school, a bit over 20 years now I've been studying this disease. And I got interested for several reasons. One was it's a very common condition that affects about 8 million people in the country, over 120 million people worldwide. I felt that most of our patients who have skin diseases were poorly understood by their physicians and over time I came to really admire people who suffer with, you know, chronic, incurable skin diseases, that placed a lot of burden on them. - So, in the last 5 to 10 years, we've had major breakthroughs in understanding complicated skin disorders including psoriasis. - We have subspecialists who are leading national experts in every subdivision of disease category. So, we have top psoriasis clinicians and psoriasis researchers. - It was really poorly understood when I was getting involved and interested in studying the disease. It was only at the beginning of understanding that the immune system probably played a role in why people have psoriasis in their skin. And what my research showed about a decade ago was that when people have more severe psoriasis, the type of psoriasis that requires pills or injectable medications or photo therapy to manage, they tend to have higher rates of cardiovascular disease, and that higher rate seems to be related as psoriasis, not necessarily other risk factors like smoking or being overweight, for example. We do two types of research. One is trying to understand that, you know, how doctors educate patients in a real-world setting, our ability to make sure people get the standard age-appropriate medical care because it may be better treating known risk factors for heart problems, for example. And then the second part of the work is understanding what we use for our various treatments. Are we lowering the risk for cardiovascular disease? Are we treating not just psoriasis of the skin, but are we actually lowering inflammation throughout the body in a way that would lower their risk of say, having a heart attack or a stroke. No place could be better qualified to meet the missions of research, patient care and education than being in the setting of a great university like the University of Pennsylvania.