(bright music) - [Shawn] I was comfortable being a big guy. I had a network around it, like it was my identity. But I couldn't keep playing Russian Roulette with my health. My family's genes were comin' for me, and I knew that it was time that I had to do something to get ahead of that, or they were gonna get me. - So by the book, I am his dietician, and off the book, I am his support, his friend, you know? All of those things. - Cheerleader. - Definitely cheerleader. - Yes, so that has grown from us meeting initially and kind of making these plans to embark on a weight loss journey to leading all the way up to surgery, and then, afterwards, the little milestones, the little stumbling blocks, so everything that's gotten him to where he is today. - This whole process has been about my health. It's not about looking better, it's not about any of that. So in order to mark a year of being a healthier person, why not go after something that is challenging and something that you a year ago could've never imagined doing? So I'm getting ready for surgery about this time last year, and I don't know if I was just walking by here, or I mean, you can see it so clearly from the street. And I was just like, you know what, that's something I would never ever do. I think that was part of the reason why I wanted to do this because this was something that a 160 plus pounds ago, I couldn't have done. (bright music) - We do have to put you in a harness. So a few features of a harness right here. So before we get on the wall, I just wanna do a little bit of instruction. - [Shawn] I've been blessed with the support group I've had and the people that have been there for me that this has been overwhelmingly positive and a true blessing in my life. - A thing we're gonna focus on is your body movement and your center of balance. - This is absolutely a prime example of someone who has used the program and used surgery to achieve a goal that is totally unrelated to weight, to a number on the scale, to a number in a chart. So this is an amazing example of what we talk about with patients every day. (bell rings) (crowd cheers) - When I started the climb, it was just, it was me versus the wall. That's what I would focus on, where is the next hand movement, where is the next this? In a way, I'm competing with my old self. I'm competing with the bigger version of myself, and I am so winning (laughs). (crowd applauds) - We were just talking about what's next, what's for next year's annual celebration? - Apparently, this is gonna be an annual thing now. - It's gonna be an annual thing. - See the things I get myself into (laughs)? It's a journey, and it doesn't end. So gotta just get in there and take the joys and the accomplishments and the winning and the celebrations when you can. (bright music)