- When you are diagnosed with a cancer or you've been through a cancer, providers or friends may say, "Well you should just be thankful "that you made it through this." And, I disagree with that. I think that you should only be happy when you feel that you've gone far enough to be the best version of yourself. Penn Medicine ENT is not only going to deal with your cancer, but we're going to deal with the consequences of dealing with the cancer. - So I think we're going to have to come pretty close to the midline on the top of the cranium. - Head and neck cancer can arise in the tongue, jawbone, on the skin of the head and neck. So very visible areas that anyone can see when you're out in the street. I think it's very important being able to repair and reconstruct defects that might occur when people are treated for cancer. - We think about reconstruction as restoration of the quality of life. We want patients to be able to walk around in public and feel like they're normal. What makes Penn stand out more than other centers is that we have six of us that actually do reconstruction. - Both within the department, but even outside the department, this multidisciplinary team that we have includes oncologists and radiation doctors and pathologists. It's just a very deep team. - I like the fact that our mid-segment is three centimeters, it's not a small segment. - We're always pushing the boundries, thinking about problems in a more challenging way, thinking about minimal access incisions. - What we have at our disposal is truly cutting edge. We're using growth factors to help us regenerate tissues. We're using biological substitutes that are much more robust than the person's own tissues. We're incorporating technology where we're able to 3D print and we're able to simulate someone's surgery before they even have it, which is extremely, extremely exciting. - We don't feel like we've accomplished anything just by taking out a cancer and doing an average reconstruction. That, to us, is not a job well done. A job well done is when no one realizes they've actually had major head and neck cancer surgery. - In medicine you get a lot of rewards and a lot of satisfaction. Sometimes it's seeing how the surgery turned out and how the incision heals and how the reconstruction looks and how the cancer is cured. But I have to tell ya, I think the best part is seeing people return to their norm. (upbeat music)