(soft, hopeful music) - I went for my regular mammogram, and when I went to get this particular mammogram, the doctor realized that there were cells that were clustering. So, I went to get the biopsy. I just thought it was a matter of protocol. I said, so I'll just get this done, and then, I'll be fine, afterward. After about 48 hours, that's when I received my diagnosis. And of course, it throws you for a loop because the first thing you automatically say is, "I'm gonna die." That's the first thing that runs through your mind. I didn't even hear any of the good things that he said. He told me that I had a diagnosis, but that's not what I heard. And so, my sister-in-law is a nurse at Penn, and she had actually made appointments for me to see Dr. Wu and Dr. Tchou, which I now call my Asian dream team. (laughs) And that's where that journey began. I met Dr. Tchou, and she's like a warm glass of milk right before bed. She puts you to ease immediately. So, what she did, and she had a fellow at the time. What they did was they gave me all of my options. The thing about it was I didn't know that I had so many choices. I was empowered. Once I decided which surgery I wanted to do, then I was no longer worried about anything, because I knew that I was going to be all right, after that point. So then, I was able to share with my family and my friends what was going on, what I was going to do, and how I was gonna get through it. Dr. Wu is like a shot of tequila. (laughs) She's smart. She's meticulous. She was confident. And I liked that about her. It was a good balance between Dr. Wu and Dr. Tchou, and it's sort of like when you get married to someone, you don't marry someone who's just like you, 'cause they drive you crazy. So, Dr. Tchou calmed me, and Dr. Wu prepared me. I was in excellent hands. (light piano music) I couldn't imagine having the double mastectomy, and the reconstruction with any other hospital, or with any other doctors. Because I was more than a patient. They made me feel like family. And when someone is family, you take care of them. And you love them. And you always are there to support them. And I felt supported by the doctors, and the nurses, and the technicians, and the therapists. Everyone. There's not one. And it goes even down to the valets. Everyone took care of me. This experience has changed me into a person who appreciates life. It helps me appreciate the little things that shape you into the person that you will eventually become.