At the beginning of the pandemic, we didn't know what we didn't know yet. We really were fighting an invisible enemy. It was just sort of surreal. It was like watching a movie. It came like out of a whirlwind so nobody knew what to do. All of a sudden, you're wearing a mask, you're wearing goggles, you're wearing gowns. You could see the stress on people's faces. The fear that goes along with that, it was just, you know, almost overwhelming at times. We didn't even know if all of us were going to be alive in the next two, three months to come. So it was extremely, it was extremely scary. There was one protocol one day, two days later, it could change to another protocol. We would start the day with a process and there was an adjustment to that process 2 hours later. I couldn't even print it quick enough and get it to the desks. The world was looking at healthcare providers for leadership. We saw reports of what was happening in New York and we said, okay, it's not if it comes here, it's when. And we need to be ready. Volunteers just came out of the woodwork. Normal eight-hour workdays became 12, 16-hour days because nobody wanted to walk away. Nobody said, “This isn't what I signed up for.” It didn't matter what department you were from. Folks pulled many late nights, a lot of overtime, did about 300 COVID tests daily. I don't think I heard anybody say, “that's not my job.” This is our job. So no matter what, we have to get the job done. I've been here 30 years. I've never seen the team come together more. Everyone in the world called your healthcare heroes. I knew that before, I knew it during the pandemic, and I'll always know it going forward. That's the nature of a hero, is somebody who steps up and does something remarkable when the moment calls for it. Penn Medicine is more than just a business. It's a family. We’re a family and families stick together. It's really about the people. The people are the organization. I have never been so proud to work at Penn Medicine and to work alongside all of them because they've shown me what good is. I was so proud of what everybody did without complaining, without second-guessing what we had to do. I'm just so proud to be a nurse. For me personally, I would not be here today had it not been for the people at Penn Medicine. My husband had me transferred to Penn, and that decision literally saved my life because of the people that work there. I unfortunately had a brother who died in our ICU of COVID, and I got to watch how my team and the whole ICU cared for him beautifully and allowed him a dignified death. And I'm so proud to be part of that team. I had the experience of having two family members here at Penn Medicine at the same time in the intensive care unit. And the work that our staff did was incredible. They were innovative. They were creative. They've helped us learn new ways of delivering care. We know that COVID will continue to challenge us. This virus isn't done with us. There are variants that are still out there, but all that we've learned in the pandemic can be brought to bear in the care that we deliver in the future, not just for COVID patients, but for all the patients that we care for. Going through all that, it really taught me that you need to be compassionate. You need to be able to be there for one another. Without the support of my wife, I couldn’t do half the things I do here. Without the support of my team, I couldn’t do half the things that I do at home. It made me think of the inner person within me, my inner strength. I didn't know I had that in me, that desire to conquer something. I have learned that I am way more adaptable than I ever thought that I could be. I've learned to be more patient with people. It also gave me a better appreciation for the communities that I'm going to. I think a lot of us just really learned to be considerate of our fellow man, and I think that was an important thing. [Cheers] We’ll miss you! One, two, three. Yay! Yes! I hope there's not another pandemic for 100 Years. Let's not do it again soon. It's been a long three years. It's been three years and one month that we've been wearing masks and I'm ready to say goodbye to them. I could go for a little less mask. Being able to smile with your whole face, not just with your eyes. I think I'm excellent at smiling with my eyes. I've been practicing that for a couple of years now. I learned I could function on very little sleep, even at my age. I learned I like working from home. All that time at home kept us in business and kept our babies coming. We had enough pizza delivered to the hospital to last us a lifetime. My message to Penn Medicine really is to take great pride in all that you’ve accomplished. We should tell our COVID stories with pride. Be kind to people. Always believe in yourself. We can do anything together. Be as positive as you can be. Don't be afraid to just jump right in and help somebody, because somebody always needs help. Really stay focused on what people need because this is what we're here for, to help people out. Never give up. Always move forward. Never give up. If you fail, stand up and work through it. Keep in mind that working for Penn Medicine is a blessing, and I encourage each and every one of you to continue to stay strong and remember that you live each day with a purpose.