Tomorrow is up to you guys. All right. So, what we trying to instill into you is to make you guys positive about yourselves. And once that positiveness is instilled inside of you, no one can take that away from you. >> Working out in the VA, I noticed that a lot of our clients or patients, they were detached. they were staying in the house, they're staying to themselves. Isolation is definitely um that's the biggest tool to depression. Once you start getting depressed, you start pulling within yourself. So, we decided to come up to the Renegades program where we would take the veterans bowling and we go to the movies, we go to a museum. Today, we're out here at the beautiful San Kofa Garden. Coming out to the garden, that's what it's all about. But a lot of my veterans were they were like well my passion is to mentor. >> So I'm like I used to be a track coach so it was like mentoring. Okay. And now that's become a big part of what we do. As you say hurt people hurt people. The same thing applies to when it comes down to healing. If you have somebody that's healing and they talk to somebody else that's trying to heal, it helps out both causes at the same time. All right, let's go. You ready? >> Our key goals is conflict resolution, career development, and character building. We're going to go over to the garden, and we're going to tab and look at the garden, say, "Look at what are the challenges that the garden has to face." They're going to see you're going to see weeds. They may not have enough water. And they're also going to see that a lot of things have to be tended. We're pretty much in the middle of the city, >> but this is like an oasis in the middle of the city. >> This is where you started. We had a gunshot victim talked to the children and he was paralyzed from the neck down and the way they interacted with him and the way that he lit up just to talk to them. It was beautiful. Everybody has something to say, but they don't have the platform to save it from. Renegades gave me the platform. We go into the schools and we give these young men the tools they need. conflict resolution, how to walk away from trouble, how to make good choices, because a lot of them need chances and opportunities that nobody's guiding them into. And that's what we do. We guide them in the right direction. >> Before we put this into the soil, we're going to uh take a moment and we're going to say something nice to it, okay? Because it came from one space, now it's going somewhere else. >> The Pen Medicine Cares grant allowed this to branch out. It just allows us to do more things that allows a gentleman to look forward to seeing us. And knowing that we don't have a low bar, the bar is high. When you wake up in the morning, have something good to to wake up to is something that's helping me feel better about myself. You know that we're making a difference in these children's lives. It gives me meaning.