- The next set of exercises we're going to do are resistive exercises, and these are going to be done after six weeks. The bands you're going to use come in different colors and they are different levels of resistance, and your therapist will tell you which level or color band to start with. We're going to tie these either onto the doorknob or use some type of Thera-Loop piece that your therapist will instruct you on how to use. So the first exercise I'm going to show you is external rotation. I'm going to have you place your arm at your side. The hand will be near the belly or on the belly, depending upon your belly size. You are then going to step away and take up the slack in the band. So the hand is set as shown and then you're going to step away where you've just taken the slack in the band up. That's where you're going to begin your exercise. So every time you start, you have the same amount of tension. If you don't start that way, one day you may start with the band like that. The next day you're two feet out, it's a very different exercise, much more resistance. So you're going to start where you've just taken up the resistance of the band. Your hand is near the stomach or on the stomach. I'm going to ask Bryson to first pull his shoulder blades together. So pinch them a little bit. He's going to hold his shoulder blades together and then he's going to rotate his hand out to the side to about what I'm going to call on the left arm 11 o'clock. Bring it back in so. Bring it back on out. I'm going to give you that clock reference in a second. So he's bringing it out, he's holding for a second, bring it back in. He's going to take about 2 to 3 seconds to move in and out and bring it back on it. I just want to talk to you about this clock reference. So if you're looking at a clock, there's the 12, there's the 6, and if I were to take that clock and put it underneath the arm, when the arm is straight out in front, you're at the 12 o'clock position. No matter where you move the body, if the arm is straight out in front, that's 12 o'clock. So for the left shoulder, he's going to move from near the stomach out to 11 o'clock; 10 o'clock would be there, 9 o'clock would be there. That would be way too far. So we're going from near stomach out to 11 o'clock. Typically, we're going to start off with 2 sets of 10. You would progress when those 2 sets of 10 create no discomfort while you do them or after you do them. So you do them for a few days, no pain or problem, you go to 3 sets of 10. If you can do those exercises, no pain or problem for a day or two, progress to 3 sets of 15. As always listen to your therapist. If they don't want you to progress, then you would follow their direction and progress at their discretion. To make this able to be seen for the camera, all we did was switch the band anchor, but really what you would be doing is you would have to, if you just did external rotation, you would just turn around, start here and do internal rotation. But we've turned Bryson around here so he's going to use his left arm. He's going to put his left arm in the 11 o'clock position. That's where you'll start. He's then going to step away, take up the tension, and now he's going to set his shoulder blade by pinching it back. He's going to rotate in to near stomach. So it's the exact same arc of motion that he did for but he's starting in the 11 o'clock position and he's moving in to near the stomach. Moving the band or his hand 2 to 3 seconds as he moves, holds for a second, then comes back out. Again, sets and reps will be discussed with your therapist. Typically, we start off with 2 sets of 10, progress to 3 sets of 10 and 3 sets of 15. The next exercise is shoulder extension. So what we're going to do is I'm going to ask Bryson to put his arm out in front. He now is going to step back and take up the tension in the band. All right, so his arm is not fully out in front but about halfway up. He's got tension on the band. He's now going to pull his arm back like he's rowing, taking it to the point where he can. Again, you may have some discomfort with these exercises. Keep it in a relatively pain-free range. So back and forth, moving the arm 2 to 3 seconds. Hold for a second, bring it back. Starting off with 2 sets of 10, progressing to 3 sets of 10, progressing to 3 sets of 15.