- I'm going to take a look in your ears first, just to see what's going on. When patients come to our center, they typically begin by having a diagnostic hearing assessment. - We have a number of different technologies that we can use to get an accurate assessment of the patients hearing. - You do a hearing test and you start putting the pieces of the puzzle together. - Often those patients are also seeing an ear, nose, and throat physician after they have their hearing evaluation, so that the team together can make the appropriate recommendation of what should come next. - If you do have a hearing loss and a hearing impairment, the natural thing to do would be to rehabilitate that, by wearing hearing aids. - [Michele] Hearing aids aren't what your grandmother wore. They're attractive cosmetically because they've been miniaturized. - [Woman] They have just gotten smaller and smaller and the battery life has gotten longer and longer. - We are able to provide access to almost every hearing aid manufacturer that exists, and because we're able to offer all those different choices, I can make the right match. People with the hearing aids that are made today it goes into both ears, their hearing in stereo they can bass boost, they can focus the conversation that's amazing. - What you see in red is your right ear blue is your left ear. Here are your thresholds with the softest level you can hear each of those sounds. - [Michelle] When a person has severely profound hearing loss and they've reached a point where hearing aids are no longer beneficial. We consider them for an implant. - Certainly we do offer hearing aid services and we are very confident in those services that we provide. But the variety of other products and services that are available out there is really what makes people happy to be coming to Penn. - What's really exciting patients with regards to implantables is wireless technology, blue tooth streaming capabilities, smaller, lighter, devices that are less intrusive and make them more comfortable wearing them. - Cochlear implant technology is something that is for an individual who typically has moderate to profound sensory neural hearing lost or inner ear hearing lost. - One of the most satisfying things is putting a cochlear ear implant in a patient who can't hear. - Where do you want to go when we leave? - I want to go some place to eat, what else. - Of course! (laughing) - [Man] That's pretty incredible you can see how that changes their personality. Some patients were very withdrawn before hand and then you see them open up. - The auditory brain stem implant if for a very specific set of patients who really don't have any other options. - They have acoustic neuromas on both sides so they may lose your hearing in both ears because of the tumors. It's actually put by the cochlear nucleus by the hearing pathways in the brain stem and can give them some auditory perception. - [Man] The team here at Penn is the first team in the region to be able to offer this technology. - BAHA basically allows the sound to by-pass the damaged outer or middle ear and stimulate the inner ear which is functioning more normally. Without having to put a traditional hearing aid on the ear. - [Woman] We also offer bone conduction devices. Bone conduction actually sends a vibration from the skull to stimulate the inner ear. In essence by passing the outer or the middle ear where we expect the problem is occurring and stimulating the inner ear directly. (upbeat music) - [Woman] We are able to offer patients everything that is available without holding back. - It's the only sense we can now restore. We can take people who are deaf and make them hear again. - [Woman] Their not going to be frustrated and isolated. We're going to give them a mechanism to help themselves get back to communicating with their family and friends. (music fade)