I was uh 91 when I was diagnosed. Lung cancer was a death sentence. I was concerned about the chemo, losing my hair, and possibly having terrible side effects. >> Cancer is a disease of older people. Statistically 65 to 70% of all people diagnosed with cancer above the age of 65. Only 20 to 25% of this population actually enroll on cancer clinical trials. This is an under reppresented group. We made the case that older adult cancer care was a health equity problem. It's clear that our geriatric patients have a unique set of needs and circumstances and we need to address not only how to treat their cancers but how we can provide them with the support to ensure that they are capable and able to embrace the challenges of physical emotional suffering. My mom called me one morning really upset. She had a CAT scan for abdominal pain and was diagnosed with a pretty serious uh cancer diagnosis. It was clear that from a very early stage the team was really dialed into her condition. Being on the other side of the patient and sort of delivering care, but on the receiving end, this program has really allowed me to be immersed and see its benefits firsthand for our patients and community. One of the foundational principles of this is something called the geriatric assessment is a practical way of assessing all the aspects of a person's life. It really was being able to create a tool that clinicians can use to be able to real time understand the aging population of patients who have cancer. The dashboard, it's 50 different data points for these patients. Is this patient actively admitted in the hospital? Do they have an advanced directive? Have they completed a practical geriatric assessment recently? If you have an appointment today, everything from your appointment today will populate in the report. Although I'm not on the front lines, I'm able to hopefully release the burden on clinicians so that they are able to deliver the best care possible. Everyone's different. Everyone ages differently. Everyone comes from a different background. So what we do is connect them with services that can help. >> And now in response to people's emotional needs or distressers, we are able to partner them with clinical psychologists or licensed clinical social workers. >> My first reaction was u I don't really need this. I I'm handling it okay. And I turned out something that I really enjoyed. I felt very comfortable. I felt it gave me a lot of hope. It's one of the best things that Penn has to offer patients. >> Our team is comprised of experts. We support each other. We encourage each other. We celebrate together. >> We've made such a ripple across Penn that now these programs are expanding across the entire ecosystem. And we are hoping to open these clinics throughout Penn. That way, this is not a Penn Princeton unique program, but one that every patient who's older will have the opportunity to touch at any pen site. >> I didn't think I'd be around. After 2 years, they've taken care of me. I'm still around. Can't ask for more than that. I've been able to go on with my life.