Who is at risk for cancer related lympadeema? Anyone whose system has been damaged can develop this condition. In cancer patients, we see this most often in patients who have undergone lymph node dissections, meaning the removal of one or more lymph nodes or who have had radiation therapy that affects one or more groups of lymph nodes in the body. Patients with many different kinds of cancer can develop lympadeema. These include breast cancer patients, those with melanomas, head and neck cancers, and people with cancers that affect their digestive, reproductive, or urinary systems. My name is Michael Leaven. I was first diagnosed with metastatic melanoma in January 2006. The surgery was in the groin. Uh and that because the lymph nodes were removed, the doctors explained that my leg will not drain as it's supposed to. The location of the damage determines the area at risk for developing lympadeema. Breast cancer patients are at risk for having lympadeema in the arm or chest on the side of their treatment. Melanoma patients can get lympadema in the limbs on the side where their lymph nodes were treated. Head and neck patients develop it in their face or neck. People with abdominal or pelvic lymph node damage develop lower body lympadeema. It is impossible to predict which individuals will have this condition. Some patients who undergo what is known a sentininal lymph node biopsy in which fewer than three nodes are removed may develop lympadeema while others who have had much more extensive surgery or radiation therapy never have a problem. Here are the important points to remember. If you have had cancer treatment that removed or damaged lymph nodes, you are at risk for developing lympadeema. The risk may increase with the number of nodes removed or the damage to the nodes, but it is impossible to predict who will develop lympadeema. Lympidema develops in the areas or limbs drained by the damaged nodes. For more detailed information, visit penmed.org/lympadeema. I hope you have found this video helpful. Remember, if you have any questions about lympadeema and its treatment, talk to your doctor, physical therapist, or nurse. They want to help you.