Science can be engaging. It can be fun. It can be hands-on. It can be about topics I like. Science is really making an impact on people. Road to Research was started as a nonprofit student organization here at the University of Pennsylvania to bridge the gap between clinical lab experience and high school students who are not easily exposed to STEM. This program is so important because it gives students opportunities to access science when they may not have these opportunities in their own schools. >> So what we do is we always grab a cohort of students in the West Philly district and we put them through a curriculum of guided lectures, wet lab, uh PCRs, shells. >> Students are always really curious about what we have planned for that day. They also ask a lot of really good questions about digging deeper about why certain things work the way they do. Students get to do some really cool things. A big one every year is the fetal pig dissection. They get to learn about anatomy. Half of them think it's really cool. It's the best thing they've done and half of them are so grossed out. Overall, a lot of kids say that it's one of their favorite activities. Road to Research has helped me gain not only a foundation in research, but it has also taught me how to research. I've had amazing mentors and developed a lot of friendships that I wouldn't have been able to develop if it weren't for the program. It has also helped me be able to strengthen my applications for when I do apply to veterinary school. All of our teaching assistants are either students of University of Pennsylvania or affiliated with. Sometimes we invite lab managers or PhD students to come down and teach as well. Easily the best part of Road to Research is the end of your symposium. >> We have a poster session for them to present their research and what they've been working on all year. Seeing high school students writing up their own projects, scientific journals, reading through them, and presenting it in front of strangers and faculty, that's a great accomplishment. I was super proud of them. Pen Medicine Cares has supported our program extensively. External funding sources is what allows Road to Research to deviate from the standard science curriculum and focus more on hands-on labs. >> We really get to make science fun. That's the most important part and the best part about this program.