- Infection with hepatitis C is a major public health problem here in the United States and throughout the world. I'm Dr. Vincent Lo Re from Penn Medicine, and I'm an infectious disease physician and researcher focusing on chronic hepatitis C virus infection. Today I'm going to explain who's at risk for hepatitis C, how it affects the body, and what treatments are available for this disease. Hepatitis C is transmitted primarily through exposure to blood or body fluids, as a result; today, 4 million Americans are chronically infected with hepatitis C and another 170 million people are infected worldwide. People who may have an especially increased risk for chronic hepatitis C and who should be screened for infection include those who have used injection or intranasal drugs, received a blood or cloning factor transfusion prior to 1992, have undergone hemodialysis, or are children of hepatitis C infected mothers. In addition, recent data from the CDC indicate that people born between 1945 and 1965 have a much greater risk of contracting hepatitis C, so any baby boomers should be sure to get screened. If left untreated, chronic hepatitis C can lead to cirrhosis, liver cancer, and liver failure. Fortunately, direct acting oral treatments for chronic hepatitis C are now available; these therapies typically require only eight to twelve weeks of once daily pills, have few side effects, and result in greater than 94% chance of curing chronic hepatitis C. Here at Penn Medicine, we have a multi disciplinary team of clinicians, nurses, pharmacists, dieticians, and behavioral counselors; all specializing in hepatitis C and HIV, hepatitis C coinfection. We perform a comprehensive evaluation focusing on hepatitis C and liver health. Our practitioners provide detailed education about all aspects of hepatitis C virus infection; including a proper diet to avoid liver complications. We have a FibroScan imaging machine that noninvasively measures liver scarring; so we can accurately evaluate and treat any liver damage. Our pharmacists will review medications to ensure there are no issues with the treatments we prescribe. We have extensive experience working will all types of insurance to obtain approvals for treatment and we are dedicated to working closely with our patients to cure their chronic hepatitis C infection. If you think you or someone you know is at risk for hepatitis C; or if you're interested in more information about our program, visit our website or call 800-789-PENN. We will connect you to one of our outstanding providers and start you on the road to a cure of your chronic hepatitis C infection.