- Seasonal allergies can be brutal, and these days, there's a lot of misinformation around what causes allergies and how to avoid them. I'm Dr. Jeff Millstein with Penn Medicine, and today, let's find out what's fact and what's fiction when it comes to seasonal allergies. [♪♪♪] Myth 1: You can develop allergies as an adult. This one is a fact. Adults are not immune from developing new allergies or getting them for the first time later in life. Allergies are your body's response to substances that your immune system mistakenly identifies as harmful. As we age, our immune system becomes weaker, which in turn, weakens our hyper-allergenic reactions. Typically, most adults who experience allergies later in life had a previous allergic episode that they may not remember. These can start during early childhood and lay dormant through your teenage years, then, pop back up later in life. So, if you're feeling the sniffles, but assume it couldn't possibly be allergies, think again. Myth 2: Eating local honey helps relieve allergy symptoms. I wish it was true, but unfortunately, this one is fiction. There's been a lot of buzz around this idea because bees collect pollen from local plants and use it to create their honey. And therefore, it could help build up your immunity to those local allergens. Believe it or not, flower pollen is actually one of the least common allergens. What really triggers most peoples' seasonal allergies are pollens from trees, grass, and weeds, which won't be found in your local honey. So, while honey is delicious, your best bet for allergy relief is over-the-counter medication. Myth 3: Using nasal spray frequently can be bad for you. This is a fact and it's a serious one too. Nasal decongestant sprays can work like a charm but they are not meant for long-term treatment of allergy symptoms, and can cause serious harm if not used properly. These sprays contain chemicals that shrink the enlarged blood vessels that are causing your congestion. After more than a few days' use, those blood vessels can become dependent on the drugs, causing you to need to use more and more of it to get the same results. This is called the rebound phenomenon and over time, it can lead to chronic sinusitis and other serious nasal problems. As an alternative, try some other remedies like oral antihistamines or decongestants, and if you do opt for a nasal spray, use nasal corticosteroids rather than decongestants. They're very effective in relieving symptoms and don't carry the same risk. When it comes to seasonal allergies, it's best to be pro-active and keep a consistent treatment plan to manage your symptoms. If you have questions about what's best for you, be sure to consult your primary care provider. To learn more about Penn Primary Care, visit our website. And stay healthy out there.