Welcome everyone to the Penn Primary Care podcast. I'm your host Dr. Kendall Williams. So, I've been looking forward to this podcast for a while and I've been trying to get it on the books and that is to bring my friend and colleague Dr. Andy Kun here in to talk about shoulder pain. Dr. Coun is a shoulder surgeon here at Penn and a very fine one indeed, one I send a lot of my patients to. I was telling him before the podcast or before we started recording that I basically learned the shoulder exam out of textbooks and maybe some videos, maybe some podcasts. So, how I manage shoulder pain is really just something that's been I've had to search out the information for myself and I'm not sure all of it is correct. So, I wanted Andy to come on and be a real life person to sort of talk about shoulder pathology and how to work it up. So, Dr. Kun is an associate professor of orthopedic surgery at Penn. He is the chief of shoulder surgery at the Philadelphia VA. He is also the director of the shoulder study group at Penn, basically the clinical research program in shoulder pain and other pathologies. Andy, thanks for coming. >> You're welcome. It's great to be with you. Thanks for having me. >> Yeah. So, I've been trying to get this set up with Andy for a while. So, Andy, we're just going to jump right into it. And as I said, you know, everything I know about the shoulder as an internist, I've learned from mostly from books. So I'm interested in sort of confirming my knowledge or having it refuted. Well, let me just say we see a lot of shoulder pain in primary care. People come in all the time with shoulder pain and I think we all have a basic understanding, but this is going to be very helpful. So let's just talk about the shoulder itself. Some of the pearls that I learned in reading about the shoulder was it's not much of a joint. It's really just sort of your arm hanging by the side of your body and held together by some criss-crossing muscles with their associated tendons and a little bit of ligamentous structure and most of that pathology comes from that arrangement. It's actually a very complex joint from that perspective. It is it's interesting like you said there's very little bony attachment of the arm to the rest of the body. If you look really the only joint between the upper extremity and the torso is the small AC joint and everything else is muscular. While the humorris articulates with the scapula through the shoulder joint, the glenoumeral joint itself, the arm is held to the body mostly by muscular attachments. you know, 17 different muscles around the scapula, hold the scapula on the back of the chest wall. And then that kind of leads to so many different difficulties and challenges or unique issues with the shoulder where so much of this is really muscular and tendon to some extent rather than a bony or joint problem in many situations. the actual shoulder joint just to talk about that because we won't talk about it too much but we should probably I think of it about a dime or dime or maybe a nickel sized connection that exists there is that about right >> it's a bit larger I mean the actual glenoumeral joint or the ball and socket joint where the upper part of the armbbone hummeral head meets with the scapula is a bit larger than that if you look at you know typical sizes of the hummeral head as we measure those in cross-section you know it ranges somewhere from in the low 40 mm up to 50 mm or so. So 4 to 5 cm across the diameter of the joint there. when it comes to the anatomy and there was a time in my life when I knew the anatomy. I would say that the rotator cuff muscles and we kind of knew those at some point in medical school and I their names and everything else those I generally think as a group I then segregate out the bicipital the biceps muscle which is really part of the shoulder as it inserts into the bicipital groove and then the deltoid itself which it seems doesn't actually have a great deal of pathology associated with it. Right. So the deltoid. Yeah. So how much do we need to know about the individual rotator cuff muscles, the specific muscles? So I think knowing a bit about the rotator cuff is important. Probably knowing the exact names and locations of them is less important, but understanding the general purpose of the rotator cuff is important. The rotator cuff as you mentioned it's four muscle tendon units that essentially surround the glenoumeral joint and provide stability to the joint provide some power to the joint. But really the kind of the unique thing about the rotator cuff is the anterior part and the posterior part balance each other and then overall the rotator cuff works kind of in conjunction but balancing that deltoid as you mentioned. So as the deltoid tries to pull the arm up, the rotator cuff is there to balance it and actually pull the hummeral head down. As the back part of the rotator cuff tries to pull the hummeral head posterly, you have the front part of the rotator cuff trying to pull anterly. And those the balance of the forces is what's really critical. And that also is what we can leverage for treatment. whether it's with common rotator cuff tears, but it's why so often we'll see somebody with a large rotator cuff tear and yet still the ability to elevate their arm. And some will say, well, like how is that possible? With a big tear like that, how can you even function? But as long as those forces are balanced out, you have a balance of the anterior posterior, what we call force couple and the superior inferior force couple, you can actually have pretty reasonable function in the joint. So, we're going to get to examine in a bit, but I think just to kind of think through this as we're just generally introducing the shoulder, you know, if I lift my arm from the side in what we call abduction, right? And the first muscle that takes over is the deltoid, right? To sort of lift it to maybe, I don't know, 45 degrees or something like that. And at that point, this my understanding, the rotator cuff muscles start to take over, do some of the lifting, but also have to pull on the hummeral head so that it comes down as the deltoid is pulling up. Right. >> That's right. The deltoid is really one of the main powerful muscles around the shoulders. Some of the initiation of true abduction really is brought on by the suppinatus and then the deltoid takes over. And what's interesting is when you look at arm movement, if we're looking at getting your hand overhead or arm out in space, it's a combined movement of the glenoumeral joint and the scapular thoracic joint. Generally 2/3 of that movement from the glenoumeral joint and a third of it from the scapular thoracic joint. Kind of rough numbers there, but this is all a combined integrated work of these different articulations and joints. So that in certain situations, and I know we'll talk about this later, but say you have a frozen shoulder where the glenoumeral articulation or joint isn't moving as much, you tend to compensate with the scapula thoracic joint and that can cause pain and other issues in that area. So, it's this kind of unique interplay of the scapula moving on the chest wall and the ball and socket joint moving and combining all the muscular forces around the shoulder to have that happen smoothly and in unison that makes the shoulder work. And I think the other thing to realize is as you mentioned a little bit before you know shoulder joint relatively small but the other thing is the glenoid is very flat. This is a joint that has more mobility than any other joint in the body. And so it really relies on the muscles and the tendons around the joint to stabilize it. And that leads to some unique types of pathology as well. But it really is a unique joint with kind of this small flat socket instead of a deep socket like the hip and then stabilization with all the muscles and tendons around and then couple that with the scapula thoracic joint. It's again really unique complex movement that we don't even think about as we just simply get our hand up in space. >> Yeah, it is remarkable. When I studied it, you know the knee and you learn the knee and you think that's pretty easy. And the shoulder was definitely the most challenging joint for me to understand and I'm still working at it. That's why I have you on the bus. >> Me too. >> So let's just go over the pathologies that are common in this sort of situation. I mean we we're going to let's touch on arthritis itself. So the glenoumeral arthritis where the it similar to the knee and hip it's the cartilage on cartilage that is worn down or becomes inflamed or infected in certain I saw one patient in my career with an infected shoulder joint. That is pathology that we should at least be aware of. It's not that common but and it can lead to shoulder replacements down the line. Right. So >> yes absolutely I think one of the most helpful ways to think about shoulder pathology is really basing it on patient age. Arthritis is not a common diagnosis in our young patients, teenagers, those in their 20s and 30s, but starts to become more common in middle age and then later in life. Instability of the shoulder, a loose shoulder with subluxations or dislocations is much more common in the young patients, the teenagers and those in their 20s and 30s, but becomes less common in older patients. And similarly, the rotator cuff typically isn't the problem in young patients, but becomes more symptomatic in middle age and older age. And so thinking about, all right, I'm here with a 20-year-old patient. The thing that's on the top of my mind is not arthritis and rotator cuff pathology, but more instability and laboral issues than anything else. And then that switches when I'm seeing a patient in their 60s, 70s, 80s. I'm not thinking about laboral pathology or, you know, instability, but more rotator cuff and arthritis. So, let's start there. That's actually a good way to think about it. So, let's talk about the younger person. And I actually didn't think about adding dislocation into this discussion, but it comes up. So, more in my personal life, I've seen two dislocations happen in real time. So, you have anterior dislocations and posterior dislocations. Usually they can be reduced at least anterior can be reduced fairly easily sometimes just on site but what are the repercussions of once you've reduced it put it back in place I know some people are fine but what are some of the problems that you see down the line in somebody that dislocates the shoulder so again that's really age dependent so in the younger patient and especially the younger athlete the biggest risk is the risk of recurrence or recurrent dislocation and the most Common pathology that results from a dislocation is tearing of the labum at the anterior inferior aspect of the glenoid. As the hummeral head comes off the glenoid or the socket to the front that results in a tear of that anterior inferior glenoid called a typically a bank leion. But you can also get stretching of the capsule. You can get impaction of the backside of the hummeral head. All of these things lead to an increased likelihood of recurrent instability or recurrent dislocations. And that is a higher risk in the younger patients. Whereas as we get older, joints are generally a little bit stiffer, that tissue is a little bit tighter. The risk of a recurrent dislocation becomes lower. But interestingly, patients in their 40s, 50s, 60s, if they have a dislocation, then there's a much higher likelihood of a traumatic rotator cuff tear. So that's something we want to be aware of. Whereas in teens and 20s, it's very rare to tear your rotator cuff as a result of a dislocation because that tendon is so elastic and kind of takes absorbs that dislocation. Whereas in older patients, tendons are much more inelastic and so they tear more commonly. So to get back to your question, what do we worry about? Again, it depends on age, but young patients recurrent instability. Older patients, rotator cuff tears as a result of a dislocation. I assume to help avoid a repeat, you're doing physical therapy, strengthening the shoulder muscles and so forth. Right. >> Right. So, if you look at what stabilizes the shoulder joint, you have what we call static stabilizers and dynamic stabilizers. And with therapy, you can strengthen the dynamic stabilizers, which are primarily the rotator cuff tendons. But therapy doesn't affect the static stabilizers. So if you have a dislocation and you tear your labum, which happens the vast majority of the time, therapy isn't going to restore the tension of the capsule or reoppose that labreum to the glenoid. And so there are sometimes that therapy can be helpful. There are other times where therapy isn't going to restore stability. And whether it's due to bone loss or a large enough tear, patients will have recurrent instability despite therapy. >> Can we talk about the labum? It's always been confusing to me, but I think about it as a ligamentous cuff that kind of helps to the joint to actually hold together, I suppose. >> Yeah. The socket is really shallow and so the labreum adds a bit of depth around the periphery of the socket. And so you have the labreum which is completely around the glenoid or the socket and serves as an attachment for the biceps and the capsule. And so it deepens the socket, but it also provides an anchor point for the other static stabilizers of the shoulder. I tell patients often times, I think of it like a gasket that helps not truly seal the ball and socket together, but it helps keep the ball and socket together. And so a tear of that labreum or disruption of the labum certainly can result in a change in instability of the joint. But the other thing to know is because our shoulder moves so well and we have such amazing motion in the ball and socket joint, the labreum sees a whole lot of stress in a different ways over uh course of a lifetime. And so it's very normal to develop degenerative laboral tears with age. And so I think that's one of the other things we think about is a laboral tear in a teenager probably isn't a normal finding or a degenerative finding. But a laboral tear in a 40-year-old that's never had a dislocation or never had an injury can absolutely be a degenerative finding. And so a lot of times we see, especially with MRI reports, you know, where we see degenerative changes in the labum and patients will come in and say, you know, I have a laboral tear. And it's true, you have a degree of a laboral tear, but that doesn't mean it's actually pathologic or the source of pain or the source of a problem. This is why I never order shoulder MRIs because I'll get the results back and it will sound bad to me and then I'll send them to you and you're like, "No, that's nothing. And it's Yeah. >> Yeah. No, it's very true. I mean, there's just there's a lot of degeneration in the shoulder over time, similar to a spine. You know, you see a lot of these changes which certainly can be the source of pain, but they aren't always the source of a problem. So, let's talk about the rotator cuff muscles and tendons, associated tendons. And of course, we'll get to exam in a bit, but as you raise your shoulder, that I think you said the supinetus, it initiates it, the deltoid takes over. And it's really not until you've raised your arm a bit off your body to where the rotator cuff muscles start to take over. And that's one of the ways, by the way, on exam I always tell if it's a rotator cuff issue or one of the things I think about is at what point do you start to have pain or discomfort and when you're in that arc of abduction off of your body and up into the air? >> Sure. Rotator cuff symptoms can vary substantially and some of that depends on the size or location of a tear. And I think one of the challenging things with the shoulder and some other joints, but especially the shoulder, is pain doesn't necessarily correlate with the location of the pathology. Meaning, you can have pain in the front of the shoulder that's coming from an issue on the back of your shoulder or vice versa. And it's real common to have lateral upper arm pain with most type of shoulder pathologies, especially rotator cuff pathology. So, it's not uncommon for a patient to say, you know, it's really my upper arm that hurts. when in reality it's an issue at the shoulder joint and the rotator cuff itself. >> So let's talk about the exam and are there aspects of history that really help you narrow it down immediately to the joint, the labum, the rotator cuff or some other related pathology. Yes, I mean history is definitely very important and if you listen to the patient, they'll often times tell you exactly what's going on without even examining their shoulder based on how the symptoms came about, where the pain is, when it hurts. And I think one of the key things is not necessarily the history, but going back to just patient age, right? So that already starts to frame what you're thinking in the middle-aged patient, especially female patients. Frozen shoulder is very common and so frozen shoulder can present many different ways but often times there is a prodal period of slow onset insidious pain without an injury and then all of a sudden it changes quickly and there's an increase in pain and at the same time a decrease in motion and often times the pain is so bad patients don't really notice the lack of motion they just notice the change in pain. Rotator cuff pathology can present many different ways. Arthritis can present many different ways. But oftentimes in later phases of frozen shoulder or arthritis, patients will talk about their loss of motion or limited motion. With rotator cuff can be pain, it can also be the sensation of weakness. So yes, you can get at the diagnosis from the history, but I think probably the most important thing is really the age. I want to talk about frozen shoulder and adhesive cap or adhesive capsulitis as it's known. It's kind of a funny entity, isn't it? Right. So, I had understood, this is how I thought about it growing up and learning about this, that somebody injures their shoulder, they don't use it very much as a result of not using it very much because the shoulder, if you don't move it, it becomes kind of stiff and you end up with a frozen shoulder. That's what I thought it was. And then subsequently I learned that it's actually not really that at all. I mean that could be part of it, but people could just all of a sudden get this almost fibrous process that happens in their shoulder for unclear reasons out of the blue. >> Absolutely. And there really are, you know, we use the term frozen shoulder and adhesive capsulitis interchangeably. And yet they're not truly interchangeable. So frozen shoulder is really exactly what you're talking about. the lack of active and passive movement in the shoulder joint and that can come about because of pain or disuse. You can have postsurgical frozen shoulder. You can have a frozen shoulder technically because of arthritis or a rotator cuff tear. But adhesive capsulitis is really and those other things are secondary causes of frozen shoulder. When we talk about a true primary cause of frozen shoulder, typically the idiopathic adhesive capsulitis and that is what you're talking about that inflammation eventually fibrosis of the joint capsule that results in tightening of the capsule and lack of motion. And that is more common again in middle-aged people, especially women between the age of 40 and 60. There is certainly an association with folks who have either a personal history or family history of diabetes or hypothyroidism and probably some underlying link that we don't truly understand with autoimmune type processes. And so we certainly see kind of familial groupings of frozen shoulder but very common in the young diabetic or young patient with a thyroid abnormality. >> Yeah, it's really interesting because I had never thought of it as almost an autoimmune syndrome. It really is and we see patients with inflammatory bowel disease and other conditions where again we don't understand the link but it just it's more common with some either diagnosed or undiagnosed autoimmune type process. >> And so it's involving the joint capsule not so much the rotator cuff muscles. It's around the >> it's the capsule. So it's deep to the rotator cuff. So if you look at the shoulder anatomy, you've got the actual ball and socket joint and the articular surfaces and then surrounding that you have the capsule and then around the capsule you have the rotator cuff. And so in patients with adhesive capsulitis, their rotator cuff is fine. Typically the muscles around the shoulder are fine. The joint surfaces are typically fine, but it's the capsule itself that becomes very thickened. There different phases of a frozen shoulder. And the first phase is where it's an inflammatory phase and that's when it's very painful. The capsule is thickening. You notice pain and starting like range of motion is starting to decrease. And then you get into the second phase which is more of a static phase where it's not as inflamed but the capsule is still very thickened. And then in the final phase, the thawing phase, there isn't inflammation. The capsule is starting to thin out. you're getting back to normal type tissue and you're starting to see drastic improvements in range of motion and there's not the typical pain associated with it. So there's this progress but it can be a very long process but it all is based on the capsule of the joint >> and most people do improve and get better. >> Absolutely. It is one of the things that's most helpful for patients is to understand how long it can take to get better. Typically tell patients it's not uncommon for this to take 12 to 15 months to fully get better. But it's not 12 to 15 months of the excruciating unrelenting pain that they notice in the beginning. You move out of that first inflammatory phase and then while you don't have full motion in your shoulder, it's much more tolerable and you're working through exercises to stretch. But most people get better. Most people don't need surgery. >> That's a really funky thing. >> It is. And it's really frustrating for patients that don't have a significant injury. Nothing happens. They wake up one morning, their shoulder's a little sore, and then shortly thereafter, they can't move it, and it is a miserable, miserable condition for a period of time. While we're staying in the joint area, I want to hover on the joint capsule itself. And you had mentioned that later in life, people can develop osteoarthritis of that joint. My father-in-law is a painter, owns a painting company out in San Francisco, and he painted for a living, and so did a painted a lot. And it's usually that kind of person who uses their shoulder a lot in awkward movements who develops osteoarthritis of the shoulder. But also you can get destruction of the shoulder joint from RA and some other autoimmune syndromes. Right. >> Absolutely. While there is some association between osteoarthritis and activity level, there are certainly people who aren't like your father-in-law that pain or do a whole lot and aren't former athletes or pitchers or anything like that that develop osteoarthritis. So there certainly is some degree of a genetic component. There's some degree of an overuse phenomenon. And then if we go back to the instability patient, even a single dislocation often sets a clock ticking for the development of post-traumatic arthritis. And the more dislocations you have, the greater likelihood there is of post-traumatic arthritis and maybe the higher likelihood of more severe post-traumatic arthritis. So there are a lot of different things that can lead to osteoarthritis. For sure. Are there key things of the history that would help you just if somebody's describing their pain? Let's say a 65 year old man, you're not sure if I send them to you, I'm not sure if it's rotator cuff or involving the joint. Are there ways that you tease that out based on history? >> It can be difficult because often times the pain from arthritis and the pain from rotator cuff can be similar, but the big difference is on exam the range of motion. And with arthritis, you typically notice a decrease in range of motion often times in all different planes and a degree of, as we go back to the capsule, what we call capsular discomfort, kind of pain at end range. When you get to the end of what they can do and you try to pull a little bit more, it really hurts. Which helps distinguish from rotator cuff where they often times have more pain through the impingement zone, as you alluded to earlier, as they get their arm kind of in that mid-range as they're lifting it up. typically have better motion but pain with activity and some weakness. And then the way to really diagnose arthritis and differentiate that from a frozen shoulder because of lack of movement is with X-ray. So when you have someone who's like you said the 65year-old with shoulder pain and some difficulty with movement then an X-ray can help differentiate between many conditions but will certainly show the underlying arthritis. >> Yeah. And so capsulitis because it involves a joint capsule is going to have that same sort of restricted range of motion like there's a limit to which they're feel comfortable and it's not necessarily in a specific plane, right? It is the thing that we talk about especially with our residents in terms of evaluating and diagnosing frozen shoulder or arthritis. If you're examining a patient and you are externally rotating their arm at the side, so taking them through passive motion. So active motion, patient lifting their arm on their own, passive motion, me taking their arm or shoulder through range of motion. If I am side and they lack external rotation, there are very few things that result in lack of passive external rotation. One of them is frozen shoulder, the other is arthritis, and the third is really a shoulder dislocation. It's not very common that we see someone with an undiagnosed dislocation in the office. Certainly in the emergency room or elsewhere, it's a possibility, but usually we're differentiating between frozen shoulder and arthritis for someone who lacks external rotation with their arm at the side. And the X-ray is key to making that differentiation. If you get an X-ray and it's a normal looking shoulder without any arthritis, then by definition, you have a frozen shoulder. If you've got arthritis, then it's probably more of an arthritic condition, which can be a frozen shoulder, but not an adhesive capsulitis. And just to go over this for our listeners and some folks who may have forgotten some of the descriptions of these movements, external rotation, you have your arm at your side, your elbow flexed 90° and then you are essentially keeping the elbow to your body. You sort of rotate it out and that movement is external rotation. That's exactly right. >> Yeah. And folks who have adhesive capsulitis or pathol, you know, OA of the joint, they can't do that. It will be restricted. And how do you know if it's restricted? It's nice to have the other shoulder to compare to. So certainly patients can have bilateral arthritis. In some rare situations, patients can have a bilateral adhesive capsulitis, but for the vast majority of patients with an adhesive capsulitis, you're comparing to the other side, which is normal, and they don't have a restriction there. And so, when you examine their shoulders, you know, side by side, and you see that one side only rotates out 10° or 15° and the other side rotates out 45 degrees, it's a pretty significant difference that you see. But yes, you're exactly right. keeping the arm at the side, elbow kind of tucked against the body, and then turning the hand out away. And if you're looking down at the shoulder, kind of thinking it as a clock face, you know, 12:00 in front of you, you're rotating out to the different, you know, 1:00, 2:00, 3:00 for the right arm, that type of thing. So, we talked about the rotator cuff muscles act as a group and coordinated pathology. I think of as tendinitis, partial tear, full tear. There may be other tear. Those are the big three I believe. >> Yes. And it's all kind of a spectrum. And I think one of the most challenging things with the rotator cuff is the nomenclature of rotator cuff tears because many terms are used interchangeably and to mean different things. And I think in talking with other physicians and patients about this, a full thickness rotator cuff tear is simply a tear where there is communication from the joint to the subocchocchromial space. There is a full thickness defect in one or more of the rotator cuff tendons. That full thickness tear can be really small. You could have a 1 millm full thickness tear, just kind of a small hole in one of the tendons. You can also have a full thickness tear that's 5 cmters from front to back. You can have partial thickness tears. So tears that don't go from the joint surface to the bal or the subocchromial space. And those can be partial tears on the top side of the tendon within the subocchromial space. They can be on the underside of the tendon within the joint. And those tears can be small or they can be really big. And they have different degrees of depth to them. And so it gets really confusing as we're talking about well it's a small full thickness tear versus a large partial thickness tear because many times patients will say well I thought it was a complete tear and you're like well it is you're right it is a complete tear but it's in a small portion of the tendon rather than the entire tendon or a multiple tendon tear and so yeah let me actually follow up on and clarify this because there's a point at which you tear the tendon or you tear the muscle and it's just not a fun I mean there you have two ends that are no longer connected Right. And that the shoulder's weak in that plane. It just can't move in that plane because the muscle is just not connected. >> It can be weak. Absolutely. But you know, if we go back to thinking again about this amazing force couple between the front and the back of the shoulder and the rotator cuff and the deltoid, you can have a complete tear of the suppinatus and still lift your arm and use it overhead. You can even have a full thickness tear of your suppinatus, infraspanatus, and subscapularis and be able to elevate your arm overhead if there is still rotator cuff or other muscle that can balance the deltoid as you're lifting your arm up. And so I think one of the most amazing numbers, a lot of people have studied the incidence of rotator cuff pathology. By age 60, half of the population has some degree of a rotator cuff tear. whether that's a full thickness tear or a partial thickness tear without symptoms. So it is very very common to have rotator cuff pathology with increasing age and not have it always be symptomatic. We talk about tendinitis which is just inflation of the tendon that's different from everything you're talking about although I imagine the inflammation can also lead to some tearing >> right and you know if you look at what's really happening in the tendon you know tendinitis is what we all say there's very little inflammation in the tendon tendinosis is probably the right term we often use tendinopathy to describe the condition but really what happens is there is often times disorganization of the collagen in the tendon there's swelling or water infilt ration in the tendon and not too many inflammatory cells or anything else, but it becomes painful because of the surrounding tissues. And truly, we don't really fully understand shoulder pain, why some conditions hurt, why some rotator cuff tears hurt, and others don't. But you're exactly right. there's some degree of pathology in the tendon in a tendonopathic condition or tendinosis and that can progress then to become a partial tear and those can progress to become full thickness tears. So I want to ask you about a term I've always been confused about and that is impingement syndrome. It seemed that I thought it meant one thing and I wasn't sure if it seemed to be used in different ways. Can you help us with that? when somebody says there's shoulder impingement or impingement syndrome what that means >> right if you look at how the glenoumeral joint moves now and again it takes into factors in the scapular thoracic movement as well but impingement is essentially all of whatever is between the hummeral head and the acchromian getting pinched as you raise your arm the hummeral head and its attachment to the upper armbbone isn't a perfect circle so it's more like a cam effect as you lift lift your arm up. And so as you lift your arm, if the acromian doesn't kind of move with your scapula and allow for the arm to come up overhead, you can have pinching of the rotator cuff or the subchocchromial bersa or anything else in that area getting essentially pinched between the top of the arm and the acromian. And that is impingement syndrome. And that can come from tissue rubbing on the bone itself. It can come from tissue rubbing on the corochromial ligament which is a structure at the front side of the shoulder. There are a lot of different causes of impingement. And here we're talking about external impingement which is in the subocchromial space. You can also have internal impingement inside the shoulder joint, the glenoumeral joint, where the rotator cuff actually impinges on the labreum in certain positions and that can be brought on in a number of different conditions. But essentially impingement is just pinching of structures with movement of the shoulder. I would imagine because it's an orchestrated movement around a joint that way way to think about it. If one rotator cuff muscle is not quite doing its job, it can offset the others leading to impingement. >> That's right. Yep. And one of the most common things in thinking about impingement going back probably to the 1980s, there was talk about how the shape of the acromian could result in impingement and rotator cuff pathology. And the acromian, if you look at it from the side, it can be flat, it can be a little bit curved, or it can be what's called hooked, a type three acromian. And it was initially kind of presented that the acchromial shape, whether it was curved or hooked, resulted in more impingement and more rotator cuff pathology. And that actually was found to not be true. That acromial morphology really doesn't affect the rotator cuff. And many of these are just normal shapes and spurring that develops over time, but it is still a very commonly held belief and something that's talked about with patients. Well, you've got a bone spur and that's causing impingement and so we need to remove that bone spur. And it's just not always the case. >> So, let's talk about the exam. Walk us through a shoulder exam in your office. What do you do and what does it mean when you find what you find? >> Yeah, sure. We can certainly talk through it and I will admit that it's probably difficult to explain it fully just by talking through it without demonstrating it. But what I'll say is I first start with a quick exam of a patient's neck. There's so much overlap between shoulder pain and potential neck pathology. Often depends on their symptoms and where their pain is. But examine their neck to look at neck motion and see if any of their neck movement reproduces ridicular pain or shoulder pain. and then move in first inspection. Make sure that I can see their shoulder. Often times that means having a patient put a gown on so we can see the the back side of their shoulder as well as the top and front. And look for signs of atrophy. Do we see atrophy in the suppinatus and infraspanatus fossa? That could indicate a chronic tear with muscle atrophy. Is there deltoid firing? And so just look for atrophy or any sort of deformity. And then from there moving into palpation and trying to palpate where their joint is painful. Is it at the AC joint on the top of the shoulder? Is it over the bicipital groove? Is it over the greater tuberosity? Is it at the joint line posteriorly? So we can palpate each of those areas and start to determine if there is pain from a specific spot. And then I move into range of motion. And the first thing I do is I check their passive external rotation at the side to actually determine if a patient has an adhesive capsulitis or a frozen shoulder because that really changes my thinking about treatment and the rest of the exam. And if someone has symmetric passive external rotation, then I move into having them elevate their arm. Forward elevation, abduction, having them reach behind their back, having them externally rotate at the side, externally rotate and internally rotate with their arm abducted or brought up to 90°. And by looking at their motion in these different planes, we start to get an idea of where's their pain coming from, but also is there tightness in a certain structure or laxity in a certain structure. And really again, the way to tell that is by comparing it to their other side. So almost always when I'm seeing a patient for the first time, I'm examining both of their shoulders for sideby-side comparison. So then after inspected, we've palpated, we've gone through motion, then I start getting into specific strength tests where I isolate the posterior aspect of the rotator cuff, the suppinatus, the subscapularis, test their biceps tendon, and then we can get into more specific tests to really look at laboral type pain or instability in the joint. And again, all of this depends on patients age and their kind of presenting symptoms. We don't necessarily need to do all of these exam tests on every patient, but we dictate our kind of exam to the patient's history and what we see as we start moving through each of these components. >> What does it mean to you if you're doing strength testing and somebody has weakness as opposed to pain in a particular plane? >> So then you have to think about where does that weakness come from? And most commonly in the shoulder, especially in again middle-aged to older patients, it's probably going to be the rotator cuff. But the rotator cuff, you have to think about the entire unit of the rotator cuff. The most common thing is tendonopathy or tear of the rotator cuff, but it actually could be weakness in the muscle. And is that because of a nerve issue or some other muscular pathology? That's not common, but it is something that we have to think about. So that's where looking and seeing signs of atrophy. Are they weak because their deltoid is atrophied and is that a C5 verticulopathy? Or are they weak because it's their rotator cuff and we don't see atrophy but they've got a rotator cuff tear. So painless weakness is interesting because it can have many different things and is very different than what we typically see with pain and some degree of weakness. >> Yeah. And I imagine oftenimes it's hard to tell the difference. You know, is somebody unable to do that motion because the pain or weakness or both? It could be both. Absolutely. >> Is there anything else about the exam? Little pearls that you tell your residents that maybe we didn't touch on? >> You know, I think the biggest pearl is what we've talked about is just looking at their external rotation at their side to determine if they have a degree of adhesive capsulitis just because adhesive capsulitis is so incredibly common and also so easily missed. And it's missed because we say, "Well, their shoulder hurts. It's not going to move." Right? And the reality is even with shoulder pain, we can help with movement and motion and shouldn't really lack that passive external rotation at the side. So while there are a lot of pearls, I think the main pearl to think about here is probably that examining external rotation with their arm at the side. One pathology we didn't touch on is berscitis. And I learned through a podcast maybe a year ago that bersa actually form the body forms them in any friction area of tendon on tendon. We have the common berscus epocchromial bersa these but actually anytime there's a tendon on tendon friction they can form a bersa in that spot. Right. >> Right. And interestingly I think if you think about what a bersa does it provides a lubricated surface between two opposing structures whether it's two tendons or in the subchocchromial space the rotator cuff tendons and the overlying acromian or bone. But the bersa often times is a reactive tissue. And so if there's abnormal movement in the shoulder, then the bersa can become inflamed. If there's tendinosis or tendinopathy, then the bersa can become inflamed. And really the only thing the bersa knows how to do if you want to think it in that way is make fluid. And so then you get a berscitis. While yes, you can have an infected berscitis. That's less common. It's certainly something to think about. But the most common thing is a reactive berscitis because of some abnormal movement or adjacent pathology. >> And what might make me think of berscitis if I'm examining a patient is there's an area of swelling. You're not supposed to get swelling in the shoulder, right? So if there's an area that's swollen, there's got to be some sort of burst of swelling, I think. And often times berscitis and impingement go together and you can sort them out on exam. But what the patient will say is using their arm down below shoulder level isn't so painful. But then as they lift their arm up, they get to a point where it's really painful. But then if they push through it, it lets up at the end. And often times that quote unquote impingement zone from just below shoulder level to almost full elevation where it hurts. And that's often times from berscitis and an impingement in that subocchromial space. >> So let's talk about management. And I'm going to throw four things to you here. One is injecting that you might do in the office. Two is physical therapy. But I want to dig into physical therapy a little bit cuz I'm curious exactly what you prescribe folks to do. And then when is it appropriate to do rotator cuff surgery that's not joint replacement? And then I want to talk about joint replacement. So those are my four sort of therapeutic areas. I can give them the celre and the moxyam. The rest of the stuff I can't well I could order physical therapy but you know and it's interesting I mean when you really kind of break it down into these broad categories there only so many things that we can do right medications whether it's oral topical or injectable we have different options. And the injections, it's really a matter of determining where the pain is coming from and whether an injection has a reasonable chance of helping, but also do the benefits of the injection outweigh the potential downsides. And we can talk more about that when we talk about rotator cuff repairs and everything if you want. But medications are an option along with physical therapy, activity modifications. So counseling patients to say, well, my shoulder really hurts when I do a 100 push-ups, but otherwise I can do everything else I want to do. And then it's a matter of, well, are the push-ups really that critical? Are there other exercises you can do? And are there treatments that are going to make it better so that you can do 100 push-ups, or is that just not a great expectation at this point? And then therapy, the key with therapy again is understanding the underlying pathology. So with a frozen shoulder, we want to prescribe stretching exercises in the beginning and not strengthening. Whereas with a rotator cuff, we want to work on motion and getting movement back, but we also want to work to strengthen the different parts of the shoulder, the rotator cuff that are still intact. And as you mentioned, may just not be working in unison. And we try to strengthen them to kind of take over or make up for in some degree the the tear. And so understanding the diagnosis will help prescribe the right therapy. And then ultimately surgery, it really again depends on the condition, the treatment that's been rendered so far and what the the natural history of the condition is. Let me go back through those if you don't mind. You know, when I was a resident, I had a VA clinic and we had some excellent general internists who did a ton of procedures and we were all taught how to inject a shoulder and patient came in with pain. And he said, "Doc, you know, I'm pain." And you would get the lidocaine and the steroid and mix it together and find the spot that hurt and you'd inject it and patients would often feel a lot better. And is that still done or are we now much more cautious about doing that? We were doing it relatively blindly. I mean, we had no idea what was wrong with the shoulder. We were just injecting the place that hurt. >> It absolutely is still done. There are many ways to do injections and again knowing where the pain is coming from will help you guide your injection to the right location. and at the shoulder. While there are multiple different places that you could inject when we're talking about true steroid inject corticosteroid injections, not necessarily trigger point injections, the subocchromial space is one area. The glenoumeral joint is another area. The AC joint is certainly an area. And then the other one that's rare but certainly can be thought about is the scapula thoracic joint and a berscitis there. Again, that one's not nearly as common as the others, but differentiating subocchromial pain and glenoumeral joint pain will help you guide your injection to the right spot. You can certainly do a subchocchromial injection or a glenoumeral joint injection based on anatomy and feel. And like most things, the more you do of them, the more experience you have, the more accurate you are in those injections. If it's not something you do routinely, then a guided injection, whether it's ultrasound guided or fllororoscopic guided injection, those are also very good options and are utilized a lot. So I very routinely will do subocchromial injections in the office without guidance. I'll do clenoumeral joint guidance. But for someone who has a really tight joint space or is really trying to differentiate need for surgery versus benefit of injection, then oftentimes a guided injection for the glenoumeral joint is a very reasonable and good way to go >> because that way you know you've gotten to the spot of the pathology and you can be confident that if it doesn't do any good that maybe you might think surgery is the next best option. >> Right? We talk about there really two reasons that an injection is not going to work. One is it doesn't get to the right spot and the other is the medication just isn't going to alleviate the pathology there. The kind of analogy is you show up to a building fire with a bucket of water, right? And you may throw a little bit of water, a little bit of corticosteroid on something, but if the pathology is a much bigger issue, it may not put that fire out or alleviate all the symptoms. It's much more helpful if you get that medication to the right spot. And so that's the other thing that a guided injection will typically do is confirm that it's in the right location. They're not perfect, but they are very good. Often times we would do those injections really so we could get to the patient to the point where they could participate in physical therapy without as much pain. Right. And so if I'm ordering physical therapy for shoulder pain and trying to not to bother you with somebody I think is probably going to be okay if they did physical therapy, is there anything specific I should know about the prescription or when they go to the physical therapist, are they going to kind of know what to do? Because >> Yeah, I think often times physical therapists are extremely good at making a diagnosis and prescribing or working patients through the right protocol, diagnosing a frozen shoulder. And I keep going back to frozen shoulder, but that's where often times it's more important to prescribe the stretching exercises, whereas when someone goes in and they're just trying to strengthen, they're trying to work through, they're trying to build their shoulder back, that can be more counterproductive than beneficial. And so, typically a prescription for me for say rotator cuff pathology, we ask the therapist to work on posture, making sure that that shoulder blade is in a good position. So strengthening around the scapula. So posture exercises, periscapular strengthening and then gentle range of motion exercises and then progressing to the strengthening. And so in general if a patient can range their shoulder and they can keep their shoulder blade stable, then you can progress with strengthening exercises and make progress there. And so usually the combination of posture, stretching, strengthening is a good way to go. I have a couple patients I share with you that probably need shoulder replacement surgery. I'm trying to convince one of them to do it. I think I saw two of them today. >> Yeah, you might have. So, there's the old total shoulder arthroplasty and then this newer thing, the reverse total shoulder TSA, which seems to maybe have replaced the traditional procedure, but you can walk us through what is that about. >> Absolutely. So with an anatomic total shoulder replacement. So first total shoulder just implies that we are replacing both sides of the joint the ball and the socket. A hemiarththroplasty is a partial replacement just a hummeral head replacement. That is a much less common procedure now especially because of the evolution of a reverse shoulder replacement. But when we talk about total shoulder involves the hummeral head and the the glenoid the anatomic total shoulder replacement we are removing the ball of the ball and socket joint replacing that and then essentially resurfacing or putting a new artificial surface on the glenoid and that is typically done for osteoarthritis. It requires an intact rotator cuff. And so if a patient has general osteoarthritis with an intact rotator cuff, the anatomic total shoulder replacement is a very good option and has historically been the best option for those patients. A reverse shoulder replacement has been around in Europe for much longer. It became FDA approved in the United States around 2004. And the indication for reverse shoulder replacement was a patient with a non-reparable rotator cuff tear in the inability to lift their arm. So not necessarily arthritis. I mean it is rotator cuff tearropathy but not glenoumer arthritis. So it was really meant for rotator cuff pathology. And the way it works is instead of replacing the ball with a ball and the socket with a socket, we still remove the ball but then that is replaced with a socket on the top of the armbbone. and where the socket is, we put a new ball there. And that changes the geometry of the joint to allow for essentially a stable pivot point while changing the center of rotation. And that allows the deltoid to power and lift your arm up. So for someone with a non-repairable rotator cuff tear, they don't have the rotator cuff to offset the deltoid. And so when they go to lift their arm, instead their shoulder just shrugs and their arm doesn't elevate. When you put a reverse shoulder replacement in, it changes center rotation, provides a stable pivot point, and then the deltoid can allow that new articulation to or the deltoid can power that new articulation to rotate and patient can lift their arm again. So that was the original indication for reverse shoulder replacement. But what we found is that the indications for reverse replacement have grown unbelievably in recent years. And if you look at large registries, there are many places where reverse shoulder replacements are done far more commonly than anatomic replacements. Even in some places where 90% of shoulder replacements are reverse shoulder replacements. And so it truly is becoming far more common. Many patients come in asking specifically for it or hearing about it. And there are many truths to what they hear. There are many rumors as well. But it is extremely common at this point originally for different indications but now often times a reverse replacement is done for many types of arthritis and shoulder pathologies >> and it's less morbid than the traditional procedure or no >> if you look the incision is the exact same. The procedure is very very similar. It's just placing different pieces of metal and pieces of plastic in different areas. From the outside it essentially looks the exact same. And there are some subtle differences that you can pick up on, but no, not necessarily less morbid or less invasive. I think the biggest difference is the anatomic shoulder replacement since it relies on the rotator cuff being intact to actually get access to the joint to do the replacement. You have to release the subscapularis tendon from the front of the shoulder and then repair that at the end of surgery. There are some techniques now where you can leave the rotator cuff intact and approach the shoulder differently, but the most common procedure, at least at this point, is still releasing the subscapularis and repairing it down. That needs to heal for the shoulder to do well afterwards. And it's protecting that subscapularis that really limits the early recovery after an anatomic replacement. In a reverse replacement, if you go back to the original indication, it's for rotator cuff tears and rotator cuff pathology. So it doesn't rely on that rotator cuff or the integrity of the rotator cuff for true function. And so often times you can rehab these patients a bit quicker. They don't need as much therapy. You don't have as much precaution in the beginning. So it's a bit quicker to them in the beginning. But there are trade-offs and I'm happy to talk about that, but I want to make sure we're talking about what you want to talk about here. Well, I want to get a sense of recovery because we're referring these patients to you for consideration or they come back to us. I say, "Doc, what do you think?" If I were to compare reverse shoulder replacement with say a knee replacement for instance or a hip, how do they compare? I always think of shoulder replacements being less of a big deal. It's a smaller joint and it you're still able to walk. To grossly generalize, hip replacements are often considered the easiest to recover from. You know, patients can walk out of the hospital on the same day as a hip replacement. And while there are challenges and things that need to go well after surgery, often times the hip replacement is the easiest, knee replacement can be more challenging because one of the main things with a knee replacement is getting that motion back quickly, getting flexion and extension because if you don't get it back early, it's difficult to get back later on. And then the shoulder replacements are somewhere in between. The nice thing about shoulder replacements, to many people's surprise, is even though it's an open surgery, the pain with shoulder replacements is often very little. And that's credit to current anesthesia and use of regional nerve blocks and multimodal pain regimens and everything. But often times patients don't require much in terms of pain medication after a shoulder replacement. Whereas rotator cuff repair has this notoriety be for being very uncomfortable early on. And that can certainly be the case. But shoulder replacements often times not limited by pain but really just protecting that subscapularis repair and anatomic arthroplasty versus starting some early motion and stretching in a reverse replacement. >> I know from working with you over the years you and your colleagues that most shoulder replacements don't come into the hospital or maybe they do. I had the impression that only patients who had higher complexity would come in. That's absolutely true and we've seen a shift towards outpatient surgery. Again, because of the advancements in regional anesthesia, use of transmittinic acid, TXA, so minimizing blood loss, it's very rare to have to or to need a blood transfusion after surgery. So, if you're not needing blood and your pain's controlled and your anesthesia was great and you've got a good home support network, then people do extremely well going home. And one of the biggest predictors of how patients will do going home is their care network at home. Do they have someone who can help them out? And if their medical coorbidities are such that it's safe to have them have surgery in the outpatient facility, then yes, same day surgery going home is very common. If they do come into the hospital, it typically is for a very short course. Often times a 23-hour stay just to make sure that patients are doing well the morning after surgery and then they're going home. What do you tell patients in terms of recovery? What they can expect and to have a functional shoulder, let's say, not full strength, but just functional, be able to use it. >> Yeah, it's a little bit different depending on the type of replacement, but I tell most of them the first 6 weeks a little bit protected. You know, we're protecting that repair and anatomics. We're trying not to go without restrictions with the reverse, but general stretching exercises in the first 6 weeks. Sling use to a certain extent in crowds during the first 6 weeks to protect the shoulder. At 6 weeks, we start to push a little bit more with range of motion and starting some light strengthening. The goal is to have really pretty good motion by 3 months. And then from 3 months to 6 months really work on getting the strength and the overall function back. By 6 months most of the improvement and recovery has occurred. Patients will truly improve for a year afterwards. But I kind of break it up into those 6 week and 12 week increments saying first 6 weeks slowest and toughest. By 3 months we want your motion. By 6 months we want motion and strength. And then from 6 months to 12 months just getting it to feel like a normal shoulder for everyday life. Andy, that's great. This has been an hour of great information. The shoulder is a complex joint and I now I understand why I'm confused because there's a lot going on. >> I hope I haven't confused things even more. I'm sorry. >> No, no, I think it's just a complex topic, but it was been very helpful. So, we've hit up against the hour. Is there anything else you want us to know as primary care physicians? I always ask people this at the end of the podcast, and I never tell them I'm going to ask it. And >> yeah, you know, I hit people. I think one of the most important things we talked a little bit about cuff and truly rotator cuff is my passion. So, we could have spent the whole hour talking about rotator cuff. And one thing we didn't talk about, we talked about the normal degenerative nature of rotator cuff pathology, but what we didn't talk about is the acute rotator cuff tear. And I think one of the key things that would be great for all of us to kind of partner together on is a patient who comes in and say they had a fall. Even if they're a 70-year-old patient, and I say 70, the age doesn't necessarily matter, but a patient who came in and had an injury, whether it's a fall or a lifting event or something like that, and now they can't lift their arm, that's a patient who we worry about an acute rotator cuff tear in. And getting a diagnosis of a rotator cuff tear with an MRI doesn't always have to be an MRI, but often times an MRI to diagnose that acute rotator cuff tear can really change our intervention and outcomes because acute tears do better with acute repair. And not all, we didn't get into all the indications for rotator cuff repair because certainly there are a lot of rotator cuff tears and pathology doesn't need surgery. But those acute tears, making that diagnosis quickly can be helpful. So, those are the patients that we don't want to send to therapy for 6 weeks and then inject and then bring them back and get an MRI and then say, "Oh, wow. You've got a rotator cuff tear." We want to see, you know, Monday I saw a patient. She fell last week. She has a rotator cuff tear. She's 70 years old. She can't lift her arm. We're going to fix that rotator cuff tear for her quickly and hopefully get her a better outcome than if we didn't diagnose it till down the line. >> That's really good information. We do occasionally see those patients who fall in and now if someone can't move their shoulder and can't lift it, I do send them right to you. And it's >> and we appreciate it. And that's the thing, you know, open open line of communication. If you have a patient like that and they need to get in, give us a call because those truly are the patients that we can potentially change the kind of natural history of what's going on with intervention early on. >> Andy, this is great. Thank you so much for coming on and maybe we can bring you back and talk about rotator cuff pathology. That won't be on a deep dive. Thank you. Absolutely. >> So, thanks to Dr. Coons for joining the Penn Primary Care podcast. Thanks to the audience for joining. Come back again next time.