- Skull base surgery is incredibly difficult because of all the vital structures, both nerves and blood vessels, that course through the skull base to and from the brain. In order to treat diseases of the skull base, most commonly tumors, you need somebody who's doing this every week to develop the technical skills, expertise, and most importantly judgment, about how to deal with these. Nothing teaches like experience. - The first maneuver when you have skull base tumors is to find the right surgeon to do it, and it's not just a surgeon, it's really a group of surgeons, and our group at Penn is one of the largest skull base tumor groups in the world. We don't just remove the tumor. We, in a comprehensive way, take a look at your whole body system and figure out what is the best treatment for you. - It's truly a multidisciplinary effort. We have an ENT team, a neuro-ophthalmology team, a radiation team. - We work very closely with our neurosurgical colleagues. Twice a month we meet with them and the neuroradiologists and the radiation oncologists, at a skull base tumor board, where any tumors of this area are reviewed as a group and discussed to make the most up to date recommendations for treatment. - We have lots of subspecialists that can tackle the voice, the hearing, the swallowing, the vision, intricate aspects of what happens after the surgery. - Our philosophy on patient care is personalized medicine. We want to make sure that the patient has an optimal outcome. The big key for us is early diagnosis and coming up with an accurate treatment plan. - Our goal is to be able to offer surgery that's minimalistic in terms of access and incisions. - Right now at Penn we are really pioneering the use of imaging to help us see tumors better. So one of the technologies called Tumor Glow is really one of the areas that we're excelling at. - Rather than making a big incision on the face, you can inject it, figure out where the tumor is, and just go "Boom, right to that." And then confirm at the end of it with the camera. - We are making progress every single year, and it’s an exciting time to be in the neurosciences, it’s an exciting time to be in cancer research. - We are always pushing the boundaries and pushing it to the next level. - It's a real privilege and honor to be able to provide this high level of service for patients.