I'm Theodore Diamanti, cardiologist and Dr. Ronald Barnett in here next to me is a pulmonary and sleep medicine physician. And uh today as part of our mainline health series uh I and Dr. Barnett will talk about sleep apnnea and snoring. Um I'd like to start with the case um 52-year-old man and this is you know a patient with common complaints that often presents to our practices. Um he presented with fatigue and excessive daytime sleepiness even after sleeping 10 hours nine 10 hours at night. uh he would always wake up you know fatigued. Uh he also reports shortness of breath and palpitations that most often happen at night uh but not exclusively. His weight is about 256 pounds and he has a high blood pressure which has been difficult to control even with three medications. And uh by using three or more medications, patients are considered to have what we call resistant hypertension or hypertension that u in addition to medications needs other measures. While waiting in the waiting room uh he falls asleep and starts snoring. So the staff reports to us that you know we have a patient out there that is falling asleep and they are concerned is is this patient well or not. If you ask the patient if that happens often his answer is always yes. Uh and there are even co-workers that have reported to him that sometimes he falls asleep at work and his significant other you know of course complains that he snores at night and often is difficult you know to share the same bed and often she needs to move to the other room. He comes to us with you know this complaints of fatigue but as you can see of course it affects his lifestyle it affects his relationship it affects his performance at work um and is asking us for help uh before I start talking about you know what kind of workup we need to get this patient into and how to treat his medical problem I want to mention a few things that this problem is often and it is you know probably affecting about 30 million adults in the United States 24% of the men and about 9% of women. So it's more prevalent in men than in women. It affects mainly older people, people that are older than 60 years old, but not exclusively. And more and more we're finding out that even younger people uh tend to develop this problem and also we have seen it in children that are overweight. Some of the signs and symptoms of this medical problem include the daytime sleepiness that I mentioned, the loud snoring, uh breathing sensation during sleep. often their significant others say if they you know come to our office visits they often say oh by the way now that you mention it doctor I've noticed that he breathes loudly and then it sounds like he stops or you know she stops breathing for a few seconds and often they have to wake this you know their partners or husbands and wives uh to make sure that they start breathing again they tend to wake up with a dry mouth or with a sore throat with morning headaches Um, often they wake up multiple times at night to use the bathrooms and I'll touch, you know, a little bit later why that happens. And often, as I mentioned, during the day they have a hard time falling asleep. At this point, I'd like to invite Dr. Barnett to talk to us a little bit more about obstructive sleep apnea, the incidents, as well as what it really is. And good evening. Sleep apneoa is a very common problem. We see it more and more and it affects more and more people and it affects more and more medical systems. Cardiology obviously diabetes is another one. And what happens is is that the the upper airway gets blocked. So the muscles in the neck collapse at night. Sometimes the tongue will fall back and it creates a blockage of the soft area in the back of the throat. Doesn't happen in the nasal passages which are firm. Doesn't happen in the lung but in the back of the throat. Many times it's worse when people lay flat because the back of the tongue will fall back and olude the airway a little bit more. It's extremely common. We are seeing more and more people being tired. Uh 6.9 hours in the 2002 poll of sleep during the week and 7.5 during weekends. We'd like to see people get between seven to nine hours of sleep to be well rested. Sleep symptoms uh mentions insomnia, snoring, restless legs, and apnea. In terms of daytime sleepiness, you can see that 37% of people uh report that excessive sleepiness in interferes with their day-to-day activity. Uh and it can happen quite often. Uh, an MSLT, which you see at the bottom, is actually a nap test that measures how tired you are. Uh, people need sleep aids to help fall asleep, and some people need medicines to help them stay awake. So, sleep apnea happens again when the muscles in the back of the throat collapse. Who do we see normally that has this? Typically, it's people who have a neck size in men of 17 inches or bigger. It's easy for the men because we buy our shirts that way. For women, it's 16 in or bigger. Typically, there is snoring involved, but you don't necessarily have to snore to have sleep apnnea. Nor do you have to have sleep apnea to snore. Most of the time they are connected. Daytime sleepiness is a problem leads to diminished daytime function including depression, learning difficulties, social issues, um missed days at work and the worst is safety risks where people will fall asleep because they are excessively tired. It's interesting that if you look at tiredness compared to drinking and alcohol, people who are excessively tired are just as impaired as people who are intoxicated with alcohol. And it again 51% of people on that survey in 2002 were reported to be drowsy while driving, 17% dozed. uh rack the accident rate was higher and people who are excessively tired and you can see uh police reports and highway crashes. At the bottom it talks about people who do shift work such as house staff and hospital workers and they fall asleep more often as well. Shift workers have difficulty with sleep as well and whether it's a somebody in the hospital or somebody who works any shift of any uh job can have more sleepiness. Who's at risk? Pretty much anybody. Um, shift workers is mentioned. Uh, four million sleep apnnea people, truck drivers, for example. Uh, in Australia, if you work for a trucking company, you need a sleep study before you can go out on the road. Why? Because they know that it's a common phenomenon. And if something happens from an accident standpoint, the company is liable, not the individual. Who do we think about in people who have sleep apnnea? Again, people have gained some weight, people who are excessively tired, people who snore, and then there's other medical conditions associated with it. hypertension which was mentioned, diabetes, kidney disease. The way we figure out sleep apnnea is by doing a sleep study. An overnight sleep study is where you come to a lab. You get hooked up to lots and lots of wires. We measure everything from head to toe. We measure brain waves to make sure that you are asleep and what stage of sleep you're in. We measure air flow. We measure oxygen. There's a microphone that measures snoring. We measure chest movement, abdominal movement, leg movement, and oxygen. So why is this important? Because the underlying problem with sleep apnnea is that the airway is blocked. When the airway is blocked, your oxygen drops. If your oxygen drops, that's what puts you at a medical risk. So, Dr. Diamonte will talk about some of the cardiac side effects of that. But the real issue is low oxygen, airway control and oxygen. And if you're just a snoring person, snoring without any oxygen deficiency, you won't develop the same medical issues that the people with sleep apnnea have. So oxymmetry, which is in the middle, is extremely important to figure out who needs to be treated. Uh we're just starting to do portable sleep studies. The insurance world is starting to uh approve some of those, but the gold standard still is going to a sleep lab, sleeping overnight. They like a six-hour time of measurement to make sure that it's an adequate study. If you do have sleep apnnea, there are certain treatment options based on the severity of the disease. Our scale that we use for sleep apnea severity is as follows. Zero to five episodes of sleep apnoa per hour is normal. So everyone has a little bit. 6 to 20 events of sleep apnnea per hour is mild. 20 to 30 is moderate and if you stop breathing more than 30 times in an hour that's severe. Treatment is based on severity. Not only do we look at the number of events but as I mentioned earlier we look at oxygen levels as well. The more severe, the worse you will have risk issues with other medical with with your other systems such as cardiac, with diabetes. Um, and the higher the number, the worse off you are. So, treatment options include that mask that some people have seen, some have not. And the idea is that we use positive airway pressure, CPAP, continuous positive airway pressure to control the airway. It's all about the airway. What the mask does is it's hooked up to a compressor and it blows in a certain amount of force to keep the airways open. When the airway stays open, the oxygen levels stay normal. There are a few people who are so bad that need oxygen as well as the mask and the oxygen is hooked into that device and not only does it keep the airway open but it floods the airway with oxygen. The mask is effective and works 99 out of 100 times which is pretty good. And what the mask does is by keeping the airway open and if you remember on that earlier slide where the airway narrowed it resolves the apnea, it resolves the snoring and it resolves the oxygen issues. So for the most severe people, they need this continuous positive airway device. And there's different variations of masks and different variations of delivery of the pressure, there's continuous pressure as well as by level pressure where if it's a very high pressure, it's hard to breathe back out. So we can adjust the pressure in versus the pressure out to make it a little bit more palatable. Surgical interventions are not as good. So whereas CPAP works 99 out of a 100 times, surgical intervention works about 40% of the time. And what the surgery does is it opens up the airway or it's an attempt to open up the airway by doing surgery and not using positive pressure. And there are variations of that surgery as well. So for example, if you only snore, the ear, nose, and throat surgeon can cut out the thing that hangs down the back of your throat called the uvula, and that helps with snoring alone, but not apnea. They end up doing what's called a uvulo palatoto furing plasty. Basically they do a rotorooder of the inside and try and open up the air passage. Typically if your index the number of times you stop breathing per hour is 25 events or higher you are not a good surgical candidate. The best surgical candidates are people who have more snoring, less apnea, and adequate oxygenation. Where CPAP, the mask, will drop however many episodes of apnea per hour to zero. So if you stop breathing a 100 times an hour, it drops it to zero. The surgical intervention may drop it only a handful. So if your events are 30 per hour and you get the surgery, it might drop it only to 20 an hour in which case you end up wearing the mask as well. Now there are some other things that they can do uh surgically um not as invasive where they can insert some silicone rods into the top of your pallet to try and cause some irritation and try and open up the airway that way. Not nearly as effective. Jaw correction we rarely do. And the ear, nose, and throat team and the oral surgeons actually cut the jaw, pull it forward, put screws in so that the whole jaw is pulled forward to pull out the tongue and to open up the airway. Clearly not a standard of what we do. And for the people who are severe, and we don't do this very often, they end up getting a surgical opening in the neck called a tracheosttomy. And what that accomplishes is that fixes the problem. Why? Because the opening is below where that area is that collapses. Clearly, we don't do that very often as well. Typically that kind of person presents to the hospital in respiratory failure, goes to the intensive care unit on a ventilator. We can't get them off the ventilator and they end up getting a tracheosttomy and we usually leave it in because it helps with their sleep apnnea. Now, an apnea by definition is 10 seconds or longer. So, think about that. 10 seconds. One, two, three, four, five. It's a long time. And when that happens, when you get to 10, you you can understand why the oxygen starts to drop. So, there are some other remedies. uh weight loss helps. Sometimes a 10% weight reduction. So if you're 200 200 lb, 10% is 20 pounds. Sometimes a 20 pound weight loss will help with the apnea. Weight loss also helps with snoring. Alcohol is actually bad for people have sleep apnnea because it makes it worse. Sleeping medications uh also worsen sleep apnnea and people shouldn't take those unless they wear the mask to protect them. It's worse on your back most of the time because of the tongue falling down as you saw in that earlier picture. So sleeping on your side sometimes is helpful. A trick that we use is we tell people to sew a tennis ball into the back of their night shirt so that it's uncomfortable to lay on their back and that never works. Uh, a wedge is probably a better idea. When to see a doctor? Uh, snoring, weight gain, tiredness, apnea at night, gasping for air at night, tired during the day. We're all irritable, so we'll leave that one out. Um, there are a couple of other associated medical issues. Dr. Diamonti is going to talk about the cardiac side again in a moment. Um, if you are excessively tired and are sleepdeprived, you develop what's called the metabolic syndrome, which is where you become insulin resistant and you become diabetic. So whereas we in the sleep world are used to this and doing sleep studies, the rest of the medical community is becoming more and more aware of it. So for example, if you have new onset of heart disease, whereas in the past you would get an echo cardiogram and a stress test, now you also get a sleep study. If you're a new diabetic and they're having trouble regulating your sugars and you end up on insulin, those people get a sleep study. If you're overweight and looking to get beriatric surgery, every patient there gets a sleep study because the assumption is if they're a little bit heavy that they have apnea. And the beriatric surgeons want to make sure that they preserve the oxygen level and that they preserve the cardiac function so that you can tolerate the operation. And I think I will turn it over. So as you can see this is not a simple problem. It's more of a systemic problem. It starts somewhere and we don't know where exactly it started but we know where it's heading and patients that have obstructive sleep apnea tend to develop and probably the main presentation or the reason why they come and talk to us is one of the following high blood pressure. Some of them have an episode where they get admitted in the hospital and their physicians tell the patient that you have heart failure. When I say heart failure, uh please understand that not every patient that presents in the hospital with a diagnosis of heart failure has a weak heart. Their heart sometimes is thickened but it's pumping and it's throwing enough blood into their system, meaning brain, kidneys, muscles, etc., but has a hard time, a very hard time relaxing. and that causes an increase in their blood pressure and in other parameters that we look at. Other times they present with irregular heartbeats or arrhythmias. And sometimes those arhythmias can be very benign, some extra beat, a few pulpitations which tend to be rare and other times they can be very concerning and potentially life-threatening. And I'll touch uh a little more on that a little later. Other patients that present in the hospital with coronary artery disease, blockages of their heart vessels, often carry the diagnosis of sleep apnea, often are overweight, but not always, and upon their history taking, we start hearing that they tend to snore. As Dr. Dr. Barnett mentioned earlier, there are patients that present in the hospital with respiratory failure. Other patients present in the hospital or go to their primary care physician or gastroenterologist and they tell them that they have reflux disease or dyspsia or burning in their chest. And it is our role as physicians to figure out if that burning in the chest is due to gastroosophageal reflux or regurgitation or if it's something more serious like coronary artery disease etc. And there have been a few cases that's why I edited in this slide that patient just die on their asleep or they are awake but they have one of the bad arhythmias. So if you look on the left side of this slide about 24% of men and 9% of the women women if with their part of it part of our process you know we will age but if you add into that algorithm the weight issue and if they were to snore develop the problem of obstructive sleep apnnea then the problem potentially can become much worse because they develop high blood pressure, coronary artery disease, syndrome X which we mentioned a little earlier. They become resistant to diabetes and they can develop even heart failure. This is just a slide to show you a normal how our blood pressure changes during the night sleep or during the day. Initially when we wake up our blood pressure tends to be a little higher around 140 and then during the late hours of the day it starts going down. At night when we fall asleep our blood pressure tends to go down significantly about 20 millm from the baseline and then in the early morning hours it starts going up. In patients with obstructive sleep apnea which are represented on the right side of this slide. Instead of having normal variations of their blood pressure when they are awake or when they are asleep, their blood pressure is all over the place and especially at night tends to be a lot higher that during the day. Talking a little bit more on patients with sleep apnea and high blood pressure, we see it that patients that do have obstructive sleep apnea have a four time increase on the risk of developing high blood pressure. So we take it seriously. blood pressure responds to treatment, but as I mentioned earlier on, sometimes it's resistant and patients require more than two, three, and often more medications to treat or control their blood pressure. Often we always see that once patients are started on one of the breathing treatments that Dr. Barnett mentioned earlier, their blood pressure all of a sudden is much easier to control. Often if those patients start losing weight and if they lose 5 10 20 pounds their blood pressure is much easier to control to the point that often we have to either decrease the dose or probably discontinue one or more of their medications because we do not want patients to be hypotensive or with low blood pressures either. the sleep apnea and the sudden death. Um, most of the patients that have arrhythmias that can potentially be life-threatening tend to happen between early hours of the morning and noon, between 6:00 a.m. and 12 noon. In patients that have do have obstructive sleep apnea, that problem happens to be much earlier during the night. It is for whatever reasons and sarcadian rhythms etc. Patients tend to experience chest pains or heart attacks after they wake up in the early hours of the morning. In patients with obstructive sleep apnea, sometimes they don't even wake up because their apnea time or their low oxygen levels tend to happen during the night hours when they are completely asleep. Their oxygen level drops. the demand for blood flowing to the heart increases or the heart is more stressed and that's when the heart attacks or the arhythmias happen. Palputations. A lot of people present with palpitations. Not all of them mean that the patient has obstructive sleep apnnea, but if they do, we take them very seriously. Often we send those patients home wearing monitors. Sometimes for 24 hours, sometimes for 48 hours, and sometimes for even two or four weeks. rarely, not that often, we even send patients home with what we call event recorders that they sometimes wear them for about six months and often we implant them under their skin and every so often we monitor them and see what those event recorders show and we monitor essentially every single heartbeat of those patients. This slide just shows you that in patients with obstructive sleep apnea the risk for developing what we call nonsustained ventricular tachicardia and this is a form of arhythmia that starts from the bottom of the heart. The normal impulse of the heart is supposed to start on the top and then go on the bottom and the two chambers on the top need to coordinate with the bottom chambers of the heart. While one two chambers contract, the other two relax and vice versa. Sometimes with nonsustained ventricular tachicardia, the bottom chamber of the heart is not even talking to the upper chamber of the heart and often beats very fast. Sometimes at rates above 120 150 beats per minute. That's why often can become or potentially become life-threatening. PVCs are more often in patients with obstructive sleep apnea. They are not as life-threatening as the ventricular tachiardas. Atrial fibrillation incidents in patients with obstructive sleep apnea increases by four-fold. What is atrial fibrillation in a few words? Is the upper two chambers of the heart just start fibrillating instead of contracting and pushing blood through the valves into the lower chambers of the heart and out into the systemic circulation or meaning brain and arms and the rest of our organs. The two upper chambers that just shake, they just fibrillate. Patients that undergo treatment for the atrial fibrillation and one of the treatments is cardioversion if they treat their obstructive sleep apnea the likelihood of them not having the arrhythmia again is much higher that patients that do not undergo treatment. This is the group of patients that are have untreated obstructive sleep apnnea and this is the recurrence of atrial fibrillation. These are the patients that have treated obstructive sleep apnnea and almost half of the patients that continue to treat the obstructive sleep apnnea have reoccurrence of those symptoms. Sleep apnea and stroke. I mentioned the arrhythmia the atrial fibrillation. The risk of stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation goes up probably by five to 10fold. Or in other words, in 1 to two years, a patient that has atrial fibrillation has somewhere between 5 and 10% risk of having a stroke. Not good. That's why we often prescribe blood thinners for those patients to try to lower that risk of having a stroke as much as possible. But as you understand, even blood thinners carry their own risks. The occurrence of stroke in patients with obstructive sleep apnnea is well known well studied and it goes up for reasons that I mentioned earlier. One of them being atrial fibrillation. Another reason is if patients tend to have many episodes of of sleep apnea during the night the demand the supply and demand of oxygen goes up and down but mainly we are concerned when it goes down. So the risk of stroke from those patients goes up. by almost 4%. Sleep apnea and the heart failure. All the previously mentioned problems including the arhythmias tend to cause trouble and one of the problems is heart failure. Patients that have more arhythmias tend to develop more heart failure. Patients that have coronary artery disease tend to develop more heart failure. weight becomes a major issue with those patients. Why? Because the heart has to work harder and CPAP or the treatment the breathing treatment the masks tend to help not only the sleep apnea but also to relieve the symptoms or improve the outcomes in patients with heart failure. Meaning less hospitalizations, less medications, better quality of life. What tests do we do? One of the most common ones is an electroc cardiogram to see what's going on with heart rhythm and see if there is an abnormal electroc cardiogram. Often they need an echo cardiogram and an echoc cardiogram speaks volume and tells us a lot about the pumping function of the patient's heart. Is it pumping normal? Is it abnormal? Are the pressures in the heart high or low? Is there problem with the valves of a patient's heart or not? Is there any leakage or insufficiency on those valves or not? And often we perform what we call a stress test. A stress test tells us about how good the heart responds to a stressful situation or meaning in other words, how does the heart respond to an increased heart rate? Does this patient have coronary artery disease or not? And the stress test, the accuracy is approximately between 95 and 98%. Which is pretty accurate. And one of the findings that we see on the stress test, as soon as we get patients on a treadmill, their blood pressure all of a sudden shoots up, goes from probably around normal to often around 200 millimeters mercury. Of course, not a good point. So, what can we do about it? First and foremost, I think behavior modifications. If patient is overweight, they need to work on weight loss. The sedatives are not good because they might increase or worsen the sleep apnea. Sleeping pills again are not good. If they do smoke, they should quit smoking. and exercise. Even a low to moderate level of exercise, meaning 15 to 20 minutes of exercise a day, has been shown to benefit patients. Again, I went through the complications um with regards to gastroosophageal reflux. Again, some weight loss and treatment of obstructive sleep apnnea of course helps with those symptoms. If there is no relief with regards to gastro reflux, of course there are medications and other things that we can do and of course we can talk to a gastroenterenterologist and often they have what we call um an inflamed esophagus or the food pipe. If it gets inflamed, patients tend to develop a lot of irritation. Not a pleasant feel. I'm missing the slide. And I want to end it with something that is very important to me. About a third of the population in the United States um at this point is considered either overweight or obese. I think the next challenge for our health care system is not going to be smoking or smoking sessation. is going to be weight. And what we're finding out is that a lot of our children have this problem. And we're seeing more and more children that have not only weight problems, but they also do snore and they have obstructive sleep apnnea. So remember that. And that is probably something that we or you if you see a child or if you have a child that you know probably we need to talk to a pediatrician or their physician because it is not anymore only a disease of the adults or of the elderly. This problem is becoming we're seeing more and more of it.