- Life before surgery entailed pain that increased with time. Everything I tried only worked for a little and then pain would come back and would come back even more. I'm big into the outdoors. I like to hike. I like to mountaineer. I like to rock climb. I like to bicycle, kayak. Anything that has adventure, I'm in for it. But as time moved on, the pain kept coming back sooner and sooner. I couldn't do my hiking anymore. I couldn't do my kayaking anymore. Life was not worth it if I couldn't do the things I loved. So surgery for me was no-brainer. So I decided to look for a good neurosurgeon and my cousin suggested Dr. Dante from Virtua. Immediately after I met him, I knew he was the surgeon for me. - Mike was a very active person. He was doing a lot of athletic activity and had some wear and tear on his back and joints, and he was just being more and more disabled by chronic pain. The problem for Mike is trying to identify where the pain was coming from. He had been through various evaluations trying to decide was it a hip problem or a knee problem and then we finally determined that he was having some spinal stenosis that was causing nerve compression. He needed surgery that had some complexity to it. We talked about the fact that we could provide the surgery with a team of people at Memorial Hospital at Virtua who were really experienced with spinal operations, even these complex surgeries. - It worked out perfectly for me because I was able to have my surgery done in south Jersey in a local hospital, a great hospital, Virtua Memorial. I had my Penn doctor. I couldn't ask for anything more. - I think Mike is an example of how well we can provide surgery in New Jersey through the Virtua system and get patients back where they want to be in terms of a very active, functional lifestyle. - Everything went beautiful. Beautiful to the point that six months, exactly six months from the day he did surgery, I was skiing black diamond bump runs out in British Columbia. [birds chirping]