Welcome to this podcast series from the experts at Penn Medicine. I'm Melanie Cole and today we're talking about spinal deformities and treatment options at Penn Medicine. Joining me in this panel are Dr. Ali Ozurk. He's an assistant professor of neurosurgery at the Pennsylvania Hospital and Dr. Vincent Arlay. He serves as chief of adult spinal deformity surgery within the department of orthopedic surgery at Penn Medicine and he's co-director of the spine surgery fellowship at the hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. Gentlemen, I'm so glad to have you join us today. Dr. Ozurk, I'd like to start with you. Please help us understand the spectrum of spinal deformity that you see in practice so that our audience can get a better sense of this condition. What are the types of spinal deformity you see at Penn Medicine? Most commonly uh we can divide spinal deformities that we see in adults into two groups. One of which is scoliosis. That's an abnormal curve of the spine. Many of these are asymptomatic uh and they don't necessarily require intervention. However, if they progress, it can be very painful. In addition, the pain can radiate to the legs if nerves are compromised or manifest as severe back pain. Second major category is a sort of a kyphotic deformity where patients start leaning forward. This can be just due to aging but most commonly we see that deformity following surgery. Yes. And uh I would like to add uh as well we see a fair number of patient who had previous surgeries and after some years the uh deterative process adds on and they develop deformity above their previous surgery. So it's not uncommon to see a patient who had a previous surgery would develop scoliosis kyphosis and or flat back. Dr. Arlay, do we know what the cause is? So most commonly the scoliosis associated with the degenerative process of the spine. What happens is uh the disc is going to collapse on one side in a symmetric fashion and it's going to induce local forces and the patient is going to develop uh significant deformities. So one thing that was um minimal initially with this asymmetric disc degeneration can become in a bigger problem as the years go by with further degeneration of the spine. So that is one of the uh accepted mechanism of the uh adult scoliosis. Dr. Ozurk, tell us about some of the recommended imaging studies for patients with spinal deformity and about the advanced diagnostics available at pen medicine that you use. We like to be very thorough in our workup with these patients. Um this is a when surgical treatment is to be considered, it's a very complex decision. uh since many of these patients are old and the surgeries are usually uh fairly involved both in terms of the length of the operation and in terms of uh blood loss. Um and it's a long recovery. So uh pre-operatively we typically get uh an MRI of the lumbar spine uh possibly the thoracic as well. We like to have a CAT scan uh of some of the same areas. Uh this shows us the bone better. Uh in addition, it shows us any of the prior screws or fusion constructs if they are solid or if there's for example been a non-union. Uh we always get uh what's called standing films with our EOS machine. We have the only one to my knowledge in Pennsylvania um at Pennsylvania hospital. This is a very lowd dose radiation that takes an x-ray of the entire body from head to toe. And we can appreciate if patients are compensating for their uh forward posture say by flexing their knees uh and their hips. Uh so it gives us really a complete assessment uh of the of the body and the skeletal alignment. And lastly, we have a very low threshold to get DEXA scans uh to appreciate the bone quality. Again, we like to make sure that um the bone quality is good. We use a lot of screws for our correction. And so the screws, like any screw, is about as good as the wood we put it into. So that's sort of the last piece of the puzzle. If a patient has a pacemaker or um you know can't get an MRI for good reason or if they have too much hardware from a prior surgery sometimes we'll get a CT myogram which can substitute for the MRI and show us the nerves. Yes I would like to add that we've had had this EOS machine Dr. Olto was talking about for the last four or five years and I think thanks to uh this machine we have a much better understanding of the uh problem the patient has and how to achieve the goal to uh get a better um surgical outcome. Uh I think there's definitely a big advance in the the quality of a surgery thanks to this machine. So it's a big plus we have at pen medicine. uh treating this patient with aspir deformities Dr. parlay neuro and ortho do they work together right from the get-go or is there a point at which there's a handoff tell us how that works I think each case is a very um specific just to uh uh the symptoms of the patient but definitely uh we work as a team we have a combined conference we have once a week where we discuss our cases uh and uh uh we have some cases where we want the surgery to uh uh go faster to be expedited in in a timely manner and we uh uh both teams neurosurgical team and orthopedic team work together Dr. Ozurk as we're talking about surgical procedures now before we do are there any nonoperative non-surgical help for these issues and then if you would please let us know some of the approaches that you might use surgically our principle in spine is to always start with non-operative treatment. There are certain red flags of course for example a profound weakness unbearable pain bowel and bladder symptoms are things that merit uh urgent surgery. In the absence of these things, uh our approach would always be to try a course of physical therapy and then subsequently to try pain management. If patient fails conservative therapy is when we would consider surgical options. It's extremely important that we get an accurate assessment of the patient's symptoms. Someone might have a severe scoliosis, but their only problem might be a single nerve root that's being pinched off. That patient might just benefit from a simple decompression. In other cases, the patient needs a complex reconstruction. This is usually done with multiple levels of pedacle screw instrumentation. The levels of which vary very significantly based on the imaging and the patient's needs and several levels of osteotoies. That's when we remove certain elements of the bone so as to loosen it up. In addition, in terms of scoliosis, we don't worry quite as much about correcting the curve necessarily as at at the end of our treatment to have what we call for the spine spine to be in harmony, meaning uh the head resting over the patient's pelvis both in the coronal and sagittal plane. These are priorities and I think Dr. Olay would agree it's very patient specific based on the surgery they've had before, where the deformity is, the severity uh and and so forth. Yeah, at PEN we we always start with a conservative treatment. We have our pain management team uh and all of them help us to treat the patient conservatively. Now when it comes to surgery, we use the the skills of our um general surgeon to access to the spine and most of the essential surgery nowadays done in minimal invasive fashion. So uh I think with the team we have of neurosurgeons, access surgeon and orthopedic surgeon, we're very well verssed into uh tackling the most complex smile deformities in the adult population. So Dr. Olay, you just brought up second opinions and referral and your expertise. Tell us about the expertise of the specialists at Penn Medicine in the spine center and what would you like other referring physicians to know about referral and the specialists available there? cases. I mean we have the large array of specialists I was talking about and this physical medicine the pain medicine doctors we have our radiologist who help us read some complex MRI or milo CT scan when it's difficult we have our physiotherapist that take care of our patients so there's no question we have large group of specialists to help us to decide about the surgery The other thing too we should look into is uh some of these patient have a severe osteoporosis and they require to have uh treatment of their osteoporosis before we can think of doing the spine surgery. So rheumatologists are there to to help us uh maximize the bone strength of our patients in the same manner this as this surgery are quite invasive when the medical treatment conservative treatment has failed. We need to optimize the uh the patient to the surgery and that's is done with what we call prehab. That means we uh want the patient to get to the surgery in the best physiologic state doing exercise, physiootherapy and uh and maximize his nutrition status, stop his smoking, try to cut down on his opioid medication. All these require a team approach uh which is going to uh maximize the outcome of the surgery. So I think it's very important to work as a team and uh I think as a surgeon we have to listen to everybody. Everybody's input is important when we decide to uh uh to treat a patient spinal deformity. Dr. Oz Turk would you like to add anything else in the area of technical considerations you'd like to share with other providers? The main technical considerations when we think about the spine is that first how to get to it. As Dr. Arlay mentioned uh we can access the spine from an anterior, posterior or lateral um approach. Um there are several uh considerations when con considering which is the best approach. Very frequently in deformity patients it needs to be a combination of an anterior or a lateral and a posterior. Other times we can address it all posteriorly. Obviously that's the most direct access to the approach. The other thing we need to decide is uh how much to fuse and if so how many levels. Um sometimes if the patient's principal problems are in the legs indicating nerve compression if we can identify that clearly we can offer just a decompression which case we don't necessarily put in screws we're not doing a fusion. Uh the recovery from those operations tend to be a little quicker. Um and uh they can be very rewarding again if the principal complaint is chiefly in the legs. When there starts to be more of a structural issue, meaning the patient's sort of lost their posture and the back pain is severe, is when we need to consider doing fusions again, in which case we can go uh from multiple uh uh routes uh to access the spine. Coming from an a front approach, an anterior approach, uh has the advantages of we're much more able to straighten the spine out. Um so we do like to do that because many of these patients tend to be leaning forward and that that leads to quite a bit of back pain. And then lastly, where to stop our fusion. And while we try always try to do the least amount possible, we at the same time want every one of our surgeries to be the last one in the spine, it's very possible to kind of address a uh the patient's issue right at that instant, but the patient might be back 6 months later. That's not what we want. We want to reach a point where we don't think the patient's going to have any more surgery. That's our ideal goal. Terms of our outcomes, these are very complex cases and you know, as Dr. Ali mentioned, we have an excellent team here. We have to be very calculated in who we offer surgery to. So we do an extensive workup pre-operatively. We discuss as a team uh which patients we're going to operate on and we make sure that they're in, you know, the best shape that they can be before we offer the surgery. And at following the operation, we have an excellent ICU. With comp with complex surgeries like this, it's always uh it's extremely important to be done at a hospital and a team that has that has extensive experience. And that's what we're so happy to be able to offer here. This isn't just routine back pain and we're not operating on routine back pain here. This is absolutely lifealtering. A lot of these patients aren't able to leave the house due to their pain. And so when we get them straightened and their leg and back pain improved, it can be a 3 to 6 month process. But with life expectancy uh constantly um uh uh lengthening in this country. Uh you know someone who comes to you at 70 75 might have 10 15 years life expectancy and that's who we try to pick. They're absolutely some of our happiest patients and we're just so happy to restore them to a functional lifestyle for that long. Dr. Arlay, before we wrap up, what research avenues are you currently exploring to advance treatment for spinal deformity? I think this we have lots of exciting avenues just one is the uh robotic surgery which I'm not sure applies yet to complex my deformities but definitely some of the uh robotic or advanced imaging techniques may help in uh in the future to treat this spinal deformity. We've made a good advance in terms of biologic in terms to achieve a fusion. uh then the artificial intelligence is going to be probably the next step to being able to uh tell us what we have to do when we see a patient. So I think the artificial intelligence is going to be uh the next step forward. So we'll be able to have a much better understanding of what represent the best outcome, how to get to the best outcome and have a much better understanding of how to optimize the patient outcome. Thank you gentlemen so much for joining us and sharing your incredible expertise on this comprehensive and complex topic. Thank you again. That concludes this episode from the experts at Pen Medicine. To refer your patient to a specialist at the Pen Medicine Spine Center, please visit our website at penmed.org/refer or you can call 877937P for more information and to get connected with one of our providers. Please remember to subscribe, rate, and review this podcast and all the other PEN medicine podcasts. I'm Melanie Cole.