Welcome to the podcast series from the specialists at Pen Medicine. I'm Melanie Cole and we're speaking today with Penn Medicine cardiologist Dr. Monica Sangavi about myocardial inffection and non-obstructed coronary arteries or moninoa a syndrome that appears in up to 14% of patients having acute my mocardial infuction. Dr. Dr. Sangavi, we know from the Manurva study and others that little is known about the clinical profile or the functional and psychosocial status of patients with moninoa. Do we know who the typical patient is? Do we know who's at risk? So if we think about mina, we have to compare it to your typical coronary artery disease patient because the only way that moninoa is diagnosed is when you're in the kath lab. So the typical MI patient and a mina patient present the same way. They have chest pain, EKG changes, biomarkers suggestive of an MI, but the difference is when they're taken to the Kath lab, Minoa patients do not have obstructive coronary arteries. And that's the diagnosis of Minoa. When we look at the epidemiology of Minoa, we can see that these patients are usually younger. They're usually female and often ethnic minorities. Could you elaborate on any cause that we know of? So when you have a diagnosis of mina, it's absolutely important for a physician to look into this a little bit further. And the reason being is that for many years, Minoa patients were sent home thinking that they don't have obstructive coronary arteries. They're fine. However, what we've seen is these patients actually are at higher risk for persistent chest pain. They're at higher risk for recurrent hospitalizations for chest pain. They're more likely to have a recurrent MI and actually even more likely to die than someone who did not have the mocardial inffection in the first place. And so if we think about this, it's really important to get to the underlying cause for these patients so that we can understand how to treat them. Studies have shown that there's a wide variety of causes of mina spanning from coronary vasospasm which is basically when the coronary artery spasms enough that it causes obstruction of flow to the mioardium. There is SCAD, spontaneous coronary artery dissection, which is much more common in young women. Microvascular disease, which is a problem with or a dysfunction of the small blood vessels of the heart. There's so many smaller blood vessels that provide and regulate blood flow to the heart that we don't see on angio. And when these are dysfunctional, they are also thought to be able to cause a mioardial inffection. Other things include plaque erosion as opposed to plaque rupture. And plaque erosion is thought to be more common in women. And so there are so many possible causes. There also some people who have shown that sometimes it isn't even a myioardial inffection at all and it's actually myocarditis or tacosubo which is a stress induced cardiammyopathy and that's why it's so important for your physician to really look into the underlying cause and try to understand what caused the damage to the mocardial infection. Well, I'm glad you mentioned spontaneous coronary artery dissection or SCAD. It's a condition that seems to affect a similar population as Monoka. Is there a link between the two? And as a cardiologist, is this event a different entity compared to one due to atherosclerosis? Oh, most definitely. SCAD is spontaneous coronary artery dissection and it's one of the most common causes of heart attacks in women under the age of 50. So it actually makes up about 35% of all heart attacks in women under the age of 50. And so if someone has a mina event, it becomes really important to look for scad. It takes a high level of suspicion to really be able to see it sometimes and it takes some training of the eye to be able to see it. So if you suspect scad, which you should if it's especially if it's a a young woman, you see tortuous coronary arteries, you know, if there's a recent pregnancy because those women are even more likely to have scad. So scad was thought to be a very rare disease. It now makes up about 1 to 4% of all acute coronary syndrome cases and as I mentioned about 35% of all MIS in women under the age of 15 and about 45% of pregnancy related MIS. SCAD is very different than your typical atheroscllerotic coronary artery disease. The people who are affected by scad look completely different than your typical MI patients. one, they usually don't have a lot of the risk factors that you have with coronary artery disease. They're not usually diabetic. They don't necessarily have high cholesterol. They're not necessarily smokers. They're actually very healthy, active young women who are having these events. And the problem with this is that because they look so different than what we typically think of when we think of a patient having a mocardial infuction that they're often overlooked. Oftentimes these women are sent home from the ER with chest pain because they don't look like a typical person with chest pain. So it's important for these women to be advocates for themselves. In terms of the underlying ideology of SCAD, I think we're kind of still beginning to understand it. The pathology is there's basically a blood pocket or a hematoma in the lining of the blood vessel that causes obstruction to the lumen preventing blood flow. Some people think that the inciting factor is a rip in the blood vessel lining itself. Others think that it's actually the blood pocket that causes the tear or the dissection flap. But they've even seen patients who have this blood pocket in the blood vessel but don't have the tear. So that's why it's unclear whether the actual underlying pathology is that hematoma or that blood pocket or if it's the underlying dissection. One other thing that I want to point out is that FMD or fibrouscular dysplasia an underlying vasculopathy is very common in these patients. And so the recommendation is that all women with a history of scad be screened for underlying arteriopathies and that includes basically a headto pelvis scan to make sure that there's no aneurysms or evidence of fibrouscular dysplasia. Dr. Sunavi, I'd like to talk about imaging now. Do you think it's important that providers have this in their mind at the kath lab or even before they enter it? and tell us a little bit about what you're doing as far as coronary angography as first-line imaging and some of the risks that come with that when you are looking for moninoa or scad. Right? So it's imperative that any patient with suspected scad or moninoa event get androgram because if you're having a moninoa event or you're having an MI you can't distinguish atheroscllerotic coronary artery disease from a mininoa event unless you do an angio. The same is true for a patient with scad. it's essential to do an angiogram because other imaging modalities such as CT coronary angiograms they're not as good in terms of diagnosing SCAD and so it's really essential that these women undergo angiogram to establish the diagnosis. It's really important to have a high index of suspicion because these aren't your typical coronary artery disease lesions and so they can be missed overlooked if you don't know what to look for. The other thing to think about is that there sometimes these women are in increased risk for catheter induced injury to the blood vessels and so I think physicians interventional cardiologists try to take a lot of care to try to prevent any kind of iatrogenic damage from the catheterss. Let's talk about treatment for a minute. So is treatment of monoka dependent upon the underlying cause which you may or may not know. Please tell the listeners what you take into mind regarding duration of hospital stay and what you determine as far as treatment options available. When we think of a mana event for a long time we just treated this as an MI but we know now that this is not always the case. If you're able to determine the cause of the mina event, then you would treat the underlying cause. But if you don't know what the underlying cause is, the treatment is actually controversial. There are very limited studies to look at the treatment options. This is in contrast to SCAD. If you determine that the SCAD is the cause of the Minoa events, the treatment is also controversial because we don't have any randomized control trials to look at. But in general, we usually treat with beta blockers and then aspirin and plavix. So dual antiplatlet therapy, although the duration of DAP or dual antiplatlet therapy is controversial. We're not sure how long people should be on it. And so there is a wide variation in practices across the country and how long people treat with DAP therapy. Statins are another area of controversy. Some people start it, but the current guidelines or recommendations say you should only start statin therapy if there is another indication. So let's say the patient does have high cholesterol or they do have significant plaque buildup in the blood vessels of their heart then you would treat with statins but don't use the scat event as an indication for the statin treatment. As we're talking about treatment what are some other supportive therapies? What do you want other providers to know about this picture? So I want to first address length of stay. So for a mina event, we usually just keep patients in the hospital maybe for a day or two days depending on the underlying cause. If the underlying cause is thought to be scad, the recommendation is usually to keep the patients in longer because there's concern that that hematoma or that blood pocket can expand and cause further obstruction that would require intervention. Because in SCAD usually we don't stent unless we absolutely have to. In terms of additional treatment options, a very very important one is cardiac rehabilitation. So I'm a strong believer in cardiac rehab and I do recommend that to all of my MI patients, including my SCAD patients. SCAD patients have to be careful because we believe that extremes of exercise or emotion can be triggers for scad. There are a good percentage of women who present after significant exertion with their first scad event. And so there is not only an underlying fear but this true risk that if they significantly exerted themselves again that could they have a recurrent event. The recommendation, this is more of an expert opinion, is that women with a history of scat should try to avoid anything extreme, extreme exercise, extreme weather when they're exercising, really hot weather or really cold weather. And there's a Borg scale of exertion, perceived exertion. So, trying to stay in really the middle portion of that scale. And like I mentioned that extreme exertion can be a trigger for SCAD. Extreme stress can also be a trigger for SCAD. So when we're looking at women and we're counseling them in clinic after their SCAD event, I always take into account what their triggering event was. Was it after pregnancy? Was it after a significant stressful event? Was it during extreme exercise? And then I counsel accordingly in order to help try to prevent a future event. Although I still recommend cardiac rehab for all these patients, but with these parameters in mind. Dr. Sangavi, tell other providers what you would like them to know about what you're doing at Penn Medicine and when they should refer patients. At Penn, we are part of the ICAD registry to help accumulate data from patients with a history of scad. It's still considered a relatively rare disease. And so the more patients we have collectively, the more information we have collectively, the more information we can glean and the better results we can glean from cumulative data. I would say that any physician who has any suspicion for a prior scad event or a mina event where they just want a little bit of help trying to tease out you know what the cause is or definitely call us or you can refer to us. This is something that we see often in our clinic and with mina patient. It's really time is important because some of the imaging studies such as cardiac MRI that we'd want to get after a moninoa event are kind of timesensitive in the sense that it requires us to get the MRI quicker in order to be able to make the underlying diagnosis. The farther out we are from the event, the more likely that we might never know what the underlying cause for the monoka event is. But we are happy to see any patient that has a history of it and if physicians have any questions about the diagnosis. Thank you so much Dr. Sunavi. What a very fascinating topic. Thank you again for joining us. And that concludes this episode from the experts at Pen Medicine. To refer your patient to a specialist at pen medicine, you can please visit our website at penmed.org/refer or you can call 877937P for more information and to get connected with one of our providers. Please remember to subscribe, rate, and review this podcast and all the other pen medicine podcasts. I'm Melanie Cole.