(upbeat music) - Hi I'm Dr. James Carey. - And I'm Dr. Kate Temme from Penn Sports Medicine. - And today we're going to clear up some common misconceptions when it comes to Sports Medicine. Our first topic, pain. Does having a high pain tolerance make you more likely to get injured? This one is a fact. (ringing bell) Pain is our body's way of telling us something is wrong. When pain tolerance is high, You might continue that painful activity when you shouldn't. Eventually making your injury worse. If your body is telling you something's wrong, listen to it. Early intervention is the best way to stop pain in its tracks, and get you back on the go. (whoosh) - Our next myth is about tennis elbow. It's a painful condition that many of us have dealt with at some point, but it only affects tennis players right? This one is fiction. (buzzer) - Believe it or not, less than five percent of people with tennis elbow actually play tennis. This condition is actually a form of tendinitis when overused tendons get injured and stop functioning optimally. Cooks, painters, butchers, gardeners, and golfers are also susceptible to tennis elbow. So whether you're serving up an ace, or just serving up dinner, if you're having elbow pain, be sure to see a doctor to keep a minor injury from becoming a major one. - [James] Our next myth is a cool one. I hear people all the time saying that ice is the best way to treat injuries, but is that a fact or is it fiction? Well, a little bit of booth. (ringing bell) (buzzer) Ice can be your best bet if your injury is new and acute, like an ankle or knee sprain, the cold ice will help keep swelling down by decreasing blood flow to the injured area. But, if you're suffering from a chronic injury like some sore muscles or arthritis, you're better off applying heat. This will help relax and loosen your muscles to ease pain. Not sure if your injury's acute or chronic? Schedule an appointment with your doctor to find out what treatment is best for you. (whoosh) - [Kate] Our next myth is about stretching. To prevent injury, the best time to stretch is before you work out. Believe it or not, this is fiction. - Stretching before your body is warmed up can cause damage to your muscles, and do more harm than good. To help prevent injury before working out, you want to focus on dynamic exercises like jumping jacks, running in place, or light jogging to help activate your muscles. When you do want to stretch is after your workout is over. This will increase circulation and allow your heart rate to slow down gradually, while limiting soreness and lowering your risk of future injury. - [James] For more information about Penn Sports Medicine, visit our website, and stay healthy out there.