When I go out and run I feel happy. I've accomplished something that's healthy, that's for me and that made me feel good. So then by the time I get to work, it's like I ran three miles this morning, what did you do? I mean I would never say that but mentally it's just kind of that badass attitude. My name is Erika Durham and with the help of Penn Bariatrics I've lost 95 pounds. Food has always been a companion. If I felt good I ate to celebrate, if I didn't feel good I ate to comfort me. I felt like it didn't judge me. So it was like my best friend and then again my worst enemy. My general lifestyle before surgery was sluggish. I stayed in bed a lot in the morning I'd wake up maybe around 12:00 eat, get ready for work, go to work and that's pretty much it. Working as a CAT scan tech,  I'm constantly walking and moving and it got to the point where by the end of my shift my legs were hurting my feet were hurting, my hips were hurting, and I just couldn't wait to go and sit down. I got to the point where I felt like living that way...was that going to be the rest of my life? There's so much out there to see and to do and I just needed the confidence to pick myself up and make myself better. Dr. Korus was the speaker there and I just felt a connection, like he was genuine. Dr. Korus: The operation in the middle is the sleeve gastrectomy He said surgery is just a tool. He was going to do his portion in the surgery, but you still needed to do your part. Right from that moment I just felt like I trusted him. It was a team, like , we had to do for each other. I liked that. So going into surgery, I kind of felt like let's just get this over with! You know, I've done all this work, I'm ready. I wanted to start losing weight and go on to the next phase. After surgery, my main goal was just to feel better, to be healthier. Actually that day that I went home I took a walk. Then after that, every morning I woke up and I said alright, I gotta do my half an hour. So, I said alright you hit that half an hour mark... now just try and walk a mile. Then I started doing that mile a little faster. The next thing I know I was kind of running. Then I changed the mile to two miles, then I started running a little bit faster. As I started making those little milestones I started to feel better. I really felt like I was accomplishing something and I was actually making these goals. Before, my first thought was always I'm the heaviest person in the room. As I started feeling better now really didn't care what anybody thought. I know where I had come from, where I was now and that I was only going to do better. Here goes nothing! I never would've pictured myself being out there doing anything physical and I realized how many years I have missed not being outside and being with life and enjoying life. After every race, I always text my Penn Medicine team. Their responses are always so helpful and cheerful and like, oh we're so glad you're doing so well Without them, I would not have gotten to where I am now. I don't feel that burden of being overweight. I can't believe that I'm this small now. I really like when it's a nice day and just being outside and feeling the sun. Before, I felt like I was locked in a box Now I'm out in the open, and just feeling freer.