My name is Steven Zabielski. I've had Parkinson's since about 2005. I remember it well. My um right arm kind of went numb and uh my right hand lost dexterity. My shoulder started hurting. I was out for a run. My right shoulder would cramp up and that's when I knew something was potentially wrong and went to see my um general practitioner at that time and he had pretty astutely diagnosed it as Parkinson's. And again, that was about um 10 years ago. And at that time I was only in my mid30s. So I was still full of like energy and vigor and everything was still like on an upward trajectory. So at that point I kind of just had this blind hope that everything would be fine. But then of course you know things started to go downhill after that. I started to um lose um like fluidity in my gate. My speech started to um kind of get um very slight. My voice would tremble. I would get more of what's called Bradyia, slow slowness of movement. I would just slow down at certain times of the day, fatigue. I mean, fatigue was terrible at that point. I would have to lie down for like hours in the middle of the day just to, you know, get my energy back. But at that point, I just had to, you know, take further steps and I got serious about managing the um the symptoms. I didn't really know too much about it until I went to a neurologist and um that neurologist happened to recommend Dr. Balduk for the surgery. He was not only clinically um probably like on paper the best at what he was doing. We also had a good rapport. He was a natural naturally good person to talk to and he just didn't care from a clinical standpoint. who cared for me. Um more of a um I don't know like there was a comp there was like a well of compassion I guess I'll I'll say that welled up in him and um that um was very important for me in making that decision to come to him for the surgery. I had never had surgery before in my life. So to go into brain surgery was um it was a it was a harrowing experience no doubt um to be sure. And of course, when I came out of the surgery, there's um what's called I guess they refer to as the honeymoon period where you I guess your brain swells and things feel great. I was able to eat again. I was able to sleep again. Um and they were just two things that really um stuck with me. I mean, just the ability to eat and sleep again, which if you can't do either one of those things on a regular basis, the rest of your life is going to be pretty crappy. I mean, there are still I mean, days that I'm not good. in fact every day. I mean, there's still certain down times, but what this does is kind of smooth that out a little bit. It gets you to the point where um you could at least function and you can function um more normally. I mean, you can't I mean, I'm nowhere near what I was five or 10 years ago or even 5 years ago, but at this point, I'm able to function at least at a basic level. From an insurance standpoint, University of Pennsylvania, Dr. both same. He um they facilitated the insurance um approval process um in a way that I mean I couldn't as the patient cuz I I had gotten the rejection letter in the mail like what's going on here? The surgery is scheduled for about a week. But at that point they worked very well with the insurance company. It was getting kind of close to the um scheduled date of the operation and Penn and Dr. Buck were critical in getting that um final decision made and getting the insurance company to approve this. Overall, there's just a comfort level coming here and dealing with um um Hanan with Bernardet again with the staff, Dr. Boluk staff. They really do seem to, you know, to really care about what they're doing and that shows in the way they take care of their day-to-day um activities. I would say anybody in a similar situation, if you're looking um for, I guess, an out or some hope um then um you have to come here and see Dr. Buck. You have to at least call the staff at Penn. um and arrange a consultation because if you're where I was, that might be your only hope at this point for um you know, if not to get better, at least to you know, not get worse.