- I cried. Cried to the hospital. Cried 'til I got to the hospital because I'm like, what would I do without my father. I received a phone call from my mother stating that my father was in a car accident. - I know I felt a hit... and I tried to catch myself, tried to catch myself. This side here is not moving. I know it's not moving. My whole side is feel kind of, numb. Wasn't moving. You know, I feel my mouth is kind of, funny, but I still can't tell you what it is because it never happened to me before. I hear a knock on the door, bump, bump, bump, and I look like this, and I look and see is a cop on the side of my truck. Michael: Her recognition of the fact that he was having a stroke was critical. When someone has an ischemic stroke where there's a blocked artery in the brain, brain cells are dying every minute, and it's been estimated that almost 2 million neurons are dying every minute when someone has a stroke. So the fact that she saw it quickly and said I know what this is and we need to get him to the right place was really, really important. - It was a sad day. I didn't want to lose my father. I was so scared. I never had something like that impact anyone so close to me and my family. Michael: Based on his imaging and based on his examination, we knew that he had a very large clot. So the blockage was in a major artery affecting really half of the brain on the right side. Very severe symptoms. And so, we were able to then make the decision that tPA wasn't enough, that we had to proceed with thinking about mechanical thrombectomy or trying to actually go in there and take out the clot. - My hope was to open the blood vessel. So the way we do this kind of procedure is we gain access through a blood vessel in the leg and we put catheters all the way from the leg vessel up into the brain. We can see where the blood clot is and we deploy a device called a stent retriever and with another suction device, we were able to open the vessels and remove the blood clot. - It was A-50/50 chance. The doctor said, you know, anything can happen. So we all sat in the waiting area. More family came, and we all were just waiting and waiting and then the doctor came out and he said the procedure went well. - When the doctor said he got everything, he said, you were a lucky guy. I said I'm not lucky, I'm blessed. Michael: Thankfully, and this is really related to the therapy that he received, both the tPA and the thrombectomy procedure, he's made really, what I think is a remarkable recovery. He's able to be back home. He's independent in terms of caring for himself. He's, a part of-- you know, returned to his family, and he really has been able to resume the life that he was living before the stroke. He obviously had a big family around him to support him and help him through his recovery, but also, you know, I think it makes his recovery all the more important, right, because he's able to resume his place in the family, right, and it was really an important place in the family. And so, seeing him do well and kind of, you know, be back a part of that is really a wonderful thing.