Welcome everyone to the Penn Primary Care podcast. I'm your host Dr. Kendall Williams. So, as I mentioned at the end of our last podcast, we're going to space things out a little bit over the summer because of everyone's schedule. But there's one topic I really wanted to get to over the summer, and that is some of the summer illnesses, particularly infectious diseases that we see that are more specific to the months of June through September or so. And so we're going to do that today with a particular focus on Lyme disease. And to do that, I invited two colleagues from the division of infectious diseases to join us. Dr. Anne Norris has not been here before. She is an associate professor of clinical medicine with a focus on tickornne illness. When I reached out to colleagues in the ID division about who sort of your expert on tickornne illness, they all said Dr. Norris. So, and thanks for coming to the podcast. And I also have the pleasure of having back Dr. Kathleen Degen who was here earlier to talk with us about COVID. She's an assistant professor of clinical medicine and the associate director of antimicrobial stewardship at hub. Hi, Kathleen. Hi, Kendall. Thanks so much for having me. So, I'm going to actually start with just a a general question because, you know, I we talk about summer fever and I like this term because, you know, we have a lot of these viral illnesses that we see in the winter and spring and then in the summer we we supposed to be relatively free of them at least before COVID and all that, but and then sometimes patients do come in with a fever out of the blue that makes us think and that's often sort of the bucket in which we would put Lyme disease. So Ann, let me just start with you and sort of when do you start thinking about Lyme disease? Yeah. So what makes summer fever unique in my mind is a patient who has had more than a a day or two of fever and and it's undifferentiated. They are they have a fever, malaise, headache, but no organ is complaining. They don't have a UTI or a URI and we're just not sure what's going on. We in the ID community like to call this doxycyc deficiency syndrome because so often these patients turn out to have a tickborn disease that is treatable with doxycyc. There are of course other causes viral entities that cause fever as well. So let's jump into lime. Kathleen, let's talk about lime generally first. Uh ticks and all that and how we get lime and where's it come from. Sure. Yeah. So I think of Lyme disease as a very common entity in certain parts of the country depending on somebody's exposure. So we know that Lyme disease is carried by a particular tick something called the blacklegged tick or exodious scapularis which is present in a lot of the eastern US but particularly in the northeast and upper Midwest. And so, you know, people going out of their homes into areas with grasses, tall grasses, brush, can come across these ticks that are often just hanging out at the end of grasses and leaves ready to hop on to any passers by. And so, you know, that's really the risk is people being outdoors in these warmer months in areas where there are these particular ticks that can carry Lyme disease or borellia or border. And then we also do some sometimes see in people who have not had a ton of outdoor exposures but who have pets who have outdoor exposures and then bring them into the home and they jump onto the the humans. You know, with the weather becoming warmer in the winter in this area, I'm wondering if we're starting to see lime a little bit more in an extended season or in the winter. I know there's ticks throughout the throughout the year now. I know this from having dogs and doing a lot of walking in the woods myself. Has has that been something that's been in the discussion? Yeah, I'd say we've definitely been seeing that. We had a discussion amongst our group. We've been seeing tickborne illnesses more commonly than we have in the past because of global warming in these like colder traditionally colder months. I saw a case of anoplasmosis that somebody acquired right at the end of November, early December this past year. So it's definitely been an issue with the the like global warming phenomenon that we're seeing these tickborn illnesses more year round now. So for as a in a primary care community probably the most common presentation of Lyme disease is going to be somebody that comes in with a a rash and maybe maybe some symptoms beyond that but just the rash. Any pearls an in terms of how should how we should think about this really early stage of lime? Yeah, you know, there's this common impression that Lyme disease can do just about anything. And even though there are case reports of very unusual manifestations of lime, it's not syphilis. It's not the great pretender, it really has a fairly typical presentation and set of manifestations, and it's usually not the explanation for the non-specific complaints of fatigue, diffuse pain, brain fog, stuff like that. You're right, Kendall. E- migraines. The rash of Lyme disease is the most common manifestation of Lyme disease. So, you know, EM is characteristically a slowly enlarging red patch. This is not a a quarter size red mark on your skin. These things on average get to be at least 8 in in diameter over the course of a couple of days. It can have a central clearing. That's the bullseye effect, but it can just be a solid patch. It can have bruising. It can look kind of blue. 5% of EM rashes have a blistering effect. It shouldn't be confused with hyper sensitivity from the insect attachment. You know, if you see the tick on the skin and a big red patch around it, that's not e- migraine. It's too soon for it to be e- migraines. You don't see the rash of Lyme disease until at least a couple days after the tick has fallen off. About 70% of people do have this EM rash and about half of people also have the non-specific fever, headache, chills, feel lousy. And the rash doesn't always look like the target lesion that we're expecting, right? It can be confusing. It can, you know, it can look like cellulitis at first. It can look like poison ivy. It can sometimes people confuse it with ringworm you know except ringorm because it has that big circle multiple big circles but ringorm you know lasts for months em lasts for maybe 7 to 10 days it can look like urtdicaria you know all those irregular patches on the skin but again urtdicaria is eancent you know present for less than a day em lasts over days so you're also as you said a fair percentage of patients are also going to have some associated symptoms but Let's go past the phase where they have the rash. Let's say it's not recognized or not and not treated. What happens then? Yeah, this happens a lot. I think patients can develop early disseminated Lyme disease and this is much more dramatic. These are the people that come in with the multiple EM lesions. You know, they look like a leopard. This is also when we see the cranial nerve pauses in particular. You know, Lyme disease in the summer is certainly the most common cause of an isolated seventh cranial nerve pausy and is definitely the most common cause of bilateral seventh nerve pauses, but can also cause other cranial nerves to paralyzed. I've seen people with sixth nerve pausy, people that couldn't swallow, people that had eighth eighth nerve manifestations. So, it loves cranial nerves, but it can also affect other nerve roots. And so people can come in with other kinds of ridicular symptoms. This is also the stage where we see lympositic menitis. And the one manifestation of Lyme disease that really actually can be fatal which is cardiac Lyme disease. There have been something like 11 deaths in the United States from from myocarditis and pericarditis from Lyme disease. These present sort of weeks to a month or two after early infection. So most of that stuff we see in the late summer and early fall and and these people are not feeling that ill at that stage right they're not having summer fever right when they present with Bell's palsy they can I mean if they have lympositic menitis they're they're sick as stink but you're right they can just come they can just start having heart blocks they can just come in with a complete heart block and be perfectly well or they can have a seventh pausy and nothing else of course you're going to ask them did did you have a a bullseye wrap last month. But sometimes they have no recollection of anything like that and they're otherwise well and they may not have had associated symptoms with their early very early phase disease that you described like the fatigue or feeling unexplained fever, right? They may not have that. Often they don't. Usually they don't. Yeah. So if you get past that stage or maybe you have no manifestations of that stage, right? Then you can get into the later stages without it being detected at all. And what are those like? Right. So, so there really two big categories here. The the majority of late Lyme disease is Lyme arthritis. And this is a very characteristic syndrome. It's it is uh large joint eusions, one joint at a time, typically the knee that la just spontaneously appears. So you go to sleep with a normal knee and you wake up with a cantaloupe where your knee used to be and it lasts for a couple of weeks and then it kind of goes away. It's not highly inflammatory. This does not look like rheumatoid arthritis. It's not symmetric. You don't have an elevated set rate. It doesn't involve the small joints, but people typically have relapses. Maybe they come in with a a big swollen elbow the next time or the other knee blew up. And this can go on literally for years. The other organ that manifests late Lyme disease is neurologic. We you can see a distal symmetric peripheral neuropathy that looks a lot like diabetes with numbness and tingling in a hand in a stocking glove distribution. There are very characteristic EMG and nerve conduction study findings and and there's also you know you can have a monoritis multiplex where various peripheral nerves are getting picked off at different times. So if somebody has sort of the one of the large joint eusions that come and go you know I think of crystallin disease you know as being the The only other thing really specific thing that will do that. So now I know that if I think of gout, I should probably be especially if the uh tap is negative, I should be thinking about lime. Well, if you're doing a tap, send pheninovial fluid for lime PCR, if you've thought of lime because if the patient has not had antibiotics, it's a very good test. It's at least 80% of the time positive and you, you know, secured the diagnosis. Yeah. So, we're going to and and we should talk about testing in a in a few minutes. So, you know, my main thing is especially in primary care, I I suppose, you know, when I'm doing hospital-based care as well, I just don't want to miss it, right? So, and I think that's always the I I probably I'm I'm almost certain I probably miss one of these because I I I have not diagnosed lime that often. So, just by the probabilities, I'm probably missing some. Right. So, I think that you don't even get a diagnosis that much. you know, it's only the carditis that makes it into the hospital and maybe the menitis. The, you know, there's 9,000 cases of Lyme disease in 2019 and the majority of them were e- migrants. And you had shared with me that you see a lot of lime and so can you kind of characterize your patient population? You're obviously probably getting a referral population, but you know, what are some of the experiences that people ever have? I think this is going to be sort of practical for us primary care physicians so we don't miss anything other than what we've already talked about but some of the things that your patients have experienced. I see I see a a lot of patients referred for either referred by providers or referred themselves for consideration of Lyme disease. You know 100 a year easily and twothirds of those patients have never met Burilia Bergdorfrey in their life. They either had a false positive Lime antibbody test or they looked up Lyme disease on the internet and it it seemed to match their symptoms. You know lime does the things that we just described. uh you know diagnosing Lyme disease there's an algorithm for it. The Lyme antibbody testing is actually pretty helpful and so the fun of Lyme disease is that third of patients who really do have either late Lyme disease or some complication from Lyme disease that that makes the Lyme conversation so interesting. Let's talk about diagnosing it. You mentioned if you have a joint eusion to send PCR but that's not how most of us are approaching it. The first thing we're going to do is send lime antibodies, right? Look for lime look for a lime antibodies. I I would hope that most Lyme disease in the United States is getting diagnosed clinically. CDC expressly recommends against sending a line antibbody when you're seeing a patient with what you think is aythemma migraines. More than half, 60% at least of patients with early Lyme disease have a negative line of antibbody. And that can be really confusing. that can, you know, that false negativity can put you off the hunt. And even if the lime antibbody test is positive, it doesn't prove that the current problem is related to Lyme disease because people can keep a positive lime antibbody literally for years, decades after they've been cured of Lyme disease. So if you're seeing someone with that big red patch and maybe some flu-l like symptoms, start your doxycyc and don't send a lime antibbody. If you're seeing somebody with unexplained fever, it's definitely reasonable to send a lime antibbody. A positive IGM would be helpful for sure, but be prepared for a negative lime antibbody test and the patient still has Lyme disease. What's the delay? And between, you know, infection, it can take a month, a month. So, it's 30 days before the Lyme IGG will be positive. patients that come in with the later manifestations. If you have someone that has their fir, you know, has new cranial nerve pausy, new heart block, a new large joint eusion, approaching 100% of those patients will have a strongly positive lime antibbody test. So the test is super helpful in late later stage disease. It's just not helpful for the early patients. So we should have treated them by the time you know based on their clinical manifestations. if somebody comes in with bilateral bells pausy for instance you know that in the summer that you know you should probably treat them and then send off the studies. So and there are false positives as well or or people who have previously had Lyme disease been treated are still positive and now presenting with new symptoms that may be lime. So you have those two scenarios, right? Yes, there are a lot of there the IGM test in particular is commonly falsely positive and we're moving away from even doing IGM testing because of that. The screening test can also be falsely positive. Those low-level positive ELISA tests can also be falsely positive which is why CD so strongly endorses you know a confirmatory test a two-tier strategy. So there are both false positive and false negative tests with Lyme disease. have to know when to apply the testing strategy. So Ann and at our lab at Penn Lab or even maybe Quest or Labcore when we send off for lime antibbody are they doing the two-stage testing without even us ordering it? Yeah. So they they are they should be they should any good lab will be will do that. Pen lab definitely does that. And the algorithm did change recently. CDC made way for the use of alternative antibbody tests rather than a western blot as the sec or confirmatory test which is really a welcome change. It can be run simultaneously so it comes back sooner or in sequence waiting for the screen to be positive. The second test is faster, cheaper, and far less confusing than the western blot test because it's a yes or a no. And if it's a no, they don't have Lyme disease or the test is negative. And if it's yes, then your test has been confirmed as positive. It takes a little time to get used to it because everybody's used to seeing the western blot. And that's what I was going to say. And I've definitely had patients come in with like a report out of their western blot that was just sent by people erroneously like not even doing the initial positive ELISA. And I think that's very confusing to patients and to providers who aren't used to looking at lime testing to see this western blot with a like a couple antibodies being positive, but they never had the initial screen. Yeah, I always say CDC again recommends against that strategy. Don't send the Cadillac test because you just want to get the answer faster without doing the screening test. I would say that you know you want to confirm that you actually have antibbody that might be Lyme disease antibbody a substantial amount of that before you characterize the shape and size of those antibodies by doing the western blot there's such a high risk of false positivity and a couple of bands here and there and patients are very uncomfortable with a couple of bands what does that mean does that mean I have a little bit of Lyme disease and and it does not there's a lot of cross reactivity with other organisms so as in all things I think same with rheumatological tests. Don't send it unless you're you have a real clear question that you're seeking to answer. That is so true. So, let's talk about treatment. You know, folks that are early on can be treated with doxycyc for 10 days or so. Usually PO is that how you do it? Yeah. So, the lime treatment has gotten simpler with the accumulation of good comparative data. Over time, the recommendations have moved toward shorter courses and largely oral regimens. So instead of the 14 to 21 days that we all were accustomed to, the lime guideline published in 2019 endorses just 10 days of doxycyc or 14 days of emoxicylin or sephuroxines for early Lyme disease. And then for the early disseminated Lyme disease, you can also use oral therapy. There are a number of studies in Europe comparing sept trioxone and doxycycan for neurologic Lyme disease that have been shown to be equivalent with no difference in outcomes and obviously fewer side effects. A lot of times patients with what we think might be bacterial menitis or complete heart block get admitted to the hospital and started on sept trioxone because you know we're worried and when we want to cover broadly and that's totally reasonable but once you've secured your diagnosis you can switch to doxycyc for those patients. So there's very few circumstances in which somebody's going home with a pickline being treated for Lyme disease. I've had patients come in to see me who have had pick lines and I always think, hm, you know, that's that's probably something that was being treated inappropriately. Yeah. Okay. I see a lot of that. I guess you do. Well, you know, we kind of all do. IG docs really see a lot of that. Yeah, we'll get to that in hopefully we'll get to that later. But I I wanted to talk about the other bacteria and other diseases that are associated with the tick bite that can be just as bad that can co-infect if not worse than Lyme disease itself. So you know we know of three of them or I know of three of them anoplasmosis or lechiosis and bzziosis all of which seem to be more common. Kathleen you said you saw a patient with anoplasmosis. How do you how do you know somebody has anoplasmosis or why do you think about it? What leads you to think about it in a in any patient, one that has Lyme disease or not? Yeah, it's a great question, Kendall. And I do more inpatient medicine and so I see definitely less lime and have seen occasional cases, although they're not common by any means, but we see occasional cases each year of anoplasmosis less commonly or lickia in this area. Although I know there was a recent case that we saw and then beziosis and I think in general how I think about it is similar to what Ann said where you have a patient with a febriel illness and not having like another organ system complaint you've sort of like taken off your list of your differential sort of symptoms of UTI, pneumonia, cellulitis, things like that. So somebody coming in with a febal illness who potentially has epidemiologic exposures like they're active outdoors in an area where you can get one of these diseases commonly in the spring or summer although as we said sort of we're seeing creep into occasionally even the winter months with global warming and then no other clear alternative explanation for the fever and then some lab abnormalities can also really make you think more about these. So with anoplasma and ericchia commonly you'll see lucopenia and thrombocytoenia and then with besia you'll see or you should see some component of anemia and some component of homoleysis it causes a hemolytic anemia. So I think of it in patients coming in with a fever, potential tick exposure from outdoor activity without another clear explanation and then with consistent labs like cytoenas and then you can get some mild elevations in in liver transaminasis. I know that lime can affect the liver and can cause some LFT abnormalities but mostly when I think about LFT abnormalities I think about anoplasma. Is that how you think about it as well? I haven't seen usually too much LFT elevation in lime and but you can certainly see it with anoplasma or liqueia and even with besia. Yeah, you you actually Kendall, you're right. You if you see a trans amaminitis in a patient with Lyme disease, that's not unusual and that doesn't make me think about these other organisms. I think about anoplasma or lichobesia. When people remain sick two days into their doxycyc, they're still having a fever. They're extra sick. they just are more sick than your average line bear, if you will, or if they have the CBC abnormalities that Kathleen mentioned, because these are intracellular pathogens that either, you know, attack plot and white cells or attack your red cells. How do you diagnose them? Yeah. So, in terms of diagnosis, you could even see them on a blood smear. So anoplasma you can see in neutrfils or liia you can see the morellet in monocytes and then besia is primarily diagnosed with blood smears. So you'll see them inside of red blood cells and so we recommend that people send a blood parasite smear. Definitely the the easiest thing to see would be besia just because the blood parasite smears focus on the red blood cells. And with the like fewer neutrfils and monocytes that you would see on those smears, you might miss anoplasma or lichia. So I also usually in addition to sending a a blood parasite smear would send PCR testing from the blood for anoplasma and lichia. You can send also for a PCR testing for bzzia and I I send that as well. But if you have a good microbiologist and parasytologist, you should be able to see besia on a blood smear. And it's really the same test that you're doing to check if you're concerned about malaria, right? Besiosis. Yes. Yeah, definitely. You're totally correct, Kendall. You like it's the same thing that you would order. So, I think that's one common mistake I sometimes see see in the hospital is people ordering just for like a peripheral blood smear, which will be made in the lab and then somebody has to come take a look at it. And that's what often the hematologists are looking at, but you really want to order for blood parasite smear. And that's where they'll they'll do the thick and thin smear and look for intraariththroitic parasites. And some people will say or or joke that the only way you can really differentiate between besia and malaria is by taking a travel history. And so if somebody hasn't left the US and you're seeing intraear blood parasites, that should be besia. Yeah. there. I saw a patient who with was an FUO that was transferred down to Presbyterian where I was working at the time from New Jersey and that ended up being the diagnosis was besiosis and it's just not something we see every day but I I think that since that and that might have been five or 10 years ago you know seeing it more commonly do you see it more commonly than you used to an do you see it more commonly it's it used to be something that we only saw like in the New England states Martha's Vineyard up there then we started seeing it in New Jersey and seeing it in Pennsylvania that, you know, there were six cases of besiosis in Pennsylvania in 2010 and there were 68 cases in 2019. So, it's not a ton compared to Lyme disease, but but we're definitely, you know, it's not the exceptional event anymore. Yeah, I I've heard cases from time to time. It's been it's a thing. So, it's a thing to look out for. So as an said, you can see co- infections because it's the same ticks that ly and and anoplasma that transmit buzzia. And so as an said, if you're seeing somebody who's not improving with doxycyc since it's a a different treatment, definitely think about bzzia. So before we leave tickborn illness, I just want to kind of give you an opportunity to, you know, tell us some pearls or mistakes you see primary care physicians make that we can avoid. And I mean, you're getting you have this large referral population. Is there anything in addition to what you've said that you want to tell us? Sure. I have AI have a couple thoughts. One, we already said don't send a lime antibbody test unless you have a a true reasonable suspicion for Lyme disease, not just someone who's achy, tired, and can't think right. There are five large placeboc controlled randomized studies showing that treatment for Lyme disease beyond the recommended CDC regimens confers no benefit to patients with Lyme disease. So the people that got the real introvenous antibiotics versus the sterile saline or the real doxycyc or other antibiotics instead of the pink pills in the long run felt no better. So people often can feel yucky after Lyme disease. It's it it can be a very acutely disabling illness and I am holding hands with a couple of people every fall encouraging them that they are going to get all the way better but that more antibiotics are not going to make that happen faster. I'd also just be careful with the lime testing that's available. There are a lot of marketed tests out there that have really lousy performance characteristics and don't really correlate with the presence or absence of infection. So, you know, there are very few times when you should do a PCR test and it's really just restricted to sinovial fluid. And, you know, blood cultures for Lyme disease are not a thing yet. They're they're not FDA approved. They haven't been proven to be useful. Stick with the lime corology. So, you know, we we're going to do another podcast in the future on sort of the after effects of infectious disease because I think there is a seems to be some form of pathway that either COVID or EBV or lime leads people to feel lousy for the longer term and we need to talk about that. But there doesn't seem to be any as you're saying to justify the idea of chronic Lyme infection, right? Well, yeah. In fact, the the words chronic Lyme infection send chills down my spine. There are late Lyme disease manifestations that are a consequence of true infection and we talked about them. There is probably a syndrome of post treatment Lyme disease illness where patients have persistent symptoms after recovery from Lyme disease. There's a guy at Hopkins that has been studying this a lot, John Alcott, and has shown that at the end of a year, those patients are no more ill than the general population, keeping in mind that 10 to 15% of the general population feels unwell in the ways that I've described. So the other thing to talk about I think during the summer are the entro viruses because you know we have this transition that occurs from sort of the flu and URI type viruses. I suppose the URI type viruses continue through the summer, but there's definitely a transition into what I would think of as sort of the ental viral phase where you have very specific viruses causing very specific illnesses, almost all of which occurred in the summer and early fall. So Ann, let's talk a little bit about the enroiruses. What are some of the the pointers that you want to talk about relative to, you know, Coxaki virus, echo virus, and so forth? In the winter, you're right, Kendall, we have these circulating respiratory viruses that everybody knows about. They come back in your respiratory panel and for unclear reasons in the summer, these make way for the emergence of the entroviral infections, which really are occurring year round, but in temperate climates occur more commonly in the summer and fall. Most entroviral infections actually are completely asymptomatic again result only in an undifferentiated febal illness. They are a common cause of the common cold in the summer more common than rhino virus for instance and you know have a little bit more of a GI component than than the rhino viruses corona viruses do but entroviruses are also the major cause of virmenitis in the summer in fact when you're seeing someone with what we used to call aseptic menitis in the summer entrovirus should be very high on your list of course just plugging Lyme disease. If there's a cranial nerve pausy or a ridiculitis or a history of a rash, think of Lyme disease in that situation. There are you know other entrovirus strains that are responsible for instance for hand foot and mouth disease kaksaki fluorosy paricarditis and you know there is this emergence of this acute flaccid myelitis in children who've had entroviruses different strains of entroviruses that you know is under intense study right now not tons of cases but something that is emerging that was kind of lame learning about invir viruses was really helpful because they have distinct syndromes particularly the aseptic menitis. I remember seeing a statistic as a resident that I don't know it was like 90% of aseptic menitis. What we we used to call aseptic menitis is due to eneroviruses and 90% of that occurred during the summer and fall. So it was basically you know a June through September phenomenon was to see a viral menitis. Yeah. And to discharge them from the emergency room someone with menitis you know it took a while to get comfortable doing that. Yeah. So, Kathleen, I'm going to throw this next subject to you, but I before I want to do this, I want to set it up. So, you know, few years ago, we moved into this house and it had a pool, but it had a surface problem. There's a lot of cracks in it, and my kids were really small, so we decided to just leave it covered. So, for two or three years, we left left it covered. And then I was I was made aware of the risk of mosquitoes and began to recognize that I had this huge vat of water in my backyard that was probably a mosquito breeding gown for the whole neighborhood which is what led me accelerate my plans to get it opened. But one of the things that was keeping me up at night was West Nile virus and we're seeing more of that now and it's mosquitoborn and so forth. What can you tell us about that and how worried should we be about it? Yeah, it's a a great question. I mean it's interesting. We just got a email maybe last week for like a health advisory from the state that Pennsylvania is seeing its first Westnau virus positive mosquito pools and saw them in the counties of Montgomery, Philadelphia, Bucks, and Cumberland. And so it's definitely started off the season started off and it's something to certainly be aware of and definitely a motivator for me to wear deep and mosquito repellent when going out when there's a lot of mosquitoes in the evenings. I think as you said, Kendall, like it's important for people to try to like clear standing water off of their property and just be more cognizant of mosquitoes when they're outdoors because of the the risk of West Nile virus. And we we see a few cases each year in the hospital and they can be quite serious if people develop the the neuroinvasive disease. Not everyone fortunately will develop that but you know people can develop the abrupt fevers, headaches, myalgasalgas things like that and a lot of those people also get rashes and then a smaller percentage of people will go on to the neuroinvasive disease which is the really feared complication of West Nile virus. So is a a mining and sephilitis is that a good way to describe it or is it more than that? No it is a mining encphilitis. I think there are people that can have like a pure menitis. Reportedly that happens more often in children than the encphilitis is more common in older the older age group and people can get all sorts of neurologic manifestations things like flaccid paralysis and definitely some like gate abnormalities and it can be like you know mild self-limited but some people can develop with significant encphylopathy coma and unfortunately even death. So it can be quite severe and more severe and it's like typically like the elderly and imunocmpromised populations. Yeah. So I I guess it was a good idea for me to get my pool. Now it's a lovely salt pool and there are no mosquitoes and I've noticed a big difference and I hope I thankfully I didn't hear of any cases of West Nile virus among my neighbors. So got through that period but it was was risky. So but you know before we close out are there any other summer fevers we should worry about that we haven't talked about? You'd have to consider, I don't know if you've ever heard of this, COVID. You definitely, we definitely have to keep that on our radar and not get distracted by all these potentially more interesting diseases. I, you know, I always look for the complaining organ. You know, there's nothing specific about summer with complaining organs other than people are outside and so, you know, they're more prone to cellulitis and skin injury and and the arbo virus infections and tickborn virus infections that we've talked about. I had a patient earlier this week that came in was multiple COVID negative but had URI symptoms and a diarrheal syndrome. And now now that you mentioned it and I I think that he probably had a has an enerovirus that would be a reasonable next option. I I love these PCR tests where you get multiple I mean they're just like magic. I mean it's just unbelievable to be able to identify a specific virus. It's something we've never had before. I'm sure you as infectious disease physicians love it as much as I do. Kathleen, do you love it sometimes? No, it is very cool. We're beginning to at least be able to distinguish different types of manifestations of specific viruses, whereas before we would group them globally. And I I find that interesting. I think the most interesting thing is the number of times that the only thing we isolate is rhino virus and people are really sick. You know, it turns out that that common cold virus doesn't just it's not just serious because it makes your asthma worse. It and and you miss work. It can really make people sick. I have found a newfound respect for meumo virus really causes I've seen a couple of quite ill people with that. Well, Kathleen and Anne, thank you so much for joining us on the Pen Primary Care podcast. This is very topical. We're I I mean, I'm getting calls every day about these types of issues. So, I I I hope it was as helpful for the Penn Primary Care community as it was for me. And we're going to have you back later to talk about more infectious things when the season demands. Thank you all. Please join us again next time. Please note that this podcast is for educational purposes only. For specific questions, please contact your physician. And if an emergency, please call 911 or go to the nearest emergency