Welcome to the podcast series from the specialists at Pen Medicine. I'm Melanie Cole and today our discussion focuses on pulseed field ablation or PFA. Joining me is Dr. Matthew Bernaby. He's an electrphysiologist and the section chief of electrophysiology and pacing at Penn Medicine Lancaster General Hospital. Dr. Bernaby, thank you so much for being with us today. And before we discuss our topic, give us a brief overview of the mechanisms of AIB itself. And do we fully understand the origin? Melie, it's a pleasure to be with you and it is an important and ever evolving question. Candidly, I think we're all still a little bit humbled every day by how much we still have to learn about atrial fibrillation. But that being said, we are certainly light years ahead of where we used to be. And it's a story that's actually evolved over a very long period of time, almost at least 70 plus years. a physician named Gordon Mo back in the 50s and 60s really started to get his arms around this. He was in upstate New York and started describing what at the time was called a multiple wavelength theory which was basically depending upon a form of re-entry where the electricity kind of gets caught in a loop in a left atrium. And then this advanced at Washington University in the 70s and 80s and early 90s with a guy named James Cox who was a CT surgeon who figured out that by incizing the left atrium and then sewing it back together, you could disrupt atrial fibrillation. But the most pertinent revelation came in the seminal work of two French electrophysiologists Michelle Esther and Pierre Ja who in 1998 published in the land journal their findings that atrial fibrillation basically emanated from muscular sleeves around the pulmonary veins and these pulmonary veins feed back into the left atrium. If targeted for ablation, we often use the term pulmonary vein isolation as a cornerstone of our aphib ablation strategy. we can definitely impact AIB overall and that was really speaking to the triggers or drivers of atrial fibrillation the initiating source which our French colleagues felt was greater than 90% of the explanation for what triggered or got aphib going but it's really been in the subsequent years in the early 2000s where we really started to come to understand that the substrate is very important in the perpetuation and maintenance of a fit hearking back to what they figured out in the ' 50s and60s So we often talk about paroxismal atrial fibrillation or it's primarily triggered by these pulmonary veins firing predominantly. One of the most salient aspects of aphib is that it is so heterogeneous. It's so different in everybody even at a cellular level. A famous saying that you may have heard is aib begets a. And that idea started circling in the early 2000s when we realized that the more aphib you have the more structural changes occur in the mantrum of the atrium. often fibrosis among other things that then supports and perpetuates aphib moving forward to the point where it tends to become more persistent and if left unchecked eventually chronic or permanent. So looking across the many decades, yes, a pulmonary veins are often implicated as the source or origin of AIB. But that said, there's multiple other elements to this and that's where ablation has really pivoted over many years now to allow some flexibility in targeting not just the pulmonary veins, but potentially any other areas in the left atrium as commonly that may also benefit from targeted ablation. Well, thank you for that, Dr. Bernaby. And it is such a prevalent condition. Tell us a little bit about pulseed field ablation or PFA. How does it work and how is it different from what we've known as traditional radio frequency ablation and cryotherapy which have been standards of care in the last bunch of years. So you were indeed right on the money. Radio frequency ablation really has been a mainstay for decades. Cryotherapy or cryob balloon had some momentum several years ago because it allowed us to be a little faster and to cover a larger swath of atrium with less applications and less point by-point ablation which is the hallmark of of radio frequency ablation. But I think most of us agree that radio frequency had iterative evolutionary changes and improvements but really never seemed to move the needle as far as allowing us to cover a lot more land in a shorter period of time. And so one of the biggest changes here has been in the efficiency afforded by PFA. The data suggests that pulse field ablation does not rely on thermal injury like radio frequency or cryotherapy. But when we're doing an ablation, we're trying to achieve transurality, which means a lesion through the entirety of that wall. When you're using heat, it's a delicate balancing act, right? Because if you don't use enough heat, you're not getting enough damage through the the muscle. If you use too much, you put other structures at risk, whether it's behind or adjacent to what you're ablating. So radio frequency has always had somewhat of a limitation because of that biohysical attribute. Same with cryotherapy. Pulse field ablation is basically using an electrical field to denude and compromise the cell membrane. And its most interesting attribute is that it tends to be cardio selective. So it's really only affecting cells in the mioardium as opposed to nerves for example or the esophagus atrial esophageal ficial is one of the most feared complications of radio frequency ablation and even with cryobablation. So it has proven to be in short safer and that has allowed us I think a lot more confidence in applying pulse field ablation with greater effect. safety first and foremost has improved and that's been a big sea change I think for us and I think probably why PFA is garnering a lot of attention. So would you say that that's what appeals most about PFA to electrphysiologists that it's more comprehensive in its effects and speak a little bit about patients and the unique benefits for them versus the traditional modalities. So it's a great question. When you look at the patient population, the evolutionary changes in ablation technology have come with data suggesting mortality benefit like the castle htx trial recently or east afnet endpoints suggesting that we probably should be even more aggressive in more patients with ablation than we would have thought about previously. While the technology is allowing you to be more efficient and to do the procedure in a more safe manner at the same time a body of patients that we should be considering fibrillation continues to expand. So for example there was a time not that many years ago when we thought patients over 75 years of age maybe 80 that the effects of atrial fibrillation had affected or impacted the left atrium but to such a degree that it was an insurmountable problem and therefore we abandoned rhythm control options in this case ablation. that has really removed the needle and it's causing us to reflect and come back to these patients where we're thinking well the procedure is safer and it doesn't hurt to take a shot at this at least once with this new modality. I think you will see in quotes the indication of upper ablation continue to evolve. It's not just because the data has suggested that we should probably be more aggressive even in patients that were heading towards left ventricular cyst devices and really endstage heart failure which was the patient population in castle htx. Also, when the tools that enable you to do this prove safer and more efficient, the bar gets lower and therefore a larger sloth of population and demographic of patients can be considered. Dr. Bernaby, as you're expanding the patient population that's suited for AIB ablation, what's the patient experience like? Are there any perceptible differences for the patient with regard to the procedural experience compared with traditional RFA? Tell us about that. Anecdotally in our experience I think radio frequency specifically in heat one of the more common things we would hear or see was some pericarditis or inflammation after the ablation chest discomfort. We don't seem to get that with pulse field. Otherwise the experience in and of itself I think is almost identical by and large. I mean there are some subtle changes. For example when you're doing a procedure that is so much more efficient and really is a procedural time much shorter by comparison. Little things that maybe we don't think about all the time can prove important. For example, some institutions when they did radio frequency were using Foley catheters because the procedures tended to be a little bit longer. And now that you have a much shorter procedure, you don't really need to worry about foley and urinary issues. Just anecdotally, one of the more common and quote complications in days of old was a UTI. But by and large, I think the experience for patients is pretty close if they had a traditional ablation previously. I think it's going to be probably somewhat similar in that we still go through the femoral veins. Patients are often supine and bed rest for at least one to two hours afterwards or more at some institutions, but by and large similar. Doctor, I'd like you to speak to other surgeons for a minute as far as the learning curve since it's relatively new on the scene. Give us any technical considerations. You've mentioned a few but just expand a bit. Is it done as outpatient? Are there learning curves involved? Tell us just a little bit about the procedure itself for other surgeons. Fair question. So learning curve on this type of device I think most would find to be extraordinarily userfriendly. Radio frequency and pointby-point ablation tends to require and demand more experience and a greater evolved skill set. There's a couple of companies now in this space, but the most commonly used is Ferrarulse by Bostonic which we happen to use and you know it depends on your prior experience. For example, I did use a cryob balloon earlier in my career as well as radio frequency. Having that optionality was always I thought a bus but having some experience with a cryob balloon did translate into my comfort with this system. So I think it depends on your experience and maybe training and biases and practice. But I think most would agree that this energy source or modality is very easily picked up and adopted. And yes, to answer your other question, for us it has always been an outpatient procedure. As far as the experience goes, I often joke with our patients that it feels like getting on a plane for a short flight in the air. It takes longer to get on the plane and off the plane than you're actually in the air. In this case, the anesthesia often proves to be the rate limiting step for us. So it takes, you know, half hour to an hour to get asleep, half hour to wake up, but the actual work itself is anywhere from 20 to 30 or 40 minutes on average. That's a great analogy, Dr. Bernaby. And as we get ready to wrap up, I'd like you to speak about the key messages that you would like other referring physicians to know about PFA at Penn Medicine, what you're doing there, and why this is so important. Now, I think the conversation, but also the decision-m has evolved and changed. And what I mean by that is there was a time in my early career where ablation was really considered a secondary therapy. It started with anti-riythmic drugs and medications and then if that wasn't working or there was a side effect then we would pivot and consider ablation. We're at the point now where ablation is really I think rapidly becoming the primary treatment option and the population of patients that I talked about earlier has expanded exponentially. And so I guess I would just encourage our colleagues when they're seeing patients with AIB to consult us, pick up the phone. My colleagues across the pen medicine system are more than happy to expound on AIB because this is all we do every day all day. It's something we think about all day and are quite passionate about and spend a lot of time trying to help patients navigate. So I think bottom line, yes, we're becoming more and more aggressive and more and more bullish on ablation. So any questions or thoughts, please reach out and we're happy to see these patients and try to figure out what the next best step is. Thank you so much for joining us and sharing your incredible expertise today. To refer your patient to Dr. Bernaby at Pen Medicine, please call our 247 provider line at 877937 PEN or you can submit your referral via our secure online referral form by visiting our website at penmed.org/refer your patient. That concludes this episode from the specialists at Pen Medicine. I'm Melanie Cole.