- [Dylan] The Penn Medicine Access Center is important because it's the front door to the health system. - Hi, thank you for calling Penn Medicine. My name is Leah, how can I assist? - Penn Medicine Access Center is the largest call center at Penn Medicine. We service about 30 different practices within the health system. We have about 450 employees. We take about four million phone calls a year and schedule about one million appointments a year. (gentle music) Being an agent is a really difficult job. It can sometimes be call after call, long wait times. It becomes a vicious cycle when there are calls holding, and our current technology can lead to a fragmented experience for the patients. - No one really wants to call the hospital, you know? Usually patients, they're not always just scared, but they're a little bit annoyed. We know that the patient doesn't mean to be harmful in any way, they're just upset that there's something going on that they don't know how to fix. - My job is to help them, to get them to where they need to be. (phone rings) Thank you for contacting Penn Surgery. This is Rob speaking, how may I help you today? I'm not a physician, I'm not a clinician. I'm not that, but I can get you to where you need to go. Once you give the patient options and let them know what is possible within the tools you have and what you can do, they tend to be more open. - Oh, I'm so sorry you are experiencing those symptoms. Unfortunately, I can't give any clinical advice. I'm non-clinical, but I can surely get you over to a nurse. - I think one of my most challenging days was I had a patient who had a very advanced heart issue. They were pretty much being told like, without intervention, it might just be a couple months. This hurts me. I wanted to do all that I could. - It's not as easy as I think people think. It's a hard job, because they're in some form of pain. My job, and the job of the ASA in general, is to get them to where they need to be. People just want help. (uplifting music) Here at the Access Center, we're supporting the best clinicians in the world. Project Ascend, we're looking to implement a multi-channel patient communication system that reduces that fragmentation in the patient experience, so across all channels: web, phone, text, or on MS. On the agent end, all the software we use now that doesn't communicate with each other will. And from the patient perspective it will reduce some of that fragmentation that they find when calling. So the next couple years for the Access Center we're going to continue to integrate practices into Central Access and we'll continue to align with our other call center partners, but we'll roll up into one kinda central structure. The Access Center is an incredibly supportive place. The teams are really close and support their agents. - [Man Wearing Mask] A patient just called to congratulate you and thank you for the professional interaction you had with them. So thank you. - Thank you. - At the end of the day, I know that I did everything in my power and I exhausted every measure to help this patient, and it kind of just feels good, like you just feel like, "I really helped somebody today." - It's the best feeling in the world to know that you have helped somebody. It's rewarding. It's so rewarding. (uplifting music)