 and time actually because not only are we getting ready to celebrate the 250th anniversary of our nation, but this is 275 year anniversary of Pennsylvania Hospital coming up. So really exciting time to be interviewing the CEO. Yep, let's go down and interview him. Welcome everybody to another exciting episode of the Deep End Podcast. My name is Sayed Azari. I'm Hank Davis. That's been Franklin. And we're joined by Kevin Mahoney who we'll introduce in just a moment. But what makes this episode incredibly special is the fact that we will soon be celebrating our nation's 250th anniversary. But even more special than that we are at Pennsylvania Hospital in the nation's first medical library where the first surgical amphitheater is just above us. It's undergoing construction. But how incredible is that? And that was 275 years ago. And so just this morning Hank and I had a podcast with a medical historian and kind of talking through time about the advances over the past two centuries essentially. Just to think about how far we've come and it's just such an incredibly exciting place to be. As sort of a background to our listeners, the Deep End Podcast was sort of rooted in plastic surgery. But then we since expanded we just have enjoyed all the conversations that we've had with thought leaders to expand beyond plastic surgery to interview just leaders in medicine surgery but also within institutions just like yourself. So that brings me to introducing Kevin Mahoney who is the CEO of the University of Pennsylvania Health System, the clinical enterprise of Penn Medicine. And throughout his career he has helped lead Penn Medicine through scientific breakthroughs, expansions in care delivery and an era of innovations. We're going to talk about navigating the COVID-19 which was incredibly challenging but we will definitely hit on very exciting innovations, CAR T therapy and of course the Nobel Prize sort of backstory. So long story short, I've looked up to you personally. I know Hank and I have talked about this about just your leadership style that's really grounded in humility, humanity. And so we're just incredibly grateful to have you here today. So thank you so much. No, I appreciate being here. And as you mentioned being a Pennsylvania hospital is always a treat. It is a remarkable part of our nation's history and so much of what makes Penn Medicine, Penn Medicine started here in 1765. So it's really it just you can't tell you how if you're down in the dumps coming down here and remember I think we're having a bad day imagine trying to do medicine 275 years ago. And I've heard you say before that you know the University of Pennsylvania you know was built on the ideal of the creation of knowledge but also disseminating it and what other way to experience that or to palpate that than being in the first medical library. Yeah, I mean it's incredible. 100%. As you also mentioned you know we're not stagnant. Yeah. But Ben Franklin, Benjamin Rush, their DNA is in the culture of Pennsylvania Hospital. In leadership everyone says you know you got to change the culture and you can change culture. You can realign it, you can move it in a different direction but our history started here so it's just great to be here today. And speaking of culture that's what makes you know your role so integral to the success of Penn Medicine. And but we like to start kind of back on your journey with you know brought you to where you are today. Can you tell us a little bit about yourself? Sure. Yeah. I will give you the truncated version. My wife and kids will tell you, I tell stories that are way too long and repetitive but let me run through it. I didn't grow up far from here out near Valley Forge Pennsylvania. Come from a very large Irish Catholic family that had a built-in wonderfulness to it which was I always had friends. You know I wanted to play baseball I call Sean, Regan, Brian, just go out and there were always people around. It was great. The other thing though about growing up in that family is both parents are alcoholics, brother and sister is afflicted. So the Irish trait in Irish history runs deep in me and in the family. I love poetry. I love to read and think through different things and I think that's you know from my grandparents and it's been wonderful. I didn't put a whole lot of thought into my career. I graduated from Connoisseur High School and I said I guess I'll give college a try. So I went to the closest state college that's where we could afford the Valley Forge which was Millersville and off I went and I had a great time. Was that the military institute? That was in the Valley Forge military institute? No, no, Millersville State College in Lancaster. Okay, gotcha. But one of the great things about college was it was like my large Irish Catholic family. I could always find someone to throw a baseball, throw a cross ball. One thing you'll never forget me say was anybody want to go study? So when I finished on my first year I had a 1.98 grade point average and I got a letter student of Ferris saying you know you might want to reconsider whether college is a good plan for you and that summer three things were going to happen to me that put me on the path that I've become the CEO at the health system. The first was in late July I was working for a landscaper and I ran into Bill Rouse. Mr. Rouse is famous in Philadelphia because he was the first person that built taller than City Hall and I remember reading in the paper like this was a huge controversy. He can build taller than the William Penn Statute and he said zoning, regulation, rule like why can't I? And the answer is always you know we just don't do that in Philadelphia. He said Poppycock I'm building. I met him out in Great Valley and the landscaper dropped me off with my tractor. Meet Bill Rouse and he'll tell you what to do. Mr. Rouse said I want you to cut this cornfield this July and it was all growing and I said why would I cut this and he said because next week I'm in an open house I need to put my tent up here and I was like why? He said I'm building offices and I said that'll never work. People work downtown they sleep in the suburbs they take the train in the center city. Yeah they sleep in the suburbs you work downtown. He said rule, regulation zoning like why? And I said that's just the way it's always been and he put out a cigarette and he said Kevin never do things the way they've always been. I make it sound like we were two peers having a conversation. Bill Rouse was the man. I was just listening along but it really implanted on me. I then hopped on my tractor back and forth day after day after day. I fell off the tractor on the tractor. The tractor ran over me. Wow. Ended up in the hospital on a ventilator. Priest gave me last rites. Oh my gosh. It was it was um should have been a traumatic experience and I know it was traumatic on my family. Yeah. For me it was the house was a pretty cool place because I was a very self-centered 18 year old 19 year old at that point who only thought about himself. And all of a sudden the nurses the food service worker like everybody just wanted me to get better and I'm like this is remarkable like really remarkable. I also tell everybody I was in the hospital for um my length of stay was three popes Paul the six John Paul uh one and then John Paul two. Um so I was in there for quite a long time but I also grew up in there. They were giving me a hundred milligrams of demoral and it wasn't long before I couldn't wait for four hours to go by so I get another hundred milligrams of demoral and a nurse came in at night never turned the light on just her voice. You're getting addicted. I'm like no I'm not I'm in pain. Yeah. And she said no you waited for four hours and then you hit your buzzer. And she said give me 30 minutes if you're still in pain I'll come back in. I watched that clock 30 minutes and then I hit that buzzer. She came back in and she said I'm telling you you're getting addicted. Give me another this one on all night and by daylight I wasn't taking it anymore. She never put the light it was just the calmness of her voice. So I walked out of there saying I want to work in a hospital. We've already established I wasn't a very good student so I couldn't be a doctor like you guys. I didn't know what I was going to do but I loved that environment. And then the third thing that happened to me that put me here is November 10th 1979 I went back to Millersville to see my friends who got me in trouble the first time so naturally ended up in a bar. I walked into the bar and I saw the most beautiful person in the world and we've been together ever since and Pam has that was 47 years ago. Pam taught me how to study. She taught me she is I'm Irish and get upset. She's very calm. Take me in my life. I come running home and I'm like a workers and she's like standing their shoes and she's a yin to my yang and I love her to death but she is truly responsible for how I ended up where I am. As people say you're a better half. A better 80 percent. Yeah that's true well what you just talked about for the past several minutes is exactly why I love this podcast is because we go to the same places over and over and hear the same stories but we don't get to hear something that really just like shivers down my spine just hearing your story and this truly speaks towards your leadership qualities that we so deeply like it inspire us so deeply particularly how humble you are to even be able to share a story like that in a leader's position that you're in. I'm sure that that must have been because people probably struggle with sharing stories like that when you're in a role as a CEO. I think you're right but I don't know if it's just being a CEO people tend to want to put forward what they think people want to say. So what I'd rather say you got a Harvard MBA and you know I was a CEO when I was 23 but it's not a real story. The real story is the struggles that I went through. Yeah and I think if everybody just put their guard down a little bit and really express how they feel and what's going on and not I have to role model a physician or I have to role model a CEO or I mean I do I want the 52,000 employees to have confidence in me. They believe that we're head in the right direction that I actually know what I'm doing so I don't have to worry about their job but I don't want them to salute me. You know I want to talk about the Eagles Cowboys with the guys and and you know not the most recent. Yeah I don't want to talk about that one. But also you know talk to physicians about what's on your mind how could I help you and you know you mentioned cartoons some other things. A lot of that I was involved with because I just walked up to a physician and said how can I help you and next thing you know they're giving me ideas. I followed up on those ideas and then they gave me more and you know one thing leads to another but it starts with that. How can I help you? Yeah and it's and what a better quality to have you know as someone leading you know a health system where our whole goal is to how can we help patients how can we help you. You can let your guard down this is our most vulnerable moments that's exactly what you're looking for when you're trying to lead. What are some other great leadership qualities or other great leaders that you've maybe tried to model yourself after. Yeah no well some are specific to our industry. A lot of people stop by and you know give me career advice and I run I run through some things pretty quickly. Pick your organization first and your job second. You know people will come in and say I want to be a CEO and I said you can be one tomorrow. It's going to be searchlight Nevada and it's a 10-bed hospital in the middle of the desert but no no I meant I want to be the CEO of Penn Medicine that's a different thing. So I don't think people should pursue titles but pursue organizations that'll have impact and that's why you know I'm so blessed to be at Penn Medicine. And then from there go on whatever path you're meant to be on. You can go on whatever path you're meant to be on but also whatever path you choose to take. And which might not be CEO. Might not be CEO but it might be impactful. Would you rather be Carl June or Drew Weisman or Kevin Mahoney. Yeah man I'd rather be would you know a nurse at bedside over in Six Bruce in our behavioral health unit that could change somebody's life just like that nurse changed my life and in my story. I mean that's impact and people I think underestimate undervalue the impact you're having versus your title and your salary. Yeah and and I'd like people to assess a little bit more impact impact on your kids impact on your neighbors impact on patients pick your organization first your job second impact know what would you want to be measured by and and you know for me again it was impact and the third is to be kind and work harder than anybody around. Yes people look at my salary and they say man you get paid a lot of money I work really hard. Yeah and I try to tell my team you don't have to answer my 3 a.m. emails. I don't I don't expect everyone to work the same way I do but I have an urgency and impatience behind what we're doing that we got to pick it up. Yeah and I try to impart that urgency not craziness but urgency on the yeah on the workforce. Yeah I want to back step for a moment because I was so interested by your story so you were in the hospital you left you met your wife but then what truly guided you on this path like what really took you down at some point I want to be a leader in medicine path. I think that's a great question I think it came more naturally than that so again I'll take it through wasn't something you aspire you're like at one point I'm going to be the CEO. No no it was something that I realized I could become but it wasn't it was never on the path but I'll take you to my first day at Episcopal Hospital so I get off the L at Somerset which is was the open drug market open air drug market and at the time this would have been 1983 it was you know a neighborhood that was struggling but you still get on and off and so I hopped off the L I went in the door closest to the L station which was the basement door in the back of the hospital I had all my khaki pants my blue jacket my striped tie like I thought I was ready to look like a boss and I walked in and immediately the workers what are you doing down here who are you? It's my first day at work yeah but why are you down here? I said well it's my first day at work I'm headed up to administration and they're like no administration they parked their cars out front and they go in that door like why did you well because they took the L. Why are you down here? I said what's wrong with you guys we're going on strike and I said so you assume I'm the spy you know I can't why else would somebody from we haven't seen an administrator down here in a decade like why would you be here if you were in a spy? Interesting conversation a little unsettling but man they communicated to me they were going on strike and then went to my first meeting that day which was the strike task force and the vice president um running a Ken I won't give his last name but Ken told everybody what are you doing July 4th weekend well what about the strike they're not going on strike who are you? I'm Kevin Holywise where do I keep asking my name and and he said what's on your mind? I said they're going on strike he said no they're not I think they are he said I've been here 20 years you've been here two hours I think I'm right on June 30th I kissed Pam goodbye took the L back down to Episcopal went in there because I knew in midnight when they shut it down somebody's gonna have to wash the dishes and stuff like that and at midnight they shut it down the sun came up the next morning all the administrators were on the other side of the fence and I was on the inside of the fence and the point about leadership all of a sudden I realized I could do what that guy was doing I could be a vice president because he was just up there talking and you know by being present walking around listening understanding it was just it taught me a lot it also though unleashed what I try to tell people is probably the most important trait for a leader which is intellectual curiosity and so they had a personnel quit over this contract they said you want to run personnel I'll make this in two words I walked in the risk manager now I'm ahead of personnel and I had to go down and negotiate with the 1199c union and Henry Nicholas who is the leader I keep taught me this is why I do this is what I need you know back and forth and it wasn't it was um learning by a masterclass not by a book yeah like to learn at 24 union negotiations go from the head of 1199c a national union was just you know irreplaceable opportunity but I grabbed that opportunity and I probably kept them there longer than he expected because I was just quizzing and trying to gather up that that information so I don't think it was aspiring to be a leader it was aspiring to know and learn as much as I could so that I could help make the right decisions yeah it's you know there's so much talk especially you know when we've interviewed some prior leaderships at other hospitals so much talk about who should be fitting that role should it be a surgeon should it be medicine should it be outside of medicine but I think we're all losing focus and some of the most important things that you mentioned you have to have somebody that can walk around and hear what's needed in the hospital and maybe we're losing focus of maybe you don't need the Harvard MBA maybe you don't need to be a surgeon maybe you don't need to be medicine and you just need somebody who's grounded and can talk to people and things like that in addition to that I do think the future leaders of healthcare will be physicians why is that let's go through what do I have to do I need to understand the ecosystem well who knows the ecosystem better than a physician or advanced nurse like Regina Cunningham the CEO of HUB like you know we're in the clinical business so it makes sense that a clinician would run the clinical business the clinician runs Penn Medicine my boss John Epstein is a physician before that Larry Jameson before that Arthur Rubinstein Bill Kelly so Penn Medicine's always been led by a physician I think further though we'll have more physicians and leadership positions moving forward I hope that they'll adopt some of the practices that I just talked about yeah but if you don't understand the ecosystem including how we get paid you can't you can't run the place because how we get paid is sometimes counterintuitive to American business but that walking around I mentioned Carl June I met Carl and the first thing I said to him is like how do you spend your day well I go to my wet lab in BRB and then I go to my animal mouse hospitals up at Presby and then I come back here to see how the the patients are doing and I'm like this is before cell phones I'm like dude that's a lot of steps and a lot of unproductive time and Carl probably ran those steps but it got me thinking about the building that we put up the research building where the wet labs here the mouse hospitals here and the patients being treated on one elevator I see yeah so rather than I have to go you know accidentally bumping into somebody on the elevator saying you know I just saw this on his patient scan what do you think and that that face-to-face inquisitiveness I think that's the the main job of a CEO yeah you you've talked a lot about the the main job of CEO good leadership qualities in your role what do you think has been the greatest challenge or the thing that you're like I wasn't prepared for this well I mean I think that probably comes up almost I wasn't expecting this comes up all the time I think the greatest challenge has been interpreting the tea leaves from Washington whether it's Bill Clinton Joe Biden like it's not Republican Democrat but we're driven that's very true by that the policies that they make and trying to understand what they are what the impact will be and um uh uh health health resolution one which changed Medicaid and so much I can figure out the math problem of that so at Penn we're going to get paid $383 million less over the next 10 years I can figure it out what I can figure out is how do I get that poor person in West Philadelphia who had Medicaid yeah but has now kicked off the rolls and they're kicked off the rolls because work requirements you gotta you know you gotta re-register every six months those are the unexpected challenges but um and you know I I can certainly go through more but um you need to have like an adaptability and take whatever comes your way and be creative enough to be able to come up with solutions for these problems yeah they're so convoluted and and and also though um to face it head on yeah right so in the late 90s we were burning through cash faster than the US men could print it and we were going bankrupt and I I talk about the three room solution in room one uh the the university was thinking of selling the health system in room two there was a consulting group in the hunter group saying give us a management contract because the idiots run in the place can't can't do it in room three were the idiots who were running the place and we said if we don't stick together and figure this out they're gonna pick room one or two and we won't be here yeah and and we figured it out but it was it was convoluted it was a problem but we we faced it with bravado confidence um agility yeah that's a scary time yeah and one obviously one of the other um challenges that comes to everybody's mind is COVID-19 and navigating that tell me about those dark times and and how we were able to pull ourselves through that and come out on the other side yeah I I think it's a layered response that I want to give you yeah um so how we got through it was together how we also got through it I think was by listening and lastly we got through it by science and and we shouldn't um we shouldn't forget that last one um so I remember I was with Dr. Jamison he was a Dean have you heard about this virus in China yeah you know it seems we're sweeping through and we opened a building uh at Chester County Hospital on March the 6th that was the last time for months we would all be together and we were cutting that ribbon and um there were a couple name tags missing and they were missing because those people had COVID if they had been there we might have been the super spreader event yeah you know that that happened but we we were methodical in how we went through it we were on the phone at seven and four every day with the whole team seven days a week here from Dr. Governor Wolfe here and from the physicians you remember bend the curve yeah you know yeah I got on a video you know a talent hall and I told everybody we're going to bend the curve stay six feet apart where you're masking we'll get through this together I left my office I was walking across the bridge over to Old Hop and one of my employees stopped me and they said I just heard you saying my kids are going to die that's what he's talking about and he said maybe where you live staying six feet apart is possible in my house I have four kids in one bedroom yeah we can't say all of a sudden it was man I better be careful what I'm saying yeah because people are listening to every word that I'm putting out right they wanted so much to believe that there was someone looking out for the the future so we did that um the science part you know we're very proud of Dr. Weisman and Dr. Creco incredible Nobel Prize incredible yeah they just rapid turnaround it shows you when America says we're going to do something and we're together we can get it done yeah you know John Kenny we're going to moon by the end of the century president trump you know operation warp speed we're going to get this and we did because we eliminated so many of the red tape but also the arguments back and forth about who's getting credit not getting credit and Alex Gorski who's the president J&J he'd be calling me what's it like what can I help you with and um you know he was in competition with BioNTech and Moderna for operation warp speed but he parked that like he wanted to win at the same time he wanted to find out where the thing's going on that that he could um he could help with um we learned a lot uh we relearned a lot about teamwork because without that red tape I mean we were standing uh David Ash and the team stood up COVID watch yeah in nine days and we published a paper on it that you know we saved a lot of lives with COVID watch and it was an app the worst thing to do if you were thought you were sick or not is go to the emergency room because if you weren't sick you were going to get sick sitting in that emergency room yeah go in the emergency room probably meant you were going to end up you know pulse ox get you know admitted and  and neseruaginetid. So we were able to use remote patient monitoring to keep people out of the hospital to follow them. You know, if they got sick, they got expedited in. But they built that I think in, like I said, nine days. Today it might take me nine years. The other thing that was great, every Friday at noon, Jefferson Temple, Children's Hospital, Einstein, we were all on the phone together. What do you need? You know, Einstein, we're out of gowns. All right, we'll send you gowns, but you got to promise you're going to replenish it because, you know, but it wasn't, people weren't hoarding, we were sharing. We were trying to survive. Today that doesn't happen, like we compete, but for one brief shining moment, there was no competition. That's special when, you know, it shows just humanity. When something that, you know, significant boosts up, we kind of all put all the other stuff aside and try to solve what truly matters. And that brings me also just to Penn Medicine's legacy, you know, just thinking about how special it is being where we are now. But what are some of the things that, like you find special about Penn Medicine and what makes us different? And like what's part of our DNA here that separates us? I think what separates us is our dedication to science. And, you know, we have a huge health system, 8 million outpatient visits, 135,000 inpatient admissions, almost 12 billion of revenue every year. It is a remarkably large place. We're taking care of a patient today. We're also using what we learned from that patient and take care of a patient in the future. And our legacy will be where we started. Knowledge gets created at Penn and quickly disseminated. Not, we're going to hold on to it. If you're one of the Carl June, he's very proud of having the first FDA approval for gene therapy. He's more proud that 50,000 people worldwide have received his treatment. Like he keeps track of how many. And that shows the Penn legacy. There's some child cured of acute leukemia will say in Texas. They don't know Penn. We don't have a big football team. They don't know Dr. June or Dr. Carrico or, but they're alive because of Penn. And I think that'll be our long-term legacy. But we're able again, able to do that because the health system funds a lot of the research. So when the NIH won't fund, because Carl had a crazy idea. And the answer was you have any clinical data. It's kind of hard to get clinical data if you won't give me a grant. So, you know, we were able to help those early studies together with philanthropy and then, you know, the rest took off. And I guess along the same lines, one thing that I'm always curious about is especially during COVID, but even beyond that is how Penn is well financially and profitable. And especially during COVID where I'm hearing about like hospitals closing and just being in the red where Penn was able to maintain itself. And recently, I think they just reported what the profits were for the first quarter of the year. What do you think helps it be still financially strong? So people call us and ask that question. So since the late 90s, we've never lost money, including, including during COVID, there are a lot of federal dollars coming in, but we made money from operations. And it is just a fiscal discipline that you have to have. And a lot of people call, can I, you know, come tell me your secret? The secret is our revenues are higher than our expenses. Like that, there's no other way than hard work. But I think it's dependent upon trust more than anything. And what I mean by that, COVID hit, people were worried about their jobs, you know, hotels were closed and a lot of people were out of work. And we made a promise no one will lose their job at Penn Medicine because of COVID. And we paid a lot of people to stay home. They didn't have to use their PTO, they got paid. And I think that, you know, when it passed, they came back re-energized because we had, we took care of them and vice versa. We have a great funds flow system. So our goal is to get as much money over the threshold and then we disperse it. Other systems, the practice plan wants to get the most money because they don't want to share with the hospital. The hospital wants to get the money because they want to share with the practice plan. Philanthropy comes in, people want to, you know, donate the science, but they want their name on one of our buildings. We put the name on the building because we're integrated, you know, we're one. So I think being mission driven and understanding that, you know, we're working for a higher purpose, which is cures, not just getting bigger. I think that is number one reason why we've been profitable is mission number two is fiscal discipline runs through us like no tomorrow. And it's probably a result of the late 90s. And then third is it's a very collaborative organization and people will stop me and give me ideas and I'm able to bounce ideas off people and it's never, there are no dumb ideas. There are dumb solutions, but we're often, you know, we talk each other out of those solutions. I think the very last thing I'd say on it, it is a highly matrixed organization where, you know, we're probably the only 12 billion dollar organization that doesn't publish an organizational chart. And, you know, it is, but if you work the matrix, what comes out the other side is almost always guaranteed to be a winner because a lot, so you can get frustrated. Like why do I do a talk that person? Why I've talked that person? If you do all those steps, you'll probably have a better solution than if you don't have, you don't have to work that hard to get things out. Yeah. I think this is sort of going off script, but I'm so curious about it. I'm sure you'd be curious about it too is thinking about all of the residents, medical students, medical students go through a crazy amount of debt. Yes. Unbelievable amount of debt. And then you become a resident and your pay is not the same as your buddies who went into finance and investment banking for another four or five years and then you do a fellowship, you're still underpaid. And so then there's this move like NYU, for instance, to do tuition free for medical school. I know Hopkins has made their medical school tuition free if you make a certain income with your families. Do you ever see the future of medicine potentially offering that, for instance, at Penn Medicine for future medical students, etc? Well, currently, it's about 60% of our class is tuition free. So it's not across the board. And what through what means? Anthlanthropy. Mr. Gamble, who just passed the Gamble Scholars, he endowed that. Mr. Perlman, we have the Perlman Scholars, he endowed that, but it's means tested. But it's about 60%. Mm hmm. I think more important is, and it's in our strategic plan is to shrink the length of time to become a physician. Yes. And I think there are a lot of tools that we're going to be able to use to do that. Dr. Jamison said, you know, when I graduated, he's an endocrinologist. He said, I want to know everything there was to know about endocrinology. And if you ever met Dr. Jamison, I think he probably did. And that carried him forward. He was a subject matter expert. He said, you know, with AI, with all the resources, maybe not be the subject matter expert as much as I know how to get data that you can trust. Not just any data now, but, you know, be able to sit through that and move forward. So does that take four years? So, you know, and Dr. Epstein and Dr. Jen Kogan are working on that. As you know, not, I don't want anyone to listen and think, depends, shorten in it, but the discussions on the way. Same thing on training, you know, particularly surgical training, which is you got to watch some, then you hold a retractor for some, and then you open and then you move along. Dan Hashimata, one of our surgeons, his tag tagline is Dr. Laprascope on LinkedIn, but he's working on, you know, how do I teach the robot in virtual reality, as opposed to on a person? And could we shrink seven years of cardiac surgery to five? Could you shrink? It makes a big difference. Makes a big difference in the cost. Makes a big difference in your earning potential. You brought it up. It's 100% correct. But people will say, you know, a neurosurgeon makes you know, $1.7 million. That's a pretty good living. Yeah, but from 22, correct, it's 38. They didn't. Whereas if you're in fintech, you're making money that whole time. So we think a big thing is to compress, not to make it so fast that we don't produce great physicians, but to be more efficient in education that'll lower the cost. And like in Europe, we had this discussion this morning where you're combining undergrad with medical school and accelerating that path. And it's funny you mentioned this as well, but a lot of my friends in undergrad went into, you know, are now hedge fund and private equity already talking about retirement. I'm just starting my job, you know, and I trained in general surgery, which was seven years to then become a plastic surgeon. Did I really need all those seven years, you know, but just an interesting topic. The other thing that I want to talk about is something near and dear to my heart. I'm from Virginia, but I've absolutely grown to love Philadelphia. It's a city, just like this medical library, this hospital itself, it's such a unique city with such a tremendous history and legacy. How do you think that that's kind of shaped Penn to where it is today, but also like now Penn is expanding, you're building a cancer center in Princeton. And so what's the future of Penn that initiated in Philadelphia? So I mean, Penn in Philadelphia, the stories are linked. You know, if you go down to 4th Street, you'll find the plaque. Yes. Here was Pennsylvania Academy, which was the University of Pennsylvania. I love history. And one of the things that you read about is you can't do higher education in urban setting. So we're going to move all the way on the other side of the Skouko River because this city will never get there. And it's, it's gone. But then in the in the late 1800s, a gentleman by Henry Erdman, there was a move to move Penn to Valley Forge. And the university owned a huge amount of property out there. And Mr. Erdman gave money to put up a building on the Valley Forge campus, the University of Pennsylvania. We used that money to build Penn Medicine at Valley Forge. So the history of Philadelphia and Penn is just completely linked and always will be. The part of the Philadelphia culture that I think is ingrained in Penn is gritty. You know, my father-in-law came in to get his cancer treated. And I remember the fellow said, you know, he said, I'm going to die, right? And the fellow said, we're stubborn. We're not letting you go yet. And it just that willingness to, the hours that the scientists put in to come up with cures and, you know, they get data. Other people will be like, this is never going to work. They readjust and move forward. So I think that that grit that makes Philadelphia Philadelphia is a key ingredient for Penn Medicine. So as we go to Princeton in the Cancer Center, it's not we're coming up. We know everything. We're coming up. We're going to outwork anybody in Mercer County. And we're not going to give up. We're going to bring the latest treatments and bring that teamwork of if we all pull together, we can improve this patient's life. I hope that. And what do you think about like an international presence? Do you see that that's going to be expanding as well? Yeah, it's a tough, it's a tough question. Dr. Glenn Gaughan has done a wonderful job expanding our educational footprint. So medical school in Vietnam, yeah, that we know medical school in Dubai, I think it fits with create the knowledge and disseminate it, you know, on the healthcare side, it's a little trickier. So a lot of places have either built hospitals overseas. Not sure that's our mission. Yeah, a lot of places have spent a lot of time trying to attract international patients to your hospital because they pay cash. Yeah, as a nonprofit. Should I have a bed for somebody from a foreign country, why a patient in West Philly can't get into the emergency room because it's so I think there's there's a balance. To date, we have stuck with our mission is in West Philadelphia, Lancaster, Princeton, the 27 counties that we take care of and any patient that wants to come. But on the international side, I think we're going to stick to what we're doing best right now. Yeah, Sir, let he's very proud of a slide that he always shares for all the incoming trainees and residents where he shows where Penn plastic surgery kind of started. And now he puts like a pen a pen shield everywhere that it's expanded to which is very impressive. But Dr. Srelady has also done that a lot himself. Yeah. Yeah. Way before Lancaster became part, Dr. Srelady was staying in a holiday in. Yes, he's see patients, he's sleeping the holiday ends, he patients the next day. And it's the grit. It is the grit. Yeah. You know, if you were the head of plastic surgery at Penn, you wouldn't think that you wouldn't think that you think you know, the guy does, you know, reconstructive and cosmetic surgeon probably doesn't you know, he's got an easy life, not he's moving to always comes down to like what we talked about earlier, the best leaders are on the ground putting in just as much work, if not more work than all the people that are representing that's what the best leaders do. They don't stay up and they're high, you know, and Dr. Srelady, I'm using Joe, but so many of our physicians are just fearless. Right. They learned a technique when they were 37 new technique comes out of 45. I'll relearn because I you know, I want I want to stay better net that fearlessness I think is also a hallmark of Penn. You think of other careers, you know, you want to learn it and just do the same thing each time. Yeah. And that's not available to a Penn doctor. Well, you know, one thing that he always says is he he actually which is it goes back to your point he actually trained in craniofacial surgery. So when he was initially doing microsurgery, which is completely different sub discipline, he was teaching himself and then people would tell him, don't do it this way, you should do it the way that everybody else does it and the way that the textbook right and he was like, why not do it this way is like this way will work too. In fact, a lot of the ways that he has done it is better than the ways. So just like you were talking about like people telling you, you know, and just forging your own path, etc. So yeah, no, what Joe Sirletti said is what Bill Rouse said exactly Bill Rouse was a real estate developer physician. But that fearlessness of I can figure this out the curiosity to not stick in the safe lane, but to expand I think is really important. I want to talk about we've we've we've hit this a few times already, but then the Nobel Prize and everything that's surrounding that in such a desperate time. What we talked about the grit at the hard work. What do you think actually made that happen at Penn Medicine? It happened many years before. Yeah. And you know, we talk a lot about the famous copy machine. Yeah. You know, we're Dr. Crico and yes, Dr. Weisman ran into each other. I actually think one of the heroes is Harvey Friedman, who was the chief of infectious disease and brought in an immunologist in his division. And an immunologist who had such crazy ideas that elaboration, but he couldn't get grant see but Harvey said there's something there and he kept growing and nurturing and Dr. Weisman had his idea. He met you're being kept in the loop during this time. No, I mean, later on people mentioned messenger RNA to me, but nobody was in the loop like early on. I'm talking way before COVID. Yeah. You know, but messenger RNA, it really wasn't. I don't know how to say like everybody kind of knew about it. But yeah, and occasionally somebody said, well, Madonna is really interested in what we can make some royalties. Nobody really knew yeah what a messenger RNA platform would do. Yeah, Drew and Katie did. And it turned out to be, you know, save the world put the pandemic and stop them in strikes. Again, we're talking about qualities of leadership. Dr. Weisman won the breakthrough prize. And we had a little ceremony of all of our breakthrough prize winners. Dr. Weisman, Dr. June, Dr. Virginia Lee. And, you know, they're being asked questions. What are we doing five years from now? I think most people in the audience thought, well, I'll be retired. Yeah, I just want to know about. I just want to know about prize. I'm going to Disney World or something. And Dr. Weisman says, I think I'll be walking through sub Sahara Africa with an Eagle Core full of one shot vaccines for sickle cell disease. He's already on to the next thing already on and not a tweak of what he's doing. But like completely bold. And you brought up humility a couple of times. You wouldn't expect to know about prize winner this day. I'm going to be walking through Africa with an Eagle Core. Yeah. But he's in it for the right reason. You know, but it also and I know we're almost out of time. I think another big part of Penn is we have a sacred obligation for health equity and accessibility. Yes. So Dr. June. Yes. First FDA approval at a time it was $479,000 a dose. I remember Zika manual, road and editorial. Can we afford to cure? But now scientists are working on in vivo solutions and how can we make how can we take $10 off the manufacturing process so that everybody in America can get that drug, not just rich people. And I think that's another part of our obligation. Yeah. The the CAR T therapy story that we talked about to be able to receive the treatment that you create is just incredible. What was kind of do you think that that's along the same lines as what we talked about when it came to like the messenger RNA just continuing to work at something with the support of your I think it's continuing to work at it. But it's also follow the science. So Dr. June and David Porter, Mike Kalos, Bruce Levine, they were the inventors of the CD 19 treatment. And they had a 10 person trial. They ran out of money on the first three because it was much more expensive than we thought. So it had enough money for 10 only do three. What are we going to do now? They're having lunch down in Gio Prano right in the Perlman center. And they said, let's publish. Right. Should we go try to get philanthropy? Should we ask the NIH for more money? Maybe we should go ask the health system for money. It was will publish. And that set off the race. It was like, you know, the starter gun went off and everybody wanted to buy it. We put so much emphasis on those first three patients were chronic leukemia, CLL. That's where we wanted all the research money to go. So we signed with Novartis. It didn't work. Carl then took the research, a lot of the research money and reach across the street to Dr. Steven Grubb at CHOP and said, pediatric AOL. It was the first time I'm not a scientist, but old T cells versus young T cells and, you know, maybe pediatric leukemia is something that we could have better success. But who would take money that was Novartis gave to Dr. June and Dr. June and Dr. June said, I'm going to share some with Dr. Grubb because I want to collaborate. And that doesn't happen in many industries. And Steven has become just a world renowned expert in pediatric AOL and has come up with many, many inventions. But I worked so hard to get all that money for a pen. And when Carl walked in, I didn't give it some away. I'm like, but he knew what was the right thing. Yes. And that's the thing is like trusting your people, you know, to do the right thing and just having that trust in them that they know what they're doing is the right thing. But I think back to what we just talked about, CAR-T, Nobel Prize, messenger RNA, everything else that's happening at Penn Medicine where Penn's expanding to, a lot of it has happened under your leadership. And what do you hope to be remembered for in 50 years from now? Hopefully he was a good husband and a good father. Yeah. Now behind that was he cared and he made a difference. Yeah. I think from everyone that we've talked to before on these broadcasts, it sounds like a lot of it starts at home, you know, and if you have that foundation, good support from your wife who allows you to answer emails at 3am, is she in healthcare at all? Pam was a special ed teacher. She worked at the Orbrook School for the Blind and then helped raise our kids and now she should get a paycheck from Penn because she's down here all the time. Yeah. And she's very supportive of me, but also knows almost as many people as Penn as I do and they'll tell her, you know, Kevin was off his game today or could you, you know, put this in and just very helpful. But I think whether you're a parent or a CEO, it's pretty much the same job description and a lot of lessons from parenting apply to run in large organizations. So I think that might be why some things end up at home. You seem like you would share this with the audience and I love asking people this, but what's your kind of day to day like? Like, how much sleep do you need? Do you do anything outside of work? Currently or currently? Yeah. So no, we're, I am working, working, working. I mean, the one, our grandkids, you know, love going down and seeing them and where are they? To a Nashville and one just left for Oregon. So I have asked myself, why do my kids move far away from me? You have to make time for your grandkids. So. Oh, no, for sure. For sure. But there's a lot going on right now. I will tell you a lesson I learned though pre COVID. The world's been different post COVID for sure. But pre COVID was, if I stared at a problem, I couldn't solve it. So I would be coaching my kids little league team, saying out there at third base, where the kids struck out for the fourth time in a row and, you know, oh man, that's how I'm going to solve that problem. Yeah. Right. I was on the local school board for 10 years and be sitting there and you got to reduce taxes. You know, you got to fire the football coach and everyone's screaming at you. And I'd be thinking about a part like if I stared at the problem, I couldn't solve it. Yeah. When you're distracted all of a sudden, you say, oh man, that's, that's what I should do. Yeah, that's a way to solve it. So the period right now I'd be lying if I didn't say my days are five AM usually home. I don't know nine, eight to nine somewhere around there, because there's almost always an evening event. And then I'll fall asleep and then I'll be up from two to three 30. Yeah. You must love what you do. I do. It's it. But I also love my country and I think, I think some of us have to step up and show there's a way forward. And I think Penn Medicine needs to be part of that solution. Yeah. We have a big initiative we're going to announce shortly on copial use. So it's not just Nobel Prize work. It's the things that Philadelphia, it takes you back to Philadelphia, what's important. Yeah. Well, I know we have a few more questions that we still want to ask you. But I'll ask you one more specifically. So I'm getting my MPH through Penn. And yesterday I was kind of surprised because one of my professors for the first time, everyone kind of across the board when you're talking about graduate studies, sort of says, don't use artificial intelligence. Don't use it. You see all these news stories about, you know, kids should not use it in college. For the first time, my professor yesterday said, for this assignment, I want you to use Jack GPT. And he embraced it. And he said, next year, I'm going to look to using more AI in our classes. And it's one of those things that I think to myself, it's like a technology that's coming. And eventually we're going to have to embrace it. And it could be very helpful. Where do you see AI kind of in the future of medicine and Penn medicine? AI is coming incredibly fast. It's going to change the way we do work. There are going to be two groups, those who embraced it and those who didn't. And you better be in the group that embraces it. I think AI in the classroom is very similar. I'm so much older than you guys. When growing up, could you use a calculator in math class? Should you have to be able to repeat by rote the formulas? And I'm talking probably the highest function was a square root. And no, you can't use that. No one's going to prevent you from using that in real life. But TI 30, by the time my nephews and nieces, they got more computing power in the TI 30 than I had in my Apple 2e. So AI is coming. I think we need to switch. How do you use it responsibly? How do you use it to prevent this information? Which is real and not real? I saw a clip the other day, it was President Kennedy standing in Dealey Plaza saying, you guys were all wrong. The shot came from over there. It looked and sounded just like him. I mean, it was incredible. And how, you know, it's going to be critical. But it's coming. I wanted to be embraced because it can make us more efficient. It can lower the cost of health care, it can make it more accessible. Maybe physicians won't have to...  wait until the 37 to get their first paying job. Maybe patients will be able to access Penn Medicine from the other side of the world through ALI. And robotic surgery, the future's gonna be a surgeon standing in Philadelphia, the patient can be in Florida. And it's gonna change so for young people. It's gonna happen. But I remember my dad worked for boroughs and mainframes and paper cards and I brought home an Apple IIE and he's like, that's got no power. Well, that's a gimmick. Yeah. Not so much a gimmick, but I worry we use terms like digital native and pre-internet and post-internet and the good news of AI is it can democratize scarcity. Right, so if you're in a part of the country where there aren't enough teachers, your education's not gonna be as well. Could AI fill in that part? Yeah. Rural, Pennsylvania, we're always talking about, we gotta get more doctors to go to rural Pennsylvania so we'll provide incentives. Well, could AI smooth out some of those valleys? And I think that's a positive. The negative, we have to make sure that the good guy's AI is better than the bad guy's AI. And that's where I think the role of higher education will be, is how do you ferret that out and how do you make sure the right stuff's getting through? I think one of the positive things I've noticed is health literacy and patient care communication. One thing that I'm amazed by on Epic these days, I'll get a patient question and then AI will generate educational material to provide the patient based off of that question. And I think that, especially when it comes to health literacy and I'm learning through the MBA studies, how many people don't, you don't understand how hard it is for them to grasp this knowledge as a patient. But AI could hopefully perhaps expand that and allow them to better understand it through educational material, et cetera. So I think that that was been an incredible positive aspect of it. Yeah, I was on a call with one of our physicians in my 94 year old mother-in-law, she needs to have a procedure. And he went through the procedures and we find it, just worry about anesthesia. You're gonna be breathing on your own, but you won't remember anything. You know, we went through that four or five times. And then he said, while you're asleep, I'll do a colonoscopy as well. What do you mean I'm gonna be asleep? You told me I wasn't gonna be asleep. No, no, no. He said you're gonna be breathing on your own, the words he was using aren't what she was using. You take it for granted when you're just speaking. Because you were trained that. So democratizing knowledge, sharing knowledge, breaking it down. I think AI has a lot of those benefits for, the downside physicians will be when the patient shows up like a dang a dang a fever. Is that right? Yes, yes. Actually you don't. You've never left for when Pennsylvania, but you guys can have to deal with that as well. And hopefully AI might replace radiologists, but hopefully they'll never replace surgeons. AI will never replace a doctor, trust me. Because the knowledge will keep growing and Dr. Tessa Cook is in radiology, she does our radiology informatics. You'll never replace her. I mean, maybe we'll get quicker. You won't need serial CT scans for a lung nodule. Maybe we just need one. But you're still gonna need a radiologist. It's way overblown when people say we're not gonna need doctors. Well, and I have to adapt. Adapt, and I think going back to one of the initial things that you said about just the human touch in that patient-physician interaction, that's irreplaceable. Which also has such a dramatic impact on patients. It's just the nice patient-doctor interaction that you get that you can't get through AI. You know, but we have some fun questions we wanna end on. Yeah. Couple of rapid fires. Who would you say, like a book or a leader that shaped you? A book would be Stephen Covey's Seven Habits of Highly Effective People. And I say that because don't read it. The only one that matters is empathy. And that is one of the seven. And I think that is the hallmark of the medical profession. Don't pass judgment on your patient. Don't, you know, but understand where they are. The other part, though, would be any history books. Winston Churchill. He was talking about him at the beginning. Yeah. You know, in the reflection of time, a colonist, a racist and the like, but he did lead a country forward in pretty tough times. So from a leadership, President Kennedy has always fascinated me and his brothers. So I've read a lot of those, but I think those are... Yeah. I got a book the other day from a friend, Marcus Aurelius, who's in Gladiator. Yeah, Meditations. Yeah, I have that book. Incredible. Really, I'm really enjoying it. When they gave it to me, large print format. It's not that big of a book. I said, how old do you think I am? It's like 22-5. I was gonna get Saeed a copy of all pictures. So thank you, Frank. A place in Philadelphia that grounds you or that you enjoy going to from time to time. It can't be related to Penn Medicine. Yeah. The place that probably I enjoy going to the most right now is any of the restaurants around Rittenhouse Square. Yeah, one of your favorite. And we go through, probably Park. Yeah, I love Park. That's also, it's comfortable. And the new one they just opened up is pretty good too, I like it. The part of Philly that naturally, you know, is Old City. It's a great spot. We did the Big Bus Store, which is a highly recommended to the listeners. The other thing I wanted to mention before I go into the last question is I'm happy that Penn took over that billboard right by Hop. Did you ever drive by it and you say, what, we have to change this? Not only did I drive by it every day, people take pictures. In case you're seeing this, I've seen it. There must be a very expensive billboard. Not so much. You won't, of late, you will not have seen many Penn billboards. They're very expensive in terms of how many you have to have for saturation. Like single billboards, not so much. Saturations a lot. And we've tended to think people don't buy healthcare from a billboard, so we've stayed away from it. NYU put that up. UT Southwestern runs a commercial on Sunday morning TV. No patient is gonna be driving up the exit to Penn Madison saying, oh, I have a schedule with my oncologist, but I'm gonna turn around and go 90, 90. Look at that solid. But we're in a talent war. Yeah. And I think they wanted all the Penn doctors to know they're by vision ranking, they're number one in the country. And I think that was actually the purpose of it, not patient, but talent-wise. But you'll now see it's a Penn Madison billboard. I saw that. Did you buy the rights forever? Not for a long time. I'm not going through that again. Just like I remember when the train station was changed to Penn Madison, that was a big deal. Renaming it to Penn Madison. Yeah. But first, I want to tell you what I think is a funny story. But second, SEPTA needs money. 9,000 Penn employees use that every day. So yeah, we got our name on the station, but it wasn't to get our name on the station, it was I was trying to help out and keep them going because so many of our employees are dependent on it. Especially at a time like this. And now it's especially they could use it. Yeah. It's struggling. But again, I don't think anybody said, oh, this is Penn Madison station, not University City. I should go to Penn Madison. But it was to help that. But Steve Casco at Jefferson, who's a great friend, was one of the first people to buy a station. So Market East is now Jefferson station. And I said, Steve, I'm not sure I'm following that. I said, most people from out of town who get off there, we're gonna think it's named after Thomas Jefferson and the Declaration of Independence. You're wrong, you're wrong, you're wrong. And he said, you were paid for it. I did. And he said, I said, we got Penn Station in New York. We got Penn Station in Baltimore. I didn't pay for any of them. Yeah. And then lastly, you've been CEO, I think during two Super Bowl wins. Do you see the causation? Yeah. What do you think? Do you think they were gonna make it to this last Super Bowl? I do. I do. I hope you're right. The past couple of games have not been. It's one or the other. It's gonna be a repeat of 2023. And they're gonna lose out for adversity shapes character. And they're gonna step up and figure it out. And as a fan, I'm counting on them to step up and figure it out. Did this city make you a fan or were you always kind of interested in it? No. We were nursed on Eagles. Bless the Red Sox for other reasons. But Sixers, Union, Phillies, Eagles, I mean, I checked the scores all the time. Watch what I could of the game last night when I wasn't falling asleep in my chair. Well, thank you so much. Thank you so much. Thanks for having me. I hope I didn't ramble on two. We know how busy your day is. So it even means more that you took the time. The story you share, I just never get to hear. And so I'm so happy that we have the opportunity to talk about it and to have people learn from it. And our listeners are gonna just learn so much and we're so appreciative. So I appreciate it. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. And thanks for hiring both of us. Ha ha.