Good afternoon everyone. Uh my name is Tyreek Glasco. I'm the executive director of Young Chances Foundation and I just want to welcome on uh to the huddle. This is a community conversation on men's mental health. Um I I'm going to introduce the panel but I want to give a little um foreground on what this event is about. When you hear today, you're going to probably hear me a lot, but when you hear me, think of the mental and emotional health of our community, specifically black men. We're going to talk about, you know, mental health, emotional health, but also the resources that are out there, trying to get rid of some of the stereotypes, um, changing some of the communication between not only us men, but in the community and having, uh, icons of sports hair to translate that not only from the work that they done, um, professionally, but some of the work that they're doing, uh, with their organizations, but also personally. Um, we have uh, Ean here. We also have Rodney, Dr. J and Brian Westbrook. And before I do want to give uh a thank you to uh Principal Josh here at Autumn Reed for opening up his doors today. Um definitely running the school and then making sure that we can have this venue especially in this uh community that's right here um is very uh important. So I just want to make sure that Mr. Anderson understands we appreciate um him who opened up the doors and and everything else. Um I'm going pass it off to our panelists and then we're going to get into the discussion. Good evening everyone. My name is Ean Hines. I am a father Philadelphia native and also I'm the president and founder of a nonprofit organization known as My Brother's Keeper Cares. I lost a younger brother a teeth to suicide and I've also struggled with my own mental health and I created an organization to try and help our community deal with their mental health and create spaces for young people to be able to get tools that they need moving forward to not only prevent suicide but also learn how to self-regulate, learn how to be peer support for one another and just make it make it through the city through a hard through a hard life in this city through what can be a hard life in this city. Thank you'all. Um, hello. Hello everyone. Uh, my name is Rodney Bab. I am the lead violence recovery specialist for Penn Medicine. I work with people that come into our trauma department with violent injuries, specifically gun injuries, um, gunshot wounds, [snorts] blunt assaults, dad wounds, and I support them bedside. So, once they come into the hospital, I meet them in the trauma bay, provide one-on-one uh, psycho education, some one-on-one counseling, and then I continue to follow them while they're inatient, connect them to resources. But once they're um outpatient, that's really where the real work step. And I uh follow these patients for about 6 months to a year. Um and just being a liazison from the hospital to the um you know, for the families, but also supporting them one-on-one as far as making sure they have therapy, uh making sure they're at their doctor's appointment and just providing the right resources for them to recover after their violent injury. >> So, I'm Julius Irving. uh [laughter] affectionately known as Dr. J. >> That is part of the story where Dr. Jay came from uh a long time ago in in middle school uh in uh in Long Island. Uh I started calling a buddy the professor. He started calling me the doctor and now we're still really great friends and you know we're in our middle 70s and uh we still are able to get away with that. the uh the the the reason that um that that I'm here is because, you know, we've created a a uh cordial and congenial uh situation with PinMed and uh we've been able to make some house calls in the community. We've gone out with a couple of the doctors uh to visit some patients who are getting home care and uh this is a little bit of a different twist than visiting the home care patients because uh we get a chance to hang out with Brian. Uh we get a chance to uh learn and uh and I have found that the best way for me to learn is to is to listen. And uh from a young uh stage of my life uh I somehow became a good listener and I guess cuz maybe my sister was talking all the time, my brother was talking all the time that I was that middle child and I be I became the good listener. So hopefully as an audience uh you guys will be able to hear something today uh that helps you and that you could take back uh to share with others uh your children, your siblings and uh and your neighbors. Thank you. And I'm uh Brian Westbrook, former Philadelphia Eagle uh for eight years. >> Birds. >> Go Birds. That's right. I um I went to Villanova University. So I I truly became a man here in Philadelphia. Um I also still get nervous. Every time I see Dr. Jay, say Dr. Jay's going to be there. Judith is going to be there. I get nervous sometimes cuz he's still the coolest man that you could possibly know. So that that doesn't change. But the reason why we're here today and and the reason why I'm here is very simple. I have a few companies that I run. I have affordable uh development and and home care real estate company that we we build affordable housing in the community. Um I have a uh engineering staffing company. We do staffing solutions and stuff. But most importantly, I run the Brian West Foundation as the founder and CEO. And our mission is simple. We want to serve our community. We want to empower them. We want to educate them. We want to them to embrace us. We want to show them and give them access to opportunities and access to jobs and things of that nature. And the question for us is always, what more can we do? How do we engage more young people? How do we make sure that we keep our young people off the street and keep their mind stimulated? And that falls right in line with mental health and all the things that we'll be talking about here tonight. Um, I'm super happy to be here, but it's these conversations that we have to have more of. There's these conversations that break down the stigma. When you have great men like these young men here, Dr. Jay, that can break down the walls and say, "It's okay to talk about your mental health. It's okay to lean on someone's shoulder and say, "I ain't got it today. Before we start, I'll tell this quick story." And this was this just happened this past weekend. Um I'm at a game and I see my boy Trey Thomas. Trey Thomas, 67, um left tackle, played in the league 15 years, 320 lbs. And so he gives me a hug. He bends down. He gives me a hug. I'm a small guy. And the first thing he said to me is, "Man, you all right?" I'm smiling. I'm having a great time. You know, we're having a good time at the tailgate. I'm like, "I'm straight, man. I'm good. And and he he took his big old hands and he put them on my shoulder. He said, "Nah, are you all right?" And I was like, "Uh, I think so. I thought I was, but it made me think a little bit deeper than than what the real conversation we were having was." And as men, as women as well, sometime we got to shake each other up and say, "You all right?" >> And that's what this conversation is about. And so I'm happy to be here. Um, and thank you all so much for being here as well. >> Thank you. >> [applause] >> Just yeah, we going to get into the open discussion. We have a couple questions from the icons, too. But like you hear the panel say to today is about opening up that conversation to making sure that everything is out in the open. We're going to get rid of the stereotypes. And before we begin, I see one of my OGs in the room, Senator Williams. And I and I really want to say this because this is not a political thing. We were sitting back and having a conversation and everyone talked about themselves and as I was riding up here there was a song on Mary Jay and it said if you look on my eyes and you see what I see you know things are a little different you know people may see the outside of you they may see some of the things that are getting posted they may see but the inside is what we are here to talk about today so um Brian Dr. today. You have any? >> So, as a uh last surviving member of immediate family, I like to meet new people. I like to uh have conversations uh with strangers, believe it or not. You know, even being who I am, I'm still approach approachable in in that regard. And and I enjoy it because, you know, I guess you're always looking for a void, you know, to be filled with something. So, so I got uh so many uh surrogate brothers and sisters and moms and dads, you know, out there and and it's kind of fun. It it keeps me It keeps me young. That's right. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> That's that's part of the community, you know, and and and Brian, you just talked about um growing up with those things that aren't normal and you know, you come from the same background. How do you how do y'all not make that normal, so to say? and I'm just listening to you for 30 years ago to some of the issues that we're still dealing with down in our community, especially as young men of not being cool or you know that trauma. How how are you dealing with that or you know changing how that's looked? >> Well, you know, even though I had both my parents um with me as a child and really throughout my life, you know, mental health was not something that we talked about. Um it wasn't something that we dealt with it. Unfortunately, when people died from suicide, oh well, he he had a problem instead of he had something that we could have addressed 20 years ago. Um two years ago, you guys are familiar with the XFL football league, right? So, I was the director of player engagement for the XFL a couple years ago. And one of the most important things to me was to let our players know that they had access to as much mental health work, the people that they possibly could engage with. Um, and it was important and I thought it was something that everybody would run to and jump to because I was like, listen, I ain't telling the coaches. I ain't talking to nobody else. This is between me and you. when I was in the NFL seems like forever ago. I I I u retired 14 years ago now. We just had this little doctor. I never really knew this guy. So in the training room, everyone's hanging out. There's this little guy just walking around. I'm like and I always was like, who's this little weird guy walking around and he was a mental health doctor and I I literally didn't know that until my last year in Philadelphia. I was there for eight years. Didn't know. And there were a lot of me men on our team talking to him and we but we weren't sharing it. It was just like I'm I'mma keep my mental health problem over here to myself and you keep yours to yourself because it was was something that you never really talked about. The crazy part that I think about now is that we had that in the locker room for millionaire grown men. And we have young people that are walking around amongst us today that need that help that don't realize that we have that those access to help and don't understand that they have people that have a vested interest of them being better. Um, and it's a sad reality for us. Um, and we wish this again, this is why we having a conversation so that hopefully we can go back into our communities and say, "Listen, there's someone that can help. And before we go past this step, let's get this mental health check just to make sure that we're all good." >> We're all good. >> Rodney Ean, you want to give a little back story on not only the work that y'all doing, but how that um impacts our community? >> Um, yeah. So, uh, as as I just said, I work with the gun violence survivors and, um, other survivors of violent injury at Pin Medicine and, um, not too long ago, as we all know, there was a mass shooting here in South Philly. Um, and basically, you know, mental health, everyone involved in that mass shooting, whether it was a person who was directly injured or nondirectly injured, is in had a mental health, I guess, problem at that time, whether it was anxiety, depression, um, just uh, just trying to figure out what's next steps. And I think that, you know, as a health system or as as people, as a community, um, it's not talked about as much. you know, we don't talk about, hey, this you're experiencing anxiety, you're experiencing PTSD. Um, but I think that as you know, more community members like these community members that I'm on a stage with, uh, community members that are doing the work with big organizations like Penn, Temple, um, as long as, you know, we come together and make it known to the community like, hey, this is what mental health is and this is how we can help address these situations. coming into the community after events like this happen, but also learning that, you know, there's uh preventable ways for these events can happen as well. So, you know, just know talking to the community about what mental health is, but also um identifying what is mental health cuz, you know, many people do believe that mental health is a bad thing. Uh mental health is only a suicide or depression. But no, mental health is everyday life. you know, whether that's you having anxiety getting up and going to work, whether that's you having difficulty um in school, in your everyday life, having someone to talk to is important. And um you know, it's it's the fact that as these two guys said, um they had the access to it, but not many of us out here has access to it or know that there is access to uh mental health resources out there, free free services as well. So, I'm a loss survivor, and being a lost survivor put me in a space where I had to deal with my brother's death in a a very hard way. It made me feel guilt from times when we had sibling robbery as a kid. And anybody out there who's ever lost somebody to suicide, it's a unique type of death because it causes people to think, "What could I have done to help someone?" Now, my years after my brother has died, I have a lot more experience. I'm not an expert. My experiences have equipped me with more information and encounters with people. But through it, I've learned that there are warning signs and things you can look at, but there's a lot of things we don't know exist. In my own crisis, in October 2018, I almost took my life. I had a plan to take my life. And that's someone who knew what it was like to lose someone and knew what the impact it had on my family and also knew how many people were looking at me as a sign of hope. And I still struggled. And I think it's important to realize like leaders can struggle and people who are advocates can struggle. There are people who have died by suicide. I remember years ago someone who was in charge of the psychology department at Penn. They died by suicide and on that same that was the week of suicide prevention week to be exact. And we also lost a pastor of a mega church I believe in California that same week. So people in position struggle but I didn't realize what resources were there. And my struggle introduced me to something called the employee assistance program. So like Brian was saying, something that was there as a resource. Many people have resources that your employer actually provides. And my employer at the time provided three free sessions for me to see a counselor. And that counselor has now been my counselor with a co-ay and with other payments for seven years now. So I'm able to get the sustained help that I need. Also, one thing I want to say before I move on, stigma in some spaces is real. I don't think that it's as real as it said it's real. When you create opportunities for people to talk, they they talk. When you create spaces for people have these conversations, they show up and they engage and they're vulnerable. And sometimes stigma, the word is used in a way that I don't believe is real, particularly for the black community. You give us a chance to speak, we're going to speak. And you give us a chance to be supported, we're going to accept that support, especially if it's coming from a place of trust and real care. And um just like to piggyback what he said about uh the stigma part, you know, um as we all the stigma is like black people, black men, they don't we don't use mental health. We don't want therapy. But that's absolutely a lie. Every time I go into a bedroom into the hospital and ask a patient, a young male um or just a man a man in general about do they want therapy, are they interested in psychology, are they interesting psychiatrist to come in and talk to them, they say yes. And you know that shows right there that that stigma is not a stigma no more. People want help but people just don't know how to ask for help or accept the help or don't know where to get the help from, >> you know. So we had a couple questions. Do you want to go first? >> No, you go. >> Okay, perfect. So, you know, we'll ask these these questions and certainly um you know the the wonder is always you know when did you begin your mental health journey in your life? the the question for a lot of young people is like, "Ah, that's something I could worry about later on." And and I'll later worry I'll worry about when I go to college. I worry about it when I'm finished high school. When did you guys start your mental health journey? >> Um, for me, I started when I was 18. Um, I transitioned from West Philly to Penn State. So, that whole situation was a big transition for me. Uh, but not only that, I was like one of the only black kids in a in a class of all white people. And during that time on top of that um there was a whole like the whole Trump running for office thing. So I was in the middle of like nowhere in the woods and there were just so much going on I was not used to. Um so I sought into find therapy for myself because um I was lost. You know I never I didn't have a mom or dad that went to college and navigated the system. Um you know and and I had a high school counselor but that's that's after high school. you know, they don't follow you into college. So, me, you know, entering college and figuring out I'm in the real world now and I need support. You know, my mentor isn't there anymore. Um, that was when I first started to receive help and um therapy and just other services for me. >> Do you think that being a little bit older now, do you wish that you had it started a little bit earlier? >> Yeah. >> Or you think that when you started perfect time, you're good there? >> No, no, no. Definitely early. I think early intervention and early access is the key for prevention. >> Yeah. >> Yes. EA. So, I started being more intentional about taking care of my mental health in 2018, but I was introduced to the conversation. I was a teenager. I have a quick story. When I was a teenager, I had a mentor who was a Air Force general. He also was a dermatologist. His name was Dr. Harold Pierce. And I borrowed his car without his permission while he went on the trip. [laughter] >> Welcome to the club. >> Yeah. He went on a trip to uh California. He had three cars. I took one of his cars for a trip when I just got my license and fate be it the way it was. I got into a car accident on my way to take the car back to his house. Somebody ran a red light and hit me. That's besides the point. Instead of like seeing what I did, he actually tried to get me therapy at that time when I was 17. And I remember feeling like that was the first time I ever heard about that, but I didn't actually engage in. He tried to get me to support and I love my mom, but my mom didn't really want that. in the home and that was the first time I was introduced to the conversation about therapy. But I also think that it's important to identify all of us deal with our mental health from the day we're born because all of us have mental health. Whether we're intentional about caring for it is a different conversation. But it took my crisis in 2018 to be more deliberate and realize like I really really need help. And it also became from people supporting me. One of my friends and brothers is in the audience, brother Eric Mars Jr. I'm sorry, Eric Mars Senior. and he's uh he's someone who came into my life at a time when I was just coming out of my crisis and showed me the way. So, it took some people actually helping me to stand and also it took some deliberate intention to stay in therapy and that started in 2018 for me. But I think that all of us have mental actually I know all of us have mental health. It's just as normal as our physical health and it needs to be defined properly so that people don't confuse mental illness and mental health. >> We all have mental health. >> Yeah. One of the things you heard you mention was you you were intentional about it. And so many things in our world, we just kind of fly by the seat of our pants. That's just kind of how we are sometimes. But when you're intentional about things, you actually get things done at the things happen because of that. Um, and it's so great to hear. I see these young people around here a little bit. And one of those important things and and Dr. Jay will probably telling I'll ask you, doc, when you became intentional about being one of the best basketball players in the world, what was those things that you did that that changed you from just being okay, average to one of the best ever? [clears throat] There's a there's a scale from 1 to 10. physical, mental, emotionally, spiritually. Rate yourself in all those categories. I say physical. Well, the 10 comes in cuz you know that's sports, right? Mental, you'd love to be a 10 emotionally, right? and uh physically, mentally, emotionally, and spiritually. And spiritually God's in your life and truly in your life. You want that to be a 10, too. So, so from the time I was introduced to that to the day, I tried to get tens across the board, you know, and that's like trying to master the game of golf. It ain't going to happen. cuz even the best in the world get cut and they are sent home on Saturday and Sunday some weeks. But um yeah, so so trying to trying to be a 10 it it's it's a long hard journey and it's uphill and uh everybody should feel that way. Everybody should feel that way. And and mental is included in there, but it really wasn't introduced as uh mental health. It was introduced as being mentally challenged to get educated, you know, get the most out of your educational process. This is this is this is your mental challenge. But we all need to, you know, look around us and look at one another the same way and say that we want all the people around us to be the complete package. That's that's what I was searching for cuz I used to call it the complete back package was being attend physically, mentally, emotionally, and spiritually. >> You got to be intent. You have to be intentional in sports and business world, but you also have to be intentional about your mental health and the things that you do to prepare yourself every single day. And that's super important. T one of the things that I think about because you're helping kids every single day. Um, but there are times where you become stressed, where you become overwhelmed with life. We all live in this world. I got three kids and every day I wake up like, man, >> these jokers right here. But what do you do when when life is just lifing as they say, overwhelm, stress? What are the things that you do personally to try to get you out of that mode? >> Um, so my my my grandom, my mom raised me. I go back home, you know, I pray. I sometimes listen to a soundtrack that can change how I'm feeling. Um, you know, gospel started, you know, my my upbringing. You know, sometimes I question my work, but the most important part was the love part. And it was the scripture uh Proverbs 3:5-6. It was trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean not on your own understanding. some people in here know where I'm coming from. So, I try to not question my journey because the work that I'm doing now, I try not to have those kids in those environments. Um, there's questions that's asked like, "How many of you know someone who's been shot and everybody raised their hand? How many of you have been next to someone who's been to jail and everybody raised their hand?" I don't want kids raising their hand in my organization. I want them to understand that there's resources, there's individuals who want to put better ingredients in their life. You know, you you talk about walking to school growing up 30 years ago. To this day, those are the images that we try to change cuz kids should not see balloons and teddy bears and needles and things on the ground and on and and on trees when that actually should be fresh fruit vegetables because these are the things that help our community especially us to prevent those things. You know, breakfast is the number one important meal of the day. And if you ain't eating, you ain't thinking. You know, critical thinking is part of what we need in our community. And to think that your mental health is not a part of those ingredients is what I try to do. You know, so I try to say I'm not there yet. You know, take a seat. You know, like what are you doing, Tyreek that is having you going too fast? You know, I got three daughters. I love them. You know, one of the daughters, my oldest daughter, um I had I watched her grow up on pictures in jail. You know, like the first day she went to school, her teeth came in, me calling and someone she had to accept my phone call. I don't want that. I don't want anybody to go through not seeing their family, their children, you know, experience positive environments and feelings. you know, mentally to me, that's why I go as hard as I can, not only for myself, for my community, because there's there's other people in our community who want those resources and don't have the table for it. >> Yeah. Is what about you? Overwhelm, stress, what what is the thing that grounds you, brings you back to the right mind? >> It's a combination of things. So, I often give this example to the young people I mentor. talk about the Dora the Explorer show. Anybody familiar with that? Dora had this backpack and in there it was a map. It was all these different things. So Dora knew what to pull out for whatever circumstance. So in my backpack I have journaling which I was introduced to through therapy and it's not something that is just for little girls to write about in the diary. It's something that everybody should engage in or can engage in. Uh journaling has helped me. Praying, absolutely. Crying, absolutely. Going for walks. I like to walk along Kelly Drive. Walking by the water just helps me. But even just reaching out to people. I struggled today. I struggled hours before this this platform. And I had to send out a group text message to the members of the board of my organization letting them know like, "Keep me in prayer. I'm not okay." And sometimes my schedule doesn't line up with where my mental and emotional health are. But just reaching out for support and remembering that I got over some of these things before. Um, I think there's something very important to know. We live in a different time where there's a lot of exposure to trauma. So, we see things more than we ever have ever in our lives. And the trauma impacts all of us, even if you're not directly impacted by a gunshot. Just hearing about it can make you afraid to go outside. So, the impact is on you. And we're living in a world where there's so much exposure to all types of trauma. And that trauma is impacting our mental and emotional well-being in a community where I believe a lot of black boys and men are carrying broken hearts. And the heartbreak can lead to a lot of really, really dangerous places. And it took me realizing I had a broken heart to get care. And I still carry a lot of that. But to get care and support and even recognize you have it. My first therapist told me, you can't conquer what you don't confront. You can't confront what you don't acknowledge. And you can't acknowledge what you don't see. He helped me to see. And now I'm realizing you can work back from seeing. Many of us are trying to work from a place of conquer, but you got to start from seeing, then acknowledge what it is and work your way back to confronting it and then work it back to either caring for or conquering it. And many broken hearts are starting to fight instead of seeing where they are, acknowledging where they are, confronting it, and caring for that broken heart. >> Well said. Well said. Repeat that one more time. >> You can't conquer what you don't acknowledge. I'm sorry. You can't conquer. You got me confused now. confront. You can't confront what you don't acknowledge. And you can't acknowledge what you don't see. And you can replace the word conquer with care because you don't have to fight everything. But some things are just meant to be responsible for. >> I love love that. I mean, that's >> 100% exactly what we all need to do. Um there's a young brother that just passed away this morning, committed suicide, played eight years in the NFL, eight or nine years in the NFL. He came in the year before me. Um played with the Cincinnati Bengals, young brother named Rudy Johnson. Um committed suicide. His family said he'd been struggling recently with some, you know, suicidal thoughts and just couldn't conquer it. Didn't have anyone to talk to. Didn't know how to confront it. Didn't realize who he needed to talk to. couldn't find a support. Um, Rodney, we all go through moments of stress, being overwhelmed. You deal with gunshot wounds and people in the hospital that have been unfortunately shot. Um, what are you telling these young people and just people in general while they're there about how they can handle mental health a little bit better and do and just move differently than they've been moving to be put themselves in those situations? >> Yeah. Um, so the first thing I do when I meet with them is, you know, make sure that they feel safe. Make sure they feel safe talking to me, making sure they feel safe in the hospital, uh, but also making sure they're safe when the time comes to the hospital. Um, but I'll also bring up the point of how their mental health will play an effect with their recovery. If you're not mentally well, doesn't matter how many times you're going to physical therapy. Doesn't matter. You can go to the doctors every day and they can say you're fine. But if your mental health isn't um are you if you aren't pri prioritizing that, then that will play an effect as far as like your physical health. And a lot of people don't realize that until it happens to them. Cuz if you're, you know, fighting the urge to get out of bed because you have PTSD and you're you have anxiety to go outside to go to the doctors for something small, you know, you're not going to be healthy physical. So, you have to be healthy mental to get to that physical aspect. [snorts] Um, and again, like as I said prior, a lot of the young men or just a lot of men in general wants therapy. Like I come to them and I make sure, you know, we have our psychologist with us and we provided them free therapy and they want it, you know. So again, it's just basically letting them know that they have access to it. They have access for free services um and services that it's not going to cost them, but that's going to also follow them while they're outpatient for a few months to, you know, get rid of PTSD because these things that we don't, you know, PTSD, depression, um anxiety, all this is curable, you know. Um, and I think if we have a way to pre-treat these things and pre- um have early access to these things, how we have access to, you know, uh, cancer before we have cancer, we we have doctor screenings, doc, we're doing so many screenings. um the same way we could do for mental health if doctors do these multiple screenings and ask the questions in uh terms where people understand because I think a barrier is as well is that when we are in these health systems the doctors are using these big words that we don't even know what they're saying you know so I think if you know the providers um can use words and use expressions that make us understand what's really going on but for us to understand that it's okay to say hey I'm having nightmares because of my injury. Hey, I felt overwhelmed because I know who hurt me and now they're still out to get me. Um, those small conversations can lead to something big which can help someone and their mental health. >> We can't be afraid to face truly what our fears are. Those things that >> that stress us out. And I'm going to ask Julius this because Gohead. I'm sorry. Go ahead. >> No. I was uh just thinking that when you're talking about face your fears, I mean, you know, football, big, strong guys, tough, you know, the physical presence, uh, is often so different than what's going on inside and whatever. And I know you've been in that locker room after games and you know when you win there's a big celebration and when you lose it's a little quieter. [laughter] My my thought was the uh what is real toughness, you know, and are you tough and strong because you can, you know, sit on something that somebody told you about or something that you become uh made aware of and u you just want to take it to the grave and now you don't hear people talk about that so much. Uh it's like, okay, let's let's put our laundry out, you know, on the on the racks and let's let's air it and share it and we're all going to be better because of that, >> you know. And it's kind of it's kind of hard because the society isn't about everybody uh financially being equal, intellectually being equal, uh spiritually being equal, but somehow we have to find a way of creating equal respect for one another. We we need to uh you know be genuine in our approach and I I mean I I know that there's a lot of things that I can't physically do that I used to do with ease and whatever. So it really ain't about that. My I don't I don't find my happiness in going out and lifting 250bs or whatever. I found my happiness in, you know, being around somebody who is thinking and who cares. And I know in the clutch, you going to be there for me cuz I'mma be there for you. I think I think that image right there is part of what we're here. And I'm going swing it back, but that generational conversation and that latch is gone. You know, it is important to hear that come from you, not only as the doctor, as the icon, but as a black man who been through those things. You know, to lean on someone because, you know, the the stereotype is we are tough. You know, we we don't need help. You know, that our mental health is cool and and we're not looking for those things. And to see someone, you know, who is seasoned, who've been through those things helps, you know, our work, you know, because it gives us credibility because regardless of how high you get or low you get, we still have the same issues. >> And um also, you know, for me, I would like to jump in and say like toughness, you know, that word like as as Dr. Jay was saying benching 250 like that's making you look tough but also being um a person and being vulnerable and saying I need help you know I need support um where can like asking questions to get the support and looking for the support for your mental health that's a that's toughness you know being able to tough it out and say okay I do need help okay I do need that mental health support where can I find this going out your way to even asking your doctors or speaking to your friends about it that shows uh some tough toughness right there cuz not everyone can do that, you know. >> You know, one of my favorite teammates and I one of my best friends and he was a mentor to me. Um Brian Dawkins, >> Hall of Famer, I was with him every single day. We prayed together every single day. Talked on the phone all night long, every night. And it wasn't until after his career, I spent eight years with this dude, right, that I found out he struggled with mental illness. I'm like, what you talking about? you're the toughest hard-nosed joker that I know. Knock everybody out, goes crazy, muscles, everything. I said, "What are you talking about? H how is this possible?" He was like, "No, I struggle with it every single day." He said, "I had to get in a routine of doing things a certain way so that I knew when I was going through those periods where I was struggling, I needed to talk to my mentor, my counselor, things like that." And as a younger man, this is 10, 15 years ago, I'm listen, I'm like, "What are you you talking about? you're the you're the strongest, toughest dude I know. And it just goes to show you that if you're not intentional, if you don't have a plan, if you don't have a mentor, you don't have somebody to lean on and say, "Hey, I'm going through something that I can't control by myself, then you're going to be in a bad spot." And the worst spot is to be when you on E. You got zero miles to go before you get to the gas station. Gas station's 20 miles away. That's the last time you That's the last place you want to be. And too often times as men and as women, we put ourselves in in a spot where we ain't got nothing left. And now I'm going through this crisis. Now I'm looking around like who I'm talking who I want to turn to. Brian Dawkins cuz he was an older mentor, a tough guy. He didn't have it as his best friend on the team. He didn't have anybody to talk to on the team. And sometimes it truly is the best of us. And I can only imagine uh Julius, you on a team with greats, >> Philadelphia greats, but NBA greats, but you were the man. And at some point, you had to feel the stress of carrying a basketball team, carrying the load for your household. And you have to wonder who the heck do you turn to? >> Yeah. And [clears throat] and luckily for me, uh some of my uh mentors uh became um mentors for all of their lives. They the the the first coach I had with the Salvation Army, I was a Salvation Army kid. First coach I had, a guy named Don Ryan, coached me. I was 12, he was 19. This guy, he's still alive. He's still a guardian angel to me because he was he was sent from heaven, you know, he took me off the streets. But Don was there. Uh Ray Wilson, uh another mentor. He happened to be my high school coach. He came to UMass my second year. Coached at UMass. and um you know he lived till he was 86 years old and he basically managed my office for me after I became a professional. So so I had people who I never looked at myself as being bigger than or better than in any way, shape or form cuz when we met, you know, I was a little snotty-nosed kid, [laughter] 12, 13 years old or whatever. So, so, uh, I still till the day he died, I called him Mr. Wilson. As I said, I was the last surviving member of the immediate family, but now I'm the head of the new families. And, you know, the head has to act accordingly and understand and then kind of pass the torch, you know. So, so with my sons and daughters and my grandchildren, you know, I'm I'm investing the time into into doing that. And then I got nieces and nephews as well, uh, who I'm trying to invest time into letting them do things the right way. >> I think it's is real important that, you know, is coming from y'all like that community aspect. I know that y'all talk about y'all families and how y'all provide even on different levels. Um, everyone doesn't have that structure family-wise, but that community person, that 19-year-old who was in the community that br you, that put you that put him you underneath his wing is important, too. Especially the trauma that goes on into our community and how we deal with that mental health. Having people who are respectable and credible who who know how to navigate that is strong. Um, when when Ronnie was talking about the resources, I was just thinking about how the the actual individual is hurt, but the family members go through some stuff. You know, the the children, the the mothers, the fathers, and making sure that, you know, that network is still taken care of is is definitely important. So, I'm I'm glad that we definitely having this conversation and seeing that it's not only the individuals, but that community network that gets that support, too. You know, one of the things that um I think is special, right? We're all here because Pin Medicine brought us here. We brought us all together for this conversation. And so, I guess the question is for us in the community, how do you think these health institutions really play a part in that? How do you think they, you know, with you have the side with the people, right? the the men, the women, the children, the teenagers, and then you have the the the health organizations that got to find a way to come together to to help solve some of these issues and maybe not solve, just deal with them, you know? What do you think organizations What do you guys think of organizations like Pin Medicine and what they're doing to try to at least get the people that need the help, the mental help, uh the help that they need? I'll speak to that. Uh so we have allies through University of Penn. Penn has a program called Penn Inspire and it's a suicide prevention initiative and they brought me on as a community adviser and also Eric Mar senior and they asked us for our input to what was going on in the communities that we were serving and they also show up to the spaces and the events that we create and they also help us when it comes to measuring our impact on the young people and the people that we serve in the community. They've shown up as allies and they've shown up in a way to not take and then our organization has been able to serve as a liaison between the community and the institutions and the institutions have also financially supported us and that speaks more than anything because sometimes we can say what we need but if you actually see what we need and you step in and say we'll meet that need then you're showing that you do care. But it took us I want to go back to the time that we were having a community event and our biggest struggle was just feeding people at our programs. it might cost $500 to get Hogy trade. And I said that to a doctor at Penn and the doctor actually asked me to draw up a proposal for something that was more significant and defined. And it wound up becoming $20,000 worth of support, but it took asking and having a conversation because sometimes people were in position where they want to be supported and they also want to be supportive. You know what I'm saying? But it takes conversations. And when we think of institutions, remember there's just people behind there. My father was a state representative for 16 17 years. And he always reminded me that he was an elected official, not a politician. It was the people who put them there. There's people behind politician roles. There's people behind doctor titles, behind anything. You all are people, you know, and sometimes people see our our title and they don't see that we're just people. But when you put people in position to be people, they'll serve and they'll show up, they'll partner. And I'm glad that Penn has done that for our community. >> I I I'll say, you know, my my relationship with Penn is a little different. Um I'm one of the the activists who who really it's about the people. Um Pen Pin Medicine, University of Penn in a community is not looked at as a partner. But I'm piggyback what he signs said like the individuals that are at pin is what makes the community move. Just like everyone may not love the Eagles, the Sixers, but they specific players that has that impact on their life. When I told my mom we was doing this event, she ain't really care about it. And then I was like, Dr. J going to be there. She was like, I'm going to be there. I was like, that's crazy. Right. So that is how I really try to approach the community and pin um one of the meetings uh was held in West Philadelphia and and I'm going to go back to the politician part and but also the people behind there. Um Senator Williams who is a politician but he doesn't sugarcoat it when it comes to to me. um he doesn't play both sides and he like listen you you with pen they data research you know grant money all that like what what's going on because this is what they did in Westfield they going to come down to South do what like what's up like young man chill you know because he knows I have the I just want to get out there but he said try to find something that pin can do for your community and I talked about raising my hand you know the the mental health the gunshots and just being a victim and it was another lady in a crowd was Sarah Solomon. You have to find individuals who did it right. I connected those um resources together and really started to use the challenges that why I was raising my hand from being a gunshot victim, not having fresh fruit in the community, not talking about mental health, not having sex to public health issues that are there and got into the pin injury. I mean the the community scholar program to put together my paperwork because if I want to be at the table to get those resources I have to have the ingredients to get us off and then right after that the consistency was here's pen. Hey we going to have this conversation t how do you think we can navigate that you know so being consistent not only with the community but with pen for them to really show their true colors you know show the individuals that are behind there doing that good work. Last week we did a um event with Isan about slow suicides, about the things that are not immediate factors into your death. You know, the lack of communication, the lack of support, the lack of having that conversation or safe space there um was definitely uh important. One of the um priority um issues that we were trying to address in our community. >> Rodney, can you repeat that question? I know I can't repeat the question. Um, we're just talking about institutions. How can institutions like Pin continue to support and help everything that you're doing? Obviously, you work there, but you know, how how can they continue to support and, you know, personally, I I'll say this. I'm just proud that they brought us here to have this conversation cuz these conversations ain't happening everywhere. >> That's that's just period, right? I see these two young brothers right here. And I How old are you guys? >> 21. 21 and 19. >> 19. My goodness. >> They're your sons. I would give anything to be 19 or 21. One more time. Um, but these conversations are important for you two young brothers for for an important reason. And I don't know your life situation and it really doesn't even matter. There has to be someone that you guys can talk to. There has to be someone. Sometime it's your friends. There are times where my boys who are all older than me and you know I I have made my money and I'm kind of the leader because I made a bunch of money but they all be like look you ain't doing that and that's it. Ain't no questions asked cuz those are the guys OGs whatever you want to call them. Those are the guys that are saying look this ain't right. This ain't the way we moving. Those are also the guys when I got trouble with my marriage with my my kids. the dude up the street. I'm like, "Hey, man. This the joke up the street starting to get on my nerves now. What do I need to do?" Go talk to him. Okay. All right. Do I bring the bat or not? He said, "No, don't bring the bat. Just walk up there and have a conversation with him like a grown man." Okay, I'll do that. And so, one thing that I I keep hearing, be intentional, find the resources, do the things, start early. And one of the questions I wanted to ask you guys, and this is actually really important, there's an early prevention. There's something that you can do before it gets to that emergency state. For me, I call my boys. Now, I tell you, my boys don't always have the best the best suggestions. >> Sometime the suggestions is, "All right, just go fight them." And I'm like, "Hey." But there's something that you guys do that that that grabs you a little bit before you go to that point where things get a little ugly and dark. >> Yeah. Um, communicate with people, your mentors. Like, that's the first and foremost. like um it depends on the situation, you know, like for you, you'll call your boys and they say go knock them out, but if you call your mentor, they'll get talk some sense to you not to knock them out, you know. So, that's one thing, but two, also being able to find out how to ground yourself, you know, whether that's going out for walks as as he was saying next to the water. >> Give us some examples of that. Walks. What are other examples? >> So, going out for walks, um exercising, um therapy is another good one. um finding things that makes you um happy. Whether that's finding a new hobby, you know, golfing, um you know, pottery, anything that's going to get you out that space of being dull, of being of having anxiety, finding something new that's going to uh bring joy to your life. >> Hey, I run to the dollar store a lot. Um the shopping is is one of the things I probably grab a milkshake. Um just really try to eat. But for real, um, really networking or calling some of the oldheads who've been through it. Um, one of the OGs, Maliki, walked in, um, a few months ago, I was snapping again, you know, this way. Well, this is how I communicate. And we were sitting at the bar and I was just telling about family, what should we call it? And one of the things that he did, he just listened. He was like, "Yeah." Mhm. Yeah. All right. what you going you know so finding that safe place not only for your organization but for yourself you know finding somewhere where you can go and snap you can go and be yourself to be like you know what I ain't having a good day today I don't want to do young chances no more I'm ready and it's like for what like you going to lose bro and that's the reality like I'm not going to win if I don't do it >> I've raised my hand too much for the losses you know, I'm I'm I don't want to go back and see my mom struggle, see my daughters getting raised on pictures again. That's not my answer. So, when I get to that point, because it it's it's times where you think you're not doing enough or you're you're taking them losses again when you're losing people in the community or a email or grant didn't come through because you know that this will have that impact. you know, I I have to trust in my Lord, you know, and lean out on my own understanding. Like, you have me here for a reason, you know, like I I have a bullet in my head, back leg, and arm. So, it's clearly not my time, you know, I have to start I start questioning my reasoning, you know, like you got them three girls, you know, like what what do you want to do to become a better person? And that's why I I think that having this conversation with men so the young men and the older can can grab another Tyreek, you know, can grab another young boy that's out there that may be at that point. You know, understanding my purpose and knowing [snorts] that I can't go back keeps me um together sometimes. >> One question I want to ask. >> Yeah. Go ahead. >> Yeah. I was was just thinking, you know, while listening that um [clears throat] there's there's generally not one solution for every problem. Uh a lot of it depends on your circumstances, who you are, uh what your focus is at that particular time. So I like when when when things occur, I I I kind of stick to the rule trying uh give myself multiple options here to to take care of this. And you know there's number one, number two is number three. And the the status is not related to the number. What what what is related uh to the number is that you have a choice and when someone comes to you for advice not just one thing you can tell them and they got to go do it or go to go do it you know when people come to me for advice I I look at the various options cuz I always have and say well you know here's an option A, here's option B, here's option C. And that is, I think, very important in life to adopt. And and if one doesn't work, there's still the second and third options for you to, you know, bring back into bring back into play. >> So, does that make sense to you? That makes perfect because for real having having options is not something that I was used to or my community was used to. Either you won or you fail, >> you know, but now I know that it's cool to take a step back, you know. I don't know if Isana was talking about the the elevator approach to the 12th floor and the basement. Sometimes we we always want to get to the 12th floor because just it's a perfect view, you know, but a lot of our emotions and a lot of the things that we really want to bring up there is in the basement. Our emotions is on that elevator. What floor are you on? A lot of us need to get to the lobby and bring those things together. And that's what I try to do. And if I see something going too far up on too many floors or I'm reaching down too much, showing myself I have a lot of options. And that's even in the community where it may not be the food, it may be the clothing, it may be a hot meal that those options are out there because it's not it shouldn't be just win or lose. It should be a choice. >> Can I add to that? So, um, piggybacking with what Doc was just saying too, going back to what I said about seeing and working back to conquering, you have to see where you are, who you are, and even when you are. cuz some of those things you're talking about with crisis, if it happens in the middle of the night, I might not have access to going for a walk at Kelly Drive, which is a good help for me. But 988 has helped me out. I've had to call 988 three times. I've called it twice this year. And 988, somebody on the end of the line answers and they give you psychological support immediately. So, that's something that's immediate. But then there's other times when prayer is the only thing that I have. And I got to take this back to a conversation that used to happen when it came to mental health. It was like a dismissal of faith. And I think that it was it was necessary because it needed to be intentional. Make sure we were getting real professional support. But it also can't eliminate faith because some of the professional support comes because of the faith you have. Like if you have you go for a walk, your your wellness, your physical wellness is a gift from God. Your relationships, all of those things. And then also if your faith informs you like mine does that all things work together for the good, then that means that this thing that is overwhelming me is going to it's going to wind up working out for me even though right now it's overwhelming and is really frustrating me. Um I had a moment where I was thinking about um I'm sorry I just got a little overwhelmed. I've been thinking about this thing I'm dealing with lately called mourning the living. I have a 17-year-old daughter who's one of the top students in the state. She's on her way to a Ivy League school and she's like, she really decent. But I didn't think about what it'll feel like when you grow apart from your child as a child grows into their own relationships and starts to become who they are. And it's got me not only mourning my daughter, but also looking back like, man, when I got 17 years old and went to temple, I probably broke my mom's heart by not calling as much and stuff like that. And these are things that I think I didn't know how to define it until I experienced it. And now I challenge people to think who's alive that you're mourning. And they're still here, but the dynamics of the relationships change. Who's older and their memory is going away, but they're still here, but the relationship looks different. It feels different. And I challenge people to think about those kind of things as you measure where you are, when you are, who you are, all of those types of things. And if when the young people, you talking about the 21-year-old and the 19-year-old, we need y'all. I had a gift from God this week where I was really overwhelmed thinking about my daughter and I called my son. My son is 20 and my son encouraged me and he encouraged me about things that I told him when he was a child and I needed that. So some of the things that we learn and we teach we needed because y'all are the future. You're the future leaders of the world. You're the future business leaders of the world, future fathers, grandfathers. One day y'all going to be changing some grown folks diapers and we're going to be those grown folks needing it. Right? So, we need the young people to learn. And I think that it's important as adults in the room to teach people to replace you. Teach somebody to do what you do. >> Because if you do that, you're creating a succession plan and you're doing things in a way that's not selfish, but it's more selfless. And you really are living out scripture and considering the interests of other people. The children are the future. It's not just song lyrics. They really are the future. And they're now. >> Absolutely. >> [applause] >> One of the things I saw this past weekend was um I'm watching the game. Actually, I was at the game. I saw it on social media. I saw AJ Brown walking into the game and his shirt said, "Check on your teammates." >> Right. And that was that was kind of deep cuz that's what we we all talking about how you deal with yourself, blah blah blah. But the question I'll ask Ean as well as Dr. Jay is what can we do as better teammates to make sure that we're checking on our teammates? What are those things? Is it just a regular checkup? Is it me calling you every other day? Is it me texting you? What are those things that you guys practice that that allows you to check on your teammates, the people that are in your circle, your boys, your friends, whoever those people are? So for me uh had a few favorite teammates. Uh the the one who has withtood the test of time is Steve Mix. Probably probably not the p first person you guys would think about, but Steve and I roommed together for six years when we played on the Sixers together. The irony of it is when I joined the 76ers, I took his job [laughter] cuz he the year before he was like an all-star playing that position and then he suddenly was playing behind me and he handled it real well. Handled it real well. Uh we we coached together in the uh big three, which is the basketball league that Ice Cube created. So for the last six years, he's been my assistant coach and my son Jules has been the second assistant. And um you know the connection from 1977 to now is multiple life lifetimes for most animals and also some humans. So Steve um it I call him Sky, you know, he calls me Doc. I call him Sky because he didn't jump that high. [laughter] He said, "We call you Sky because you don't." And that's the type of uh humor that we share. You know, it's it's personal. It's intimate. Um you know, he he he blessed me in life. He asked me to be his daughter's godfather, you know, uh who graduated from J Drexel who was a basketball player and so on and so forth. And um the uh so the communication piece I I mean I think about them every day. You know, I might we might be on the phone two or three times a month. >> Uh when we're when we're coaching in the big three, it's an everyday conversation and that's that's 10 weeks, but there's 52 weeks in a year. So those other 42 weeks, we just check in. We just check in with one another, make sure everybody's all right. And you know, we both had some stuff. I had a stent put in my heart. He had a he was riding his bike and had a car accident. So, he was laid up for a while. So, you got to know when those things happen to one of your guys or one of your friends or one of your family members. And you know, that's the thing that I think makes the difference. it it that that you are a phone call away or a flight away or a car drive away and uh but you're still there and you know I just wanted to cite that example since that was part of my 76er experience that would have never happened if I hadn't come and play for the 76ers >> for me just reaching out to people when they cross your mind like I know way too many people and I'm sure y'all do to reach out to everybody every day but when people cross my be intentional about making that call, shooting a text, and reaching out. And I have I have history of losing people that informs me that I need to do that. When my brother died by suicide, he texted, "I love you and I'm sorry." And I didn't know that he was saying goodbye. So that informed me in a way that I don't ever want that to happen again, but it did happen again. Not with suicide, but I lost a mentor who I didn't realize was suffering from cancer. Shelley Williams Leopart. She was an advocate for mental health and suicide prevention and a champion in this city and she was suffering and struggling with cancer and it took her life and I had her cross my mind and I didn't reach out and I feel I live with that regret now because she passed and by the time I realized that I didn't reach out or remembered I didn't reach out she was gone. So I try to make sure I reach out but also reach out to people you can trust and just reach out sometimes to express how you feel and give people a chance to show up for you. One of my my best friend, actually, not one of my my best friend, I trust him with my life and he trust me with his and it was birthed on something that was humiliating. When I was at temple, I we both had the same experience happened on different days where we were really really drunk and I threw up on his floor one night and cleaned it up. He cleaned it up and then one night he threw up on mine, I cleaned it up. Those are humiliating experiences, but it also was moments to like help somebody. And because of that, there's nothing I don't I'll put past him on when it comes to anything. And he also helped lead me to the Lord. So I trust him. You know what I mean? So trusting people that when you reach out, you can be supported is a huge thing. But also when people cross your mind, be intentional about saying something cuz you don't know when it's a smoke signal. And the final thing I'll say to that, I was suicidal many times in my life. But one of the times that sticks out to me, I remember saying to God, "If you want me here, have somebody call me." And literally 1 minute later, somebody called me and said, "You just were on my mind." And I didn't send out any smoke signals or anything. And this person lives in the Carolinas. And just randomly hit me up. And it brought me I pulled over my car and just cried. So you never know when somebody's on your heart or on your mind how crucial it is to just reach out. And not only just for you, but for them. You never know why. Even if it's a hard conversation or you expect it to be a lot, just listen. Some people just need to be heard. Yeah, you know, one of the best things and I don't know how how many people here have miss sports. I know Doc obviously has one of the best things and things that you miss the most. I mean, so you leave the game with a bunch of injuries, hopefully some money, hopefully. Um, and most importantly, your memories, right? And the thing that you miss the most is being in your 20s and being with your boys all day long just hanging out, going to practice, talking about each other, laughing and joking. And you miss that locker room experience. You miss just being around. Cuz now Donville lives in Arizona and my boys live down in Florida and he lives here. We got we come together a couple times a year. We play golf. We have some drinks, smoke cigars, and we leave, right? But we don't get that full experience the way that we used to for 17 weeks during the football season. And one of the things that as people, men and women, we have to create a locker room space where you feel safe like you guys have been mentioning that I can say, "Hey, this is going on in my household." And I know that you're not going to say nothing to anyone else. And and you can tell me the same thing. I'm not going to say anything else. And there are so many times that we don't feel comfortable. You just don't feel I don't want to tell him that. If I tell him that it's going on in my world, he he may use that against me, right? And then we do that enough and eventually now we're in a situation where we really need help. We don't have nobody to turn to. And so one of the things that I've just done just been intentional about is only surrounding myself with people that I care about, that I love, and I know care and love me. And maybe that's two people today, maybe tomorrow it's five. But those five people, if I got an issue, I got to go to them. Those the only people I'm talking to. I ain't trying to call my mother and hear her. I can't call my dad. My brother's younger than me. I ain't calling I'm calling my boys and hopefully they give me some decent advice. And sometimes it's mentors, sometime your boys, sometimes it's your teachers. Um, we we just implore you guys, especially young people, old people alike, older people alike, to find that group of people, that mentor, that show that you can lean on to say, "All right, I'm going through it and I just need someone to listen." And as a mentor, someone that they coming to, you have to be able to Doc says something early and I one of the things I see about Doc all the time reminds me of of of Mike Quick. smooth, good-looking brother, just every when he walking room, everybody notice, right? But he's always listening. He It ain't about his words. He's listening first and then going to give you an answer. He ain't going to overwhelm you with a bunch of words and all this other nonsense because he's been around and knows enough to be able to do that. But first, he's going to listen. And to be able to be that good friend, you got to be able to listen first. You got to be able to say, "All right, hold on. let me just sit back and let me hear what you got to say so I can address the problem being who both of y'all are and this this like what how do you picture pride to decide as your status you know to ask for that help you know cuz people would think that you are in a position or you get to a certain place in life that you you don't you're not going to ask for help. What how how do you how do y'all put your pride to the side? That's one of the challenges in our community that the image of them being strong, them being men or being in a certain situation that oh, I don't I don't have to because I'm him. I'm I'm How How do y'all address that to to reach out for that help? >> I would I would say that popularity is meaningless if people don't respect you. [snorts] Totally meaningless. it it's just it's not worth it. So when I say do they respect you? If somebody comes up and approaches him and he's with his children, his three children, he ain't got time for [laughter] that 15 seconds they want, that 5 seconds they want. This is his kids' time. And you have to establish that. I mean, if you become a public person, you got to establish that rule and stand stand by it and enforce it and and if people don't like it, that's on them, you know, cuz popularity is meaningless without respect. It It's so hard as a public figure to um set boundaries. It's so important. It's hard to do it because people don't always respect it. It also was hard to to ask for help. You know, I think as an athlete, many athletes go through what I describe is identity foreclosure, right? You are at the top of the world. You're the best athlete or one of the best 1500 athletes in the world, right? That's today. And tomorrow you get cut. Now you walk around as 5'7, 210bs, look like everybody else. and they like and you think that you're still the man and you're not anymore, right? So the day after you get cut, retire, I got cut and I was forced to retire. Um you walk around just like everybody else and people treat you like everybody else, right? When your phone calls were getting returned instantly. Now you may take a week to get those the return phone call back. life changes fast and you start looking at yourself like hold on I'm not the same person that I was and you start to wonder these these mental games start playing you like hold on time out if I don't have this the thing I worked hard for what do I have left >> you start looking around you start looking at your friends a little different like well hold on did they like me because of the money or they like me because they my friends these young ladies are they here because of that or they here because of this and so you start thinking you start and and I promise you I went through and I was after I retired, I didn't meet my wife for a couple years. So, I went through the world just living good and bad times. And um that's a scary time for a young man that has money, recognition, and you're trying to figure out life. And I can't imagine doing it without the support that I had. But still, you wonder who the heck do I turn to? And when I turn to him, do I tell him the whole story or just give him the quick highlights and without giving real details, >> made it through. My wife was a big support and helped me, you know, mightily through that process. But it's hard for a lot of people. I don't know if you guys remember this guy named Junior Sea. >> One of the best linebackers in the NFL. Nasty, physical, strong, tough. played in the NFL for I want to say 22 years. He was retired for one year. Shot himself with a shotgun in the chest. Couldn't take it. He walked around as the baddest man on the planet for 22 years. >> And then life caught up to him. He didn't have the different avenues to decompress whatever he was going through. Didn't have the right person to talk to. We all have to find that. And it's it's hard for professional athletes. It's hard for people that are waking up tomorrow morning and got to go to work from 5:00 a.m. to 5:00 pm. It's even harder, right? And we all have to find that answer. >> Amen. >> I know that you know we we we are going to um wrap up soon. This is conversation keep going on all all day. But one of the things that my mentor told me is you keep what you have by giving away. and that was Terry Carpenter. Um, I'm going to give away that therapy is cool. You can go, you can talk, you can get the help. Um, it's not okay to not address your issues. Um, as the leader of Young Chances Foundation, one of the things that I try to do is be that example. You know, trying to show and bring those things to the table that we're not going to talk about before it's too late. Um, I wouldn't be here without my community because they understand not only what I'm doing today, but my family, what I've been through. Um, and that's the what I mean by that generational connection of making sure that the yesterdays understand us, you know, and we can provide that for the tomorrow. So, how do we as a community normalize this? How do we make this? And I'm just asking um Brian and Doc because I know that y'all have your organizations. How can we consistently make this cool or normal in our communities? >> Well, one of the things we do with my foundation um is we're always talking about it. I'm always grabbing the lure of people like what you need, how can I help you? What's the things that's on your mind? And the conversations conversations like this change lives. I hope that you two young brothers leave here, you like, you know what, I can do better. Let me talk to my homeboy about this. Let me talk to my friend about that. Let me talk to my girlfriend. Whatever the situation may be. That's how things spread. That's how things become viral. That's how that's how the help that's how we help communities. That's how we change communities. We got to continue the conversation. And we can't be afraid to say, "I need help." If we're not afraid to say that, that's the start. and then hopefully your friends that are good enough around you could find you helped somewhere. That's the hope. So what he what he said about viral I think it's important because uh the things that we believe and what we're creating here you know with with the with this time together you know when it when it gets cut up and edited or whatever there might be some gems in there that a person who is a social media nut or whatever can get a chance to hear and get a chance to And uh so so that's something that hasn't always been around, but it ain't going nowhere. And you know, and it's got a little twinge of AI in there, too. So you're going to get stuff coming on your phone that you're not even asking for. But this is the world that we live in now. >> And uh you know, my point was it is a different society. It's a different world. It's a different way of communicating. and but it's a a better it's a heightened way of communicating and and and to gain that understanding you just got to use those channels and uh be thankful for them >> I would say u also understanding boundaries when we speak of boundaries they're often spoken in a way to leave people out but they also are meant to keep the people within those boundaries protected and cared for and I would encourage people to look who's within your immediate sphere of influence and like help them. We have a nonprofit organization that serves thousands of people around the country in some capacity, but we started off very small. We started off just having community conversations at local libraries, which anybody can do. The library allow you to use their community rooms free of charge. And we started off having community conversations at a library, seven people. And now when we have events, and this is not bragging on our impact, but they grow. We now have hundreds of people in attendance when we put together things and we're able to have a bigger impact. So, I encourage people to do the smallest thing that you can do. If you know a young person, talk to them. I know how to play chess because a teacher who was not my teacher stopped me in the hallway at West Philadelphia High and asked me to be on the chess team. And then through that, he taught me how to debate and how to be in mock trial. So, I learned those things from somebody who just took time to have a regular conversation, somebody that you see all the time. I mean, this is something I gained from Sunny Hill, too. I was his mailman. And Sunny Hill used to pull me to the side and just He could talk, though. But Sunny Hill would just pull me to the side and just talk to me and tell me things and encourage me. And somebody out there, you know, somebody you walk by every day and you could talk to them. And you may change the course of their lives. And you also may impact your life, their life and yours because that young person who may wind up going down a different path can be somebody that you influence right now and to change their path and change your whole community by doing so. The final thing I want to say is that mental health is directly connected to spirituality. And if you think that it's not, and this is based on something that's even scripture, the Bible tells us that we're transformed by the renewing of our mind. So that's your mental health. And also as a man thinks so is he. So that's also your mental health. So you can't separate the two because you can't actually even believe in a certain way if your mind is not activated and healthy in a certain way. So I encourage everybody to have a balance. Take everything that you heard up here today is not something that's absolute but something that you can pull from as a buffet. One of the things that I never liked about I know Wendy Williams is suffering but I never liked on her show how people would come up at the end of the show and say ask Wendy and they'd be like Wendy I've been married for 44 years and he ain't take the trash out last night and she tell them get a divorce and it's like this is somebody who doesn't know your experience and you're taking what they say is the gospel. We don't know any of your experiences but what we're offering is hope and solutions that we know have worked or could work. Take those take those back to God. Take those back to your family. Ask yourself the questions. Where am I? Who am I? What am I? When am I? All of those things. And from there, work your way back to getting the care and support you need so you can be a model citizen and show up for yourself. And please invest in the lives of young people. They need it. I've seen young people through our chess and golf program transform. We mentor kids how to play chess and golf. And it's so decent how a kid who never picked up a golf club falls in love with it and doesn't want to leave the driving range. Or kids actually get frustrated playing chess because that's a good thing because that means that they know that they could think better and you're seeing them self-regulate, learn how to be peer support for one another and just stay in safe spaces. Thank you. >> Well, certainly wanted to thank everybody for being here. It was an amazing evening. Um I I think these young men um have been an inspiration to to both Doc and I. Doc has continues to be in inspiration to us all. Um continue to reach out in your community. Thank you so much to Pin Medicine. You guys have been amazing bringing us all together and now we just have to continue to work. Like that's the best part. Now we have an opportunity to continue to work and that starts tonight. Thank you guys so much.