My favorite part of my job is taking care of patients and being there at the bedside. The best part of my job: Probably what initially attracted me to medicine, and that's taking care of patients. That's my favorite part of it, is to get to know the people. I love seeing them back after their surgery. I love to hear about their successes. It sounds cliché, but I want to help people. It brings me a lot of joy to see my patients navigate a very complex health system. Every day I go to work, I don't know what I'm going to encounter. It can be a puzzle, it can be routine, it can be exhausting, it can be exhilarating. To me, the best part of the job is the teamwork. I consider every patient to really be a part of that team. I love when I have a patient who comes in and I’m not the first person they saw, but I'm the first person who told them that there's something we can do about it. Every operation is different. The more creative you are, the more innovative you are, the more you fit within the field. Just the continuous fascination about finding something that you don't know, and trying to work towards that, and knowing that doing all this work will somehow change a patient's life is motivating. I have a very unique opportunity to treat people in their most vulnerable state. There's really nothing quite like being able to take someone through some of the most stressful times in their life, knowing that you're going to get them through it to the other side. When I have a patient who hasn't been able to walk, and you get them out of a wheelchair, there's really nothing more rewarding than that, and it's such an honor and a privilege to get to do it. To have someone thank you for something that you did for them, it's kind of an immeasurable amount of gratitude. Every time that a patient walks through the door feeling good, it's like I'm watching my son take his steps for the first time. It's that level of heartwarming feeling that I get. To be able to offer somebody that has been told, “This can't be done.” To offer them something and have them come back and say, “Listen, I'm really happy with how this went, and I've really regained control of my life.” I mean, I think that is probably the best thing.