The flu shot. It's your best line of defense against catching the flu, but many people avoid it at all costs due to some common misconceptions. I'm Dr. Lori Noble from Penn Medicine, and I'm here to separate flu shot facts... from fiction. Myth number 1: The flu shot will give you the flu. This is probably the biggest misconception out there about flu shots... and it's 100% fiction! cannot give you the flu. It's that simple. Flu vaccines are made with an inactivated flu virus that cannot cause the illness. What it will do, is help your body develop antibodies that will ward off the influenza virus. Myth number 2: starts working right away. Unfortunately, this one is fiction. It normally takes about two weeks for the flu shot to become completely effective. So it's important to remember that during those two weeks, you are still susceptible to contracting the flu. Here at Penn, we suggest getting your flu shot early in the season to give yourself the best shot of fending off the virus. Myth number 3: People with egg allergies can't get vaccinated for the flu. Although it's based on some good information, this is actually fiction! Some people who are allergic to eggs may skip their flu shot for fear that they might have an adverse reaction. And that's because some flu vaccines are typically grown in hen eggs and can therefore contain egg proteins in the vaccine. The good news is, there's now a flu shot that's made free of egg that can be administered to people age 18 and older. So egg allergies or not, we've got you covered once flu season rolls around. When it comes to flu shots, the most important thing to remember is that the flu virus is ever-changing, so even if you got your shot last year, you'll need to get it again this year to protect yourself from the newest forms of the virus. If you would like to get your flu shot, or are experiencing flu-like symptoms, visit your primary care provider. To learn more about Penn Primary Care, visit our website and stay healthy out there!