(bright music) - [Narrator] The treatment of AERD has evolved significantly over the years. Before 1980, the only AERD treatment available was oral corticosteroids. However, long-term use resulted in many serious side effects. Many patients turned to surgery to get temporary relief, only to have their polyps quickly regrow unless they returned to oral corticosteroids. In the early 1980's, researchers discovered that patients could be desensitized to Aspirin, whereby, they would no longer react to Aspirin or NSAIDs, as long as they continue to take Aspirin after the desensitization procedure. Soon after, they noted that AERD patients who had been desensitized were having better outcomes. After many years of research, numerous studies have confirmed that a complete sinus surgery following by aspirin desensitization is the most effective treatment for reducing the regrowth of new polyps and managing other AERD symptoms. Optimal treatment for patients with AERD involves seamless coordination between the sinus surgeon and the allergist performing the aspirin desensitization, which is how we've designed treatment at the Penn AERD Center. The first step is to ensure the sinuses are completely clear. This involves what's known as a complete endoscopic sinus surgery where all eight sinuses are cleared of any polyps. It is important to have your surgery performed by a physician with extensive AERD experience, as it is one of the most severe forms of nasal polyposis. A thorough clean out including removal of all polyps along the skull base and frontal sinus is needed in order to give the best results with aspirin desensitization. After the sinuses have been cleared, aspirin desensitization can begin. Aspirin desensitization consists of introducing gradually increasing doses of aspirin. First, with an NSAID nasal spray and then with oral aspirin. The procedure usually takes two consecutive outpatient days to complete safely. It is performed in a controlled medical environment to be able to treat any symptoms experienced during desensitization. Even if you previously had severe reactions to aspirin or NSAIDs, aspirin desensitization can be performed safely. Throughout the procedure, your doctor will be continuously monitoring your condition and a nurse will be with you the entire time. After desensitization, you'll take a full adult daily dose of aspirin to remain desensitized. The process appears to be the optimal treatment plan for patients with AERD, frequently resulting in dramatic reduction of symptoms and improved quality of life in the vast majority of patients. Benefits usually include decreased nasal congestion, no regrowth of nasal polyps, less medication, especially oral corticosteroids like prednisone to control polyps and asthma, no further sinus surgeries, reduced asthma attacks, less sinus infections, less antibiotics, improved sense of smell, improved tolerance to alcohol, and improved quality of life. (bright music)