Welcome. Today we're talking about the latest treatment options and procedures available at the Penn Medicine Spine Center. My guests in this panel discussion are Dr. Michael Hottie, an assistant professor of physical medicine and rehabilitation at Penn Medicine and Dr. Arthur Kit. He's an assistant professor of clinical anesthesiology and critical care medicine at Penn Medicine. Gentlemen, thank you so much for joining us today. Dr. Hottie, I'd like to start with you. When would you advise primary care providers to refer their patients when they're suffering from back and neck issues? You know, most acute back pain typically will resolve on its own in a few weeks. Primary care doctors can usually start the work up in the office and getting them some exercises and over-the-counter anti-inflammatories typically are helpful. But if the pain persists beyond several weeks or if they have any, you know, new onset neurologic deficit or if the pain is very significant or severe, then they can come see us even sooner. Dr. Kit, as an anesthesiologist, tell us a little bit about your field and pain management because it's really a burgeoning field right now. I'm trained as a operating room anesthesiologist first and then trained an extra year doing a fellowship in pain management. And this includes various aspects of it including medication management, inpatient management of patients who have poorly controlled pain as well as outpatient pain procedures. The first modality that we like to utilize in pain management is conservative treatment with physical therapy and medication management. Once patients have failed those, we consider interventional pain procedures. This includes epidural injections, different types of nerve blocks and nerve ablations uh just depending on the patient's source of pain. what's happening in the field of pain right now. It's actually quite complicated. As we all know, there's a lot of issues over the last few years with increasing rates of opioid related overdoses and deaths. So, our field has really pushed to decrease the number of people who are prescribed opioids and for those who are decrease the doses of opioids prescribed for those patients. So it presents a challenge for us in terms of finding alternative ways to treat patients who have poorly controlled pain. Tell us a little bit about the Penn Spine Center and what you're doing there that's unique. My base training is in physical medicine and rehab and prior to that it was uh I was an athletic trainer working with athletes in and acute sports injuries. And so uh myself and Dr. Kit focus on the non-operative management side of things. And so when I see uh a new patient coming to me for any variety of muscularkeeletal neurologic pain complaint, you know, I tend to go to my roots as a sort of muscularkeeletal medicine and physical therapy-minded person. And I I work a lot with patients on their posture, their ergonomics, their lifestyle modifications and things like that as a as a firstline means of of managing their pain. And then if those basic maneuvers and things don't succeed in in alleviating or at least substantially managing their pain, the benefit of the Penn Spine Center is that we have multiple specialties that work together and collaboratively along the spectrum of of treatment options. If these things are are failing, that's when we will talk about options like steroid injections or nerve blocks or ablasions and we'll assess patients for those first and foremost through, you know, history and physical exam. and then select imaging modalities and then potentially uh those interventions based on you know the accumulation there. And if all of these things aren't uh still managing them or if there's indication for it in the spine center we also have access to and collaborate with the surgeons and so we can help to direct these patients to the appropriate surgeon or surgical subsp specialists to to help with their their issues thereafter. Dr. Dr. Hottie with the Penn Medicine Spine Center. What are you seeing as far as results from patients using all these various modalities? Sure. So, you know, like most things in medicine is a bit varied and depending on the presentation of the patient, certain people will respond better to those modalities than others. But in general, I do think that the physical modalities and and those things are sort of the mainstay and especially in terms of posture, ergonomics, mechanics, alignment, symmetry, you know, the manual therapies and whatnot are a very good adjant to medication management to the interventions to potentially surgery and having had surgery does not preclude you from any of the other options down the road. I think the most important thing again is having the proper diagnosis and the proper patient selection makes the key as to whether or not somebody will or will not benefit from any one of these modalities be them invasive or or non-invasive. Dr. Kip, tell us just a little bit more about some of the injection procedures that you're able to offer that sets you apart. When we try to do procedures for discogenic disease, it involves doing things like epidural injections that are fllororoscopically guided, which we do in a procedure suite or an operating room. And we do them in a wake patients and we are very careful to talk them through the procedure. And typically if they're to see relief from pain, they are to see relief within the few days after the procedures. We do these procedures in the cervical spine, the thoracic spine and the lumbar spine. And we do various other procedures. We have these facet joints throughout our spine as well that are common sources of pain. There are different nerve blocks and and nerve ablations that we do for people who we believe have facet mediated pain in the neck, midback or low back. Dr. Hottie, what would you like other providers to take away from this segment and when you feel it's important that they refer to the spine center at Penn Medicine? Sure. So, you know, first of all, we're here to help. Anything we can do to help your patients get better, that's what we're here to for, that's what we want to do. You know, again, most of the time an acute issue aside from acute neurologic complications will tend to get better uh with conservative care. If they're not, then we're certainly here to help. Or even if you know the primary care doctor is overwhelmed with other patients and other responsibilities and just wants a second eye or or an expert opinion on things, you know, we're here to help. Dr. Kit, what would you like to leave other providers with as far as the field of pain management at the Penn Medicine Spine Center? I don't think that there's any one specific scenario in which patients should be referred to us. Like Dr. Ki mentioned, we're really here to help with any questions or in any situations. So even if a patient has yet to have any imaging or undergo conservative treatment with physical therapy, we've all seen these patients who just have an acute onset of low back or neck pain that is just so debilitating and severe. So we're re we're really experienced with taking care of all sorts of different types of pain as well. not just spine related pain but various different types of pain including joint pain or we often treat patients who have other muscularkeeletal disease like fibromyalgia. So it's really a comprehensive pain center where we have a number of specialists who are all working together to try and maximize the brain power that we have and the procedural skill and knowledge that we have under one roof. And it's really a place where people who have pain of any sort are welcome. Thank you gentlemen for joining us today and sharing your expertise and telling us all about the comprehensive multidisciplinary approach to back and neck issues that so many people suffer from. Thank you again. And that wraps up this episode from the experts at Penn Medicine. To refer your patient to a specialist at the Penn Medicine Spine Center, please visit our website at penmed.org/refer or you can call 877-937P for more information and to get connected with one of our providers. Thanks for listening. I'm Melanie Cole.