- The most common condition that we treat in the skull base is what's called an acoustic neuroma. That's a tumor that typically presents with symptoms of hearing loss, ringing noise in the ears, pressure, fullness, sometimes dizziness. - Many people, when they're given that diagnosis, are very anxious, understandably, because they're told they have a tumor in their head. The goal is to make sure that the most concerning aspects for the patient are addressed and really letting people take a broader view of what's going on and really assess all of their options, which generally puts people's minds at ease a little bit. - So, an acoustic neuroma will grow in the internal auditory canal and then grow out towards the brainstem. We can deal with these tumors in one of three ways. One is do nothing and just watch it, because a lot of these tumors, at least half of them, probably won't grow once they're diagnosed. If a tumor is growing, it's causing more hearing loss, causing other symptoms, such as the facial pain and those type of things, or it's a bigger tumor, then we're going to recommend treatment. Either radiation, to control the growth of the tumor, or surgery, to go in and remove the tumor. - The goal of gamma knife radiosurgery, or one time radiation treatment, is really to stop tumor growth. The treatment has a very low impact on the patient's life. They don't have to stay in the hospital, they go home the same day, and generally it's fairly well tolerated. - The tumor, however, does not go away. So if somebody is having significant symptoms from the tumor, then radiation may not be the best option. The other option is to remove the tumor and do it safely. These tumors are complex because of their location, and where they sit, intricately intertwined with nerves that go to your vision, to your eye, nerves that go to your hearing or to your face. And fortunately, I can actually take this tumor off, and save the acoustic nerve and the facial nerve, and the surrounding nerves. - This is nice because we're perfectly centered, tumor's right there. - Tumor Glow is a technology that's been trademarked here at Penn, and it's a wonderful technique that we have been using for finding residual tumor, finding tumor at the margins. This has been a really fruitful area, not only for me, but I can see it in all of cancer surgery. - If you don't have a team, doing a lot of these tumors, a lot of their time, patients will not have good results. You can't treat these one a month. You need somebody who's doing this every week, to develop the technical skills, expertise, and, most importantly, judgment about how to deal with these.