University City Hospitality Coalition is a group of different organizations that work together to serve people who are underresourced and we as the medical clinic help provide free health care and medications to that population. UCH is run by med students and we primarily serve within the West Philly community. Our patient population consists of people who are experiencing unhousing as well as people who don't have access to care like people who lack insurance or are underinsured. UC offers meal services throughout the week. The medical clinic exists there on Wednesdays and we'll go table to table and just like introduce ourselves, say, "Hi, we're the medical clinic. If you're having any issues, we'd love to see you. Please come on by and like check in with us." They come up if they want to see the doctor. We also have a pharmacy that's staffed every week. >> We'll see everything from wounds that have been unmanaged, people who have asthma, high blood pressure, high blood sugar, lots of things that can be addressed if treated early on, but just need that access to medical care to prevent it from getting worse. >> I'm Aiden. I'm a MDHD student. >> It used to just be a general medical clinic. This year, we've integrated physical medicine and rehabilitation. We have an eye clinic for people that want eyeglasses. We're beginning to integrate a dermatology clinic. We also have a dental clinic coming in sometimes. >> When we have the specialists, you often see patients get like really excited because that's something that's like not always available to them to have that kind of opportunity. So accessible is like a big deal. >> We asked them if they've seen doctors for the conditions that they're coming to us with and most of them say no. They're too afraid of the build and they're just not really sure how to navigate the health care system. >> It's a safe haven. They come after school or work, make sure that we get the same services that we have to pay for for they really look out for us. >> Having the support of Penn Medicine and also getting funding through the Pen Cares grant is definitely so important to our clinic. >> We provide all our medications for free for patients. That's probably 80% of our costs. >> There's undergrads that are present at the medical clinic who supply vitamins, sanitary products, menstrual products, things like toothbrushes and toothpaste. Those are all things that are made possible by the CARES grant. >> We're able to fill in some of those gaps in care that inevitably exist in the healthcare system we have today. >> It's just easier because we know they here.