Welcome everyone to the pen primary care podcast. I'm your host Dr. Kendall Williams. Headaches are very common in primary care and very confusing because we don't fully understand why they come on, but they can be disabling for many patients and sorting through the best ways to both diagnose the type of headache you're dealing with and also to treat it is increasingly complicated. We have a lot of new medications for migraines in particular that are now available for us to use and I think many of us would enjoy a primer on how to use those medications. So in order to accomplish that I asked two experts at Penn to come on the podcast to talk about that. So Dr. Siha Oogu is the director of the headache division at Penn. She's the chief of the headache and facial pain division in the department of neurology and she is the director of the headache and facial pain fellowship at Penn Siha. Thank you so much for coming on. Thank you for inviting. It's excited to be here. Dr. Eric Kaiser comes at headache from a different perspective. He's an MD PhD. He is the co-director of the fellowship of the headache fellowship at Penn and his focuses on research as well as the clinical side as well. Eric, thanks for coming. Thanks so much for having us. It's absolute pleasure. So, you know, I think the focus of this will primarily be on some of the newer medications, particularly for migraine, because that's what we're hearing about. We're seeing advertised on TV. If we're not prescribing them ourselves, our patients are coming in on them. And for those of us who were trained in more of the tripan era, which would be me, these are kind of new and we're not sure how to manage them. So I definitely want to make sure we get to all that. But we wanted to start today to just talk about the various categories of headache, how we should think about them in primary care and then go into migraines more specifically. So Saniha, I'm going to start with you. I mean when I think about a headache, patient comes in to see me and has a headache complaint. The first thing I'm thinking is is it secondary to something else, right? Do they have some other aspect of their care? Do they have, you know, patients are always worried about brain tumors and other things, carbon monoxide poisoning, things that can cause a headache or sinus headache, other things? And then if that's not it, then I focus on sort of what the primary headache categories. But Saniha, is that how you start out with this? Correct. Yes, that's the most important part. So when we see a patient with headache the first thing we think about is this a primary versus a secondary headache disorder and the first question is is this a new onset headache or this is a progression of a ongoing headache for a while. If this is a new headache disorder then we look into the other demographics of the patient. So if this is an elderly patient new onset headache then we have to focus on cerebravascular disease tumor. If this is a patient with some immune deficiency then maybe menitis and syphilitis. If this is a patient who is pregnant then we have to think about preeclampsia ven sinus trombosis. And when it comes to primary headache disorder it's also important these demographics like elderly patient they can have primary headache disorders like hypnic headache which we don't see on the younger patients. And if these are then we move into the headache characteristics. Is this a sidelock headache or it's a shifting headache? We like unilateral shifting headache for migraine diagnosis. Whereas if this is a sight locked headache that it's not shifting, it's always on one side. Then we ask about the autonomic symptoms to consider trigeminal autonomic sephylgas like cluster headache or paroxismal hemocrania. So then we move into the associated other associated symptoms. So for migraine what we like is headache started around puberty and then progressively changed throughout the years and for some reasons with the change in the life that it became more chronic. We like to be able to say what caused the chronicity. If it was a life-changing event, it was a hormonal changes, patient got pregnant, patient went through menopause and then it became chronic, then we can focus on the chronic migraine treatment. So I wanted to go back to this sidedness that you referenced. So if it's locked onto one side, you think about trigeminal neuralgia and hemranial headaches, but I gather migraines can be on both sides, right? Correct. So for migraine, it should be unilateral shifting. Rarely migraine can be sidelocked. But if a person presents with a side locked headache, it's always on one side. We first have to rule out secondary causes and we have to think about trigeminal autonomic sephalgias. This trigeminal autonomic sephalgia is the big title of this group of headaches. There are three of them. The cluster headache, paroxismal hemocrania and then we have sancta based on the duration of the headaches and then some other characteristic we differentiate in those group. Would trigeminal neuralgia be in that category or is that a separate? Trigeminal neuralgia is separate. It's more like facial pain. We call this trigeminal autonomic sephyl mostly pain around the eye and temple area we call them headache disorders. Sometimes patients they show up in the ofthmology clinic with the eye pain. But if the pain is around the eye and temporal area we call it headache. If there is no primary of themological disease, trigeminal neuralgia are more like a facial pain on the V2 V3 distribution of the trigeminal nerve whereas trigeminal autonomic sephalgia is mostly V1 of branch distribution. That's very interesting. So you mentioned one of the three is cluster headaches which is the one I'm more familiar with. My understanding is cluster headaches have the name because they come in a cluster where you have them for a few weeks. it's quite severe and then you might not have them for months or even years and then it come back. Do those other headaches in that category share that same characteristic or are they different? There are differences. So all the trajeal autonomic sephalgia they are sidelocked headache with autonomic symptoms. Autonomic symptoms are tearing of the eye, redness of the eye, tosses, maybe swelling of the face, sometimes dullness sensation on the ear and they can have runny nose or congestion on that same side. So when a patient presents with side headache then we ask about autonomic symptoms. Autonomic symptoms are redness of the eye, tearing of the eye causes swelling of the face, runny nose or congestion on the same side of the nostril on that same side of the headache. Sometimes down the sensation in the ear. Then we move to the duration. For cluster headache, it's usually 30 minutes up to 3 hours of headache. For paroxismal hemocrania, shorter 2 minutes to up to 30 minutes. And then we have sunk and suna. They are more secondslasting headaches. They are less than 2 minutes. Based on this differential then we make the treatment plan because even though they are all called trigeminal autonomic sephalgia treatment plans are totally different. So peroxismal hemicia or sensa are different than cluster headache. Cluster headache usually comes in spring and fall. It's more seasonal and cluster headache usually comes around a specific timing of the day. Patients can tell you that the headache attack comes around, let's say, 10:00 a.m. 2:00 p.m. and they have one attack at night that wakes them up. Sometimes they can only have night attacks or they can have up to 5 10 attacks a day. Sanctuma there are spontaneous attacks. They can have 20 hundreds of them a day. They come and go spontaneous second lasting to less than 2 minutes attacks. And then peroxismal hemicrania again up to 30 minutes of attacks. It can happen multiple times a day. It doesn't have to cluster. When it comes to peroxismal or sensa during that season it can be throughout the year and peroxismal hemocrania can turn into a more chronic continuous version then we call it hemocrania continia. So how do you treat those? Do you treat those in a similar way to where do you treat them like migraines or do you have other strategies? We have other strategies for cluster headache. So first thing is for cluster headache we have after we make the diagnosis for all these headache actually for proxisal hemicrania cluster headache sensa even though we these are primary headache disorders these are rare headache disorders they are sidelock headache disorders they require to have neuroiming so we order MRI with and without contrast for these headache disorders to rule out secondary causes that's first thing and then we start the treatment plan for cluster headache we have a plan for clip treatment. We have a plan for what we call it bridging treatment and then we have plan for chronic treatment if it turns into a chronic headache. Rarely cluster headache can turn into a chronic one. So a good treatment is the treatment plan when the patient has the attack to take the treatment to stop it. So it has to be quick onset right because the attack itself can be like 45 minutes. If you are prescribing an oral smatipan it takes 20 30 minutes to kick in. it might not be good enough. So we prefer summatripan injection or summatripan nasal spray and the other treatment is the high flow oxygen with non-rebrator mask. So please do not order oxygen with nasal canola. It is non-rebrator mask 100% oxygen 10 to 15 liters. So it is high flow or smatipan 6 mig sub injections that's for acute treatment to stop the attack when it comes on. bridging treatment is the treatment we order we plan to stop the attack during that season. It's usually hydrosteroid prednizone 6 to 80 migram and tyrated down over two weeks or we start them right away on verapamil 120 migram extender release it can be increased up to 480 migram a day and then we also have now galcanism up one of the CGP inhibitors the monoconal antibbody that's in gality right mgality yes it's actually approved for cluster headache too but the dosing is different for cluster headache galcinism imality 300 mg one injection at the onset and then repeated every month as long as the cluster attack continues. So that's very interesting. I would imagine you don't have a lot of people at home with oxygen that can reach that kind of flow. So that's mostly in emergency departments I would assume. Correct. Correct. Unfortunately we are having trouble to get those oxygen thanks. So we have been using injections or nasal sprays more often. So I know those headache syndromes are relatively rare although I think I have two patients in my practice that fall into these categories and I suppose you see a fair amount of patients with these types of headaches. Right. Correct. Being a tertiary center we see more patients than in general population even in general neurologic clinics. Still rare headache syndrome but they are very devastating. They cause significant disability. So it is important to recognize these headache disorders. So let's talk about migraines and the pattern there. Eric, I'm going to bring you in here. They're not side locked as you noted, right? I think that was the term you were using. So they can be general, but you know, we have migraine with aura, migraine without aura. But what distinguishes a migraine say from just a tension headache? In comparison to tension headache, I think the distinguishing features are typically associated features. Tension type headache is typically a featureless headache. And so these are headaches that are going to have other associated symptoms. This can include things like sensitivity to light or sound which we refer to as phototohobia or phonophobia. My research really focuses on trying to better understand the mechanisms of phototohobia for instance. But other associated features can include nausea and vomiting which is quite common. So if present often times it's going to immediately move you into a migraine category. But there can be other less common features too. This can include things like sensitivity to smells or osmophobia. Dizziness and vertigo can be common symptoms associated with migraine. And so many perspectives, it's something that goes beyond just your typical headache that most patients complain of. And so these other neurologic phenomenons that really distinguish it. Another unique feature can migraine can certainly be aura. This can present in a number of different ways. By far the vast majority of folks with migraine with aura include those with visual aura. That should affect about 90% of folks with migraine with aura. But there can be other neurologic deficits or positive phenomenon that can happen with aura. This can include things like sensory symptoms, numbness or tingling. It can also include things like language deficits where people have a difficulty understanding or even being able to speak during an attack. Less commonly you can have motor deficits as well. And so in many cases, sometimes, at least for a first presentation, this can be very much mimic a TIA or a stroke. And in certain cases, it's appropriate to work that up. And so you may see this in your emergency rooms or if you have a patient calling with these symptoms, you should probably send them to the emergency room, especially if this is their first presentation. And so there's a wide range of symptoms that really kind of will cure you into migraine as being a key feature here. Other things that may help you distinguish migraine from other mimics can include things like most people with migraine will want to go to a dark room and lay down. Movement aggravates the pain and so that's very much distinguishable tenype headache. In other ways, if you're somehow considering differential between cluster and migraine, those with cluster often feel their a sense of restlessness. They're unable to stand still. With those with migraine, they movement really aggravates them. They're going to want to rest. They're not going to want to move. I had Mindy Ganguli who is in your department Dr. Ganguli who is the seizure specialist epileptic specialist and she made a comment that often time there's some overlap in terms of migraine features and seizure features and it's not always clear you know obviously patients who have more migraines are having headaches but if headache is not a prominent feature of the migraine it can get a little confusing right yeah this can be certainly sometimes a challenging area so we talked about aura aura can present without headache following classically we think of aura starting before a migraine attack. But for some folks, especially those as we age, things can change with time. And so in this case, you can have the presentation of aura, for instance, a visual aura, but then not go on to have a migraine attack. The complexity between kind of the neurological phenomenon of aura and whether that be in the context of seizure or in migraine can certainly sometimes make things a little bit fuzzier. Also with the fact that seizures can sometime lead to migraine like attacks afterwards. So there can be some overlap that's there. In very rare cases, there's some thought of the concept of migrpsy for instance, in which migraine can actually induce a seizure. It's a little bit of a controversial topic. I think I've had one or two cases where I've convinced myself that it is a legitimate phenomenon, but I will acknowledge the fact that this is still kind of a controversial diagnosis. So I want to come back to migraine in a bit, but I do probably the most common headaches in the world are tension headaches. And I do want to take a pause and talk about them because they probably deserve their own space other than they're not this right they're not migraine they're not cluster they're so let's talk about tension headachesha I assume tension headaches can be daily in the same way that migraines can they can be quite disabling as well right correct so tension types headaches they can turn into a chronic and we call it chronic tension type headache they have been ignored in neurology and headache world such a long time And there are few recent review articles on them. We are trying to pay attention more to those. When it comes to treatment, we don't have much on tension type headache. We know that tension type headaches are less disabling than migraine. They are not as severe. They do not cause nausea, but they can cause either phototohobia or phonophobia, one of them, not both of them at the same time, but they can turn into chronic tension type headache. When that happens we first line we treat them with medications like amitryptalene norptalene the triccyclic anti-depressants and then misopine has been mentioned but it's not an easy medication to use in the clinic it causes significant sedation and weight gain we start with triccyclic antid-depressants usually and if it doesn't get better then we go back to chronic migraine treatments and try those medications because we don't know any better. One thing is challenging when it comes to tension type headache. Differentiating between how much muscularkeeletal effect is there like how much the muscle tightness is contributing to this tension type headache. Physical therapy is really important. We prioritize physical therapy for our patients. When we diagnose tension type headache, it's also important to be able to differentiate with cervoggenic headache. A patient has significant restricted range of motion, they have trigger points, they have those tender spots on their neck, on their shoulder area, you might want to consider a cervical X-ray to see if they have significant cervical arthritis, cervical spine disease that might be contributing. So they might have cervoggenic headache, not only a tension type headache. And I assume those are due to arthritis in the spine, not specifically a ridiculopathy, right? That may be high up, but rather just arthritis in the spine that is somehow radiating into the head. Are they in the occiput when it's cervicoenic? Cervoggenic headache usually unilateral, sometimes can be bilateral. It can present like a neck pain radiating up and kind of wrapping around head. And when we press those areas the patient says that hey this pain is starting right there then we can precipitate that pain radiation and it can associate with radicularopatic symptoms like patients can have shoulder pain or numbness tingling on their arms that I guess help us to consider cervoggenic headache when that happens but it is most of the time in that occiput area. So physical therapy is your approach there for most of those types of headaches in addition to tension generally right for cervoggenic headache we like to do occipital nerve blocks and trigger point injections they can be pretty effective. We have seen patients that they have been having chronic everyday headache for many months and then when we do a nerve block with a specific trigger point injection it can fix the problem within hours. It can be pretty effective. That's terrific. Let's talk about migraines because that's where most of the agents are used for the treatment of headache. We should talk about the non-migraine specific medications first, right? So, Tylenol, NSAIDs, various caffeine-based agents. Fioraet was very popular when I was in training and their role both in migraine and in tension. And then of course you can overuse them and you get what's called the midocaine overuse medication overuse headache which can be associated as I understand it with any of those agents that are used too often. So let's start with just the non migraine specific medications. So not tryans not CGPS and how you use those now. So Tylenol ibuprofen as long as they help we offer those medications to our patients. It's important to explain patient what is the expectations from a rescue medication. So we assess the benefit of rescue medication by two things. One, how soon the medication stops the migraine attack, we like it to stop the migraine attack less than two hours and two is the recurrences. If the medication causes recurrences meaning that if the medication stop the headache that stop the migraine attack less than two hours but the migraine come backs comes back the next day within 24 to 48 hours it's a recurrence of the same migraine. So that means that that rescue medication wasn't effective. So then we failed that rescue. The other thing is with these over-the-counter medications the dozing we like to hit it hard and stop it. I personally do at least. So instead of one over-the-counter Advil, I like them to try 600 to 800 mgram Advil first and the combination combination with an anti-nigia medication. So ibuprofen by itself might not be very effective but if you combine ibuprofen with Zopran or composine or reglan it can be effective to stop the migraine attack or tension type attack. Combinations of Tylenol and ibuprofen and I guess when you add caffeine that it becomes eedrin. The important part with the exedrin sleep is really important. We like our patients to be able to sleep when they have a migraine attack. So if the headache is a late onset headache afternoon, we do not want them to take eedrin. The caffeine affects their sleep and they go into a this recurrence of migraine days. So for eedrin or any caffeine in including medications combination of analesic, we don't want them to take it later in the afternoon. When it comes to furet furol, we try not to prescribe them unless patients have some contraindications for tripons or gens. So fur furol is never our priority. We prefer tripons or gens. If patients cannot be on them then we can consider fur or furinal rarely because of their high tendency to cause medication overuse and habituation. That's interesting. That's a change from when I trained. It was usually the first thing you would try and when I trained trip hands were new and so obviously it's advanced beyond that. That's great. Eric, are there any pearls that you feel like maybe you share with the residents and others that you teach about these sort of non-specific migraine therapies? Some pearls to kind of think about here would be sometimes there can be an advantage of using longer acting enzymes things like neproxin which most patients can get over the counter but other prescribed ones can include nematone and these provide an advantage because they're less likely to lead to that rebound effect and they can be sometimes a little bit more potent and so have a much better ability to terminate the headache and keep the headache away and so this can be an advantage compared to ibuprofen which is shorter acting or tunnel which is also shorter acting and so it avoids this or at least decreases the potential for medication overuse headache. Caffeine does play a role here. I mean Saha said not to use it later in the day but patients do seem to have effect. You know I have several patients who say wow I just take four ibuprofen and a cup of coffee and it goes away. I guess that's a common therapy out there. Yeah, the addition of caffeine can be quite helpful and I think again it does pose the potential risk for medication overuse headaches. You have to be cautious there and and identify how frequently they're depending on caffeine to be able to terminate their headache. But it can be a very effective addition to many over-the-counter approaches. And so if those approaches are effective and working well and meeting the criteria that we just discussed, it can be an effective approach for patients. But you also have to consider how frequently they're using NSAIDs as a whole. and discuss those potential systemic side effects as well. I want to just talk about medication overuse headache for a minute here. You have patients who come in, maybe they're using NSAIDs every day. How do you know it's medication overuse or maybe there's their headaches out of control and they're not getting appropriate treatment? How do you know it's causing the headache versus a symptom of the headache that's not being effectively treated? I think often times we don't know specifically and it's difficult to really be able to distinguish between the two. And this is often why in my notation I say probable medication overuse headache because there isn't really a clear way to be able to distinguish between the two. I think it's important to be able to identify when you're concerned about how frequently folks are using short acting analesics or acute medications for treatment of their headaches and discuss those potential risks in terms of the potential for systemic side effects as well as for their risk for rebound headache. It's important for patients to feel empowered and understand what those risks are, but really then that's leading you to a discussion about the need for preventive medication to be able to effectively reduce the dependence on these acute medications. And so this leads you then into kind of a discussion of the importance of that and clinical trials have also shown that effective preventive treatments are really the key way of decreasing that use of acute medications. So let's start there with migraine and I think maybe with tension to some degree too because Sennha had said that they're similarly approached when you think about preventive medications I mean I think of propranolol beta blockers I think of anti-seizure medications that can be used as well but what are the modern prevented drugs that are used yeah let's talk first about what's considered classical preventive treatments or what's been used historically partly because we need to do trials of those medications but before we can get to some of these newer options that are available on the market now. So broad categories of medications that we have historically borrowed from have include as you mentioned anti-hypertensives, anti-depressants and then the anti-seizure medications. If we go into each of those three categories so first talking about the anti-hypertensives you mentioned propranolol beta blockers as a whole are considered firstline therapy. This can include beta blockers such as propranolol, mtopriol and then natalol and a tennool. And these can all be quite effective options at reducing uh headache frequency and severity. Obviously you have to think about what are the potential side effects and risks for that individual patient. And so if you're concerned about an individual with asthma or COPD, this may not be the category to use. folks that are particularly at risk for hypertension or syncopy, you would want to avoid here as well. Other things to think about, sometimes beta blockers, particularly proprenal, may not be a great option for folks with depression because it can exacerbate those symptoms as well. So, it's all about trying to kind of figure out what is the best match for that individual patient and kind of take a good survey of the kind of overall health to figure out what the best preventive option could be. So if it's not an anti-hypertensive anti-depressants can be good options and specifically this includes the tricyclic anti-depressants as Dr. Rosa Dgo mentioned this includes amatripptalene and norryptotalene. This can be very effective options. You might consider this esotion in individuals with other hormone but chronic pain that can also be a helpful treatment option and help manage that. For folks with issues with sleeping this can also be advantageous because they are sedating. So again it becomes figuring out things that might be advantageous in their management as well as not potentially lead to side effects that can be problematic. This might be not a great option for folks that are sometimes greater than 65. Folks maybe with a prior history of pseudocyle ideation might be avoid due to the risk for a potential overdose. Folks that you're concerned about potential weight gain. So all special considerations for each individual patient. But this can be a very effective options and I use very frequently in my own clinic. Other anti-depressants SNRIs such as duoxitine and venylaxine are can be good options. I would consider these as more second line anti-depressants to reach for probably not first line. First line being those tricyclic anti-depressants, but these can be great options as well. The SSRI really don't have as much strong research in this area. So really it kind of falls down to the TCAs and the SNRIs. You know, I recently came upon again this study that was done on anti-depressants looking at the effectiveness and the triccyclic were really effective anti-depressants and they fell out of favor because the SSRIs were so well tolerated but they still have a role in medicine nowadays for depression and so as you were saying Eric sometimes we're trying to solve two problems at once you know sleep and headache and headache and depression and so forth and you're always trying to but they actually are very effective anti-depressants still. Yeah, admittedly often times with tricyclic antidepressants we find that much lower doses are very effective for migraine management and so in many cases we're able to minimize the potential side effect profile by utilizing low doses of medications. Typically when starting a preventive medication like tricyclic anti-depressants really this goes for any of the preventive medications whether for all three categories but starting at low doses and slowly titrating up over time based off of need and tolerance and can be really an important way of trying to minimize the potential dose and reduce the risk for side effects. So, as I feel our time moving away, I can feel the listeners already getting upset because I teased them that we were going to talk about all these new medications, and I don't want to miss the opportunity to do that. So, let's briefly touch on TPAN specifically. Actually, Eric, I want to ask you, and you're on the research side and maybe the physiology side. I really don't understand what causes migraines. When it was explained to me as a medical student, it was a vascular phenomenon. And I remember thinking to myself, huh, it seemed like it was a lot of handwaving, but these drugs have targeted vascular aspects, right? Each of them and they seem to work. So clearly that I think makes us feel better that the mechanism has something to do with vasoc constriction and dilation and maybe how those alter. So let's clarify a few of those points. I would still argue the pathophysiology of migraine. There are many things that we have yet to understand but I would say we have really moved past and in many perspectives have dismissed the vascular theory of migraine and researchers really suggested that a baso dilation of the cranial arteries is not really the underlying pathophysiology and as we've talked about previously in the way that migraine presents this is a neurologic phenomenon we talk about this as being a neurovvascular theory of migraine and in many perspectives at me and still overweight the role of the vascular component to migraine. Vascular elements are really an epi phenomenon. They do happen particularly in migraine with aura but really this is a neurologic disease and a disorder of the brain. We're still trying to understand really where a migraine starts and kind of being able to kind of put together kind of a full beginning to end mechanism that's there. Things that we think that are happening. We think to a certain extent this is a result of polygenetic risk for developing migraine. This is a familial disorder that is a result of numerous small changes within one's genetic code that predisposes them to developing migraine attacks. And as a result of it, there is an alteration in how the brain responds to various external stimuli and this leads to hyper reactivity or hyper sensitivity within the cortex. But also we think there's probably a dismodulation of the brain and as a result of that this leads to changes in descending pain pathways in the brain and so as a result of that they are more likely to develop migraine attacks or be sensitized to various external stimuli. So these newer drugs target this system calcium ganere related peptide receptors right and so CGP and the drugs that we're going to talk about here are all antagonists to that system. Do we know what that system does? Yeah. So let's talk about CGP. I've been thinking about this since I was a graduate student. So CGP is a critical neuropeptide involved in migraine but certainly involved in other physiologic process. So CGRP plays a role in pain perception both for migraine as well as other pain disorders in particularly it's widely expressed throughout the trigeminal system and it's also involved in neurogenic inflammation and so both of those are really key aspects to migraine pathophysiology. It's also a potent vasod diilator as I just talked about we said the vascular theory of migraine is dead but I will acknowledge the fact that that cedarp is also involved in vasoddilation as well and so it plays a key role then in mitigating migraine attacks from a physiological perspective as it relates to migraine in folks who are experiencing migraine attacks studies have observed that there's increased CJRP in folks having an attack if you inject CGP into folks who experience migraine They can actually induce a delayed migraine like attack several hours after the injection of CJP. If you inject folks who don't get migraine, they may get an initial fullness of head but don't get that delayed migraine attack later on. This suggests that folks with migraine for some reason are sensitized to seizure PE. And now we've seen that there are numerous numerous clinical studies that have shown this is a very effective target for migraine treatment. This includes effectiveness for preventative therapies both for episodic as well as for chronic migraine including for those with medication overuse headache but also is effective acutely treating both migraine with and without aura. So there seem to be two categories of medications that target the CGP and CGP is what we're trying to antagonize here. We're trying to block it, right? So you have what are effectively seem to be monoconal antibodies right so vippy adjovi and gouty that sihad mentioned before and then you have the gapants and here I'm going to mess up the how you say these but atapants remapant uber pants so you're talking about cucypta nertk and ubelvi right so just those are the meds that are out there now can we just roughly distinguish those two how they work I suppose and how they're used Yeah, absolutely. So, first let's talk about the monoconal antibodies. There are four different agents as we mentioned that are on the market. Three of those are monoconal antibodies that bind to CRP as a light. So, you can think of it as going through and just kind of sapping off any extra CGRP that's in the peripheral circulation and then the specifically arenomab or emoig binds to the CGP receptor and block crop actions by binding to the receptor. Then on the flip side of things you have the GPAN. So these are small molecular antagonists that block the CGP receptor in this case. So they're most similar to arominab in terms of the monoconal antibodies. There are agents then that are effective for the acute treatment but then also agents that are preventative. On the preventative side you have a toapant and then you have remapant and then remapant is also effective for two treatments. the one agent on the market for migraine that is approved by the FDA for both the acute and preventative treatment of migraine and then the other acute agents that are on the market for the acute treatment of migraine include your broant and then the hopant. Okay, I want to go back with those and put the trade names in there too cuz unfortunately this is often how we know these. So a tagupant is cucypta, reggaipant is nortk, ubroant is ubelv and you said which of those is preventative which of those is um yep let's go through this again. So for the gpants you have the preventive agents which is qipa or to japant and then nerkch or raidapant are the two agents that are preventative for medications. In addition to Nertk, you also have your Brevly, which is your Burgant. And then you have Zevspread, which is a nasal spray. Yeah. And then all of the MABs, all of that we talked about Jovi and Galty and so forth, those are all injectable, right? So three of the agents are injectables and one of them is introvenous. So that's ViPi. ViP is an introvenous infusion that is done either in an infusion center at home. And I would say probably from a primary care perspective not something that needs to be utilized there. And usually that requires prescription from a neurologist having failed two other monoconal antibodies. So I think the focus really should be on the three subq monoconol antibodies which includes emoig imality and adobi. They're all preventative. They are all preventative. Yes. And so the subq injections are administered once a month. In clinical trials as a whole, all of them were effective both for episodic as well as for chronic migraine. I would say you can best summary of the clinical trials was about 50% of people got at least A-50% reduction in their migraine frequency. And so they saw a reduction in number of migraine days each month as a result of it. That reduction was continued month after month during the first 6-month period. And in addition to not only reduction in number of migraine days, there was also an improvement in quality of life markers as well in those clinical trials. And so for many folks, this can be a huge game changer and lead to really a significant effect in their overall quality of life and their changes really how they experience their migraine attacks as a result. Many folks also report that their migraines are easier to treat as a result of it and are more likely to respond to achieve treatments. I assume we don't have a lot of comparative effectiveness data on this. By that I mean comparing these infusions or subq injections monthly versus the traditional classical agents we talked about propranolol the anti-seizure medications antipressants and so forth. I imagine those are still much cheaper and so in many cases you're forced to use those classical agents and fail them before you can use one of these therapies. Right. Yeah. Currently in the insurance situation, standard at least here in Pennsylvania is a requirement that you fail two different preventive medications. Each of those being from one of the three categories that we talked about. So if you have one that failed an anti-hypertensive, then you need to fail either an anti- seizure or an anti-depressant medication. And then if you fail those, then we can move on to these newer P agents. Similar concept would be for folks with chronic migraine for Botox. And so we do need to try these classical migraine preventative treatments first. Currently the American headache society though is advocating that these are should be considered firstline agents because they are more effective and safer than our other even the classical preventive medications. And so there haven't been specifically head-to-head trials but in meta analyses that have looked at both the efficacy of these medications as well as the safety profile. overall they out compete the other classical preventive medications. I remember you know as a medical just tell this quick story. I was a pen medical student and I was doing dermatology at HUP and I presented a case to the attending and he looked at me and he said well we've got a lot of different options on how to treat this. He said that usually means he said and I'm going to teach you something. When there are a lot of options for something it means that nothing works very well. And it was a really good teaching point. And it seems though that now these agents for prevention are replacing. So sort of other ones as the price comes down, they may just replace the other ones because they're much more effective. Right. Yeah. I think that these will in time really become the first line agents because they are so effective and safe options for most patients. And so yeah, I think this is really going to be probably the mainstay of migraine treatment moving forward. Not to say that we don't necessarily need newer therapies that are out there. Not all folks respond to these treatment options. I would argue the more options we have, the better because not everyone responds to each of these treatment options. And so having a variety of options available for patients really is going to be more likely then to find a treatment option that works best for them. So Siha, I'm going to throw it back to you because I want to talk about the get pants. These are the ones that we in primary care may actually prescribe because they don't require infusion and so forth. And we talked about Qippa, Nortk and Ubelv. Nortekch being the one that can both be preventative and abortive. So how are you thinking about these medications and how are you using them? I let me just throw that out as a broad question. Sure. Before we start talking about the GPens, I want to touch base on the tripans. Yes, Gens are safer when it comes to cardiovascular cerebrovascular diseases, patients with those risk factors, but trypton still has a role in treatment of migraine. Even though tripons has been out there for a long time, that is something we really like our primary care physicians to be more comfortable prescribing. Tripons are contraindicated on patients with uncontrolled hypertension, patients with history of coronary artery disease, peripheral artery disease, corided artery disease. But if you are able to control the patient's blood pressure, they do not have any other risk factors. Please do not hesitate to prescribe tripons. One thing Eric mentioned about the pathophysiology of migraine. How we apply that in clinical picture is so we used to say like basel migraine right. So if patient has a vertigo and migraine with it then because we were thinking about basel arter vasoc constriction we wouldn't prescribe them tons. will be worrying about vasoc constriction after and we wouldn't prescribe them trypton now we think that it's the brain stem ex hyperactivity of the brain stem so then it's not a basel migraine anymore it's a migraine with vertigo so trypton are safe so these are important to consider in the clinical picture so if you are seeing a young patients without any other comorbid illnesses they do not have high risk for cardiovascular and cerebravascular disease you can prescribe trypton and we have Seven different tripons. Sumatripton, risotry, naratrip and elatry which are imitra, mox salt, emerge and real packs. These are generic and you do not have to worry about insurance companies. So you can prescribe these medications. When you are prescribing tripons you can go ahead and prescribe their full dose. For imitra for adult it's 100 migram. For max salt for adult 10 milligram for emerg naratypan for adult it's 2.5 milligram for real packax for adult it's 40 migram and the prescription is take one tablet at the onsite you can repeat after 2 hours except naratan it's long acting so it's after 4 hours and they can take usually two tablets maximum for 24 hours you try two different tripons they do not help then we move on to gens that's insurance requirements as Well, or if they have cardiovascular cerebrovascular disease then we specify patient cannot be on this because it's contraindicated they cannot be on tripons then we move to JPEN so I like Nortac remagend if patient has high episodic migraine attacks and they are hesitant to be on preventive medications but I am worried about medication overuse so then I prefer Nortac because NAK has both use right it can be used for acut treatment it can be used for preventive treatment. So if they are having good months, they are only needing it five times a month, they take it as needed. And if they are having few bad months, weather changes, some significant stress, they can take it every other day for prevention for a few months and they can go back to using it as needed. So no has that advantages. Ubrai it's 100 migram. It can be prescribed 50 milligram as well. There isn't any significant side effect changes with the dose 50 versus 100. So I would like to go ahead and prescribe the 100 milligram. Take one at the onset can repeat after 2 hours. Maximum dose of 200 mg. The GEN's most common side effects are nausea and constipation. Very well tolerated. That's the advantage of CGP inhibitors. They are well tolerated medication. Less side effect profile. Patients likes patients like them. And then we have Zaf spread or ZVN. It's a nasal spray came out recently. It's not very famous yet. For patients with GI problems or they have significant nausea, throwing up with the migraine, you might consider zpress of a gen instead of an oral agent so they don't throw up their medications. There's like an ocean of pearls. You know, that's the part of this podcast I think we're going to be going back to and listening to again because so I'm just going to repeat a couple of things that you said that were very valuable. A trip still have a role clearly and often are I imagine first line given the expense of the other agents. They come in multiple different forms. You can give them by mouth injectables sublingual nasal sprays. So tripans really can be very helpful all generic as you said and then when it comes to the keypads you mentioned Nortk as both preventative and as an agent as an abortive medication and it has that flexibility. What was the dose of the Nok again and how did you do that? 75 migram. Nortech has a long halfife. That's why it's only once a day dozing. 75 migram sublingual. It's once a day. It has like a mint taste. Some patients really like that and they like that they don't have to worry about drinking it with water. So they put it under their tongue. It dissolves and it is easy to tolerate. Gensants are they better than the tripans or we cannot really say better. So migraine is very complex disease and as Eric tried to explain it's a pathophysiological mechanism of migraine is very complex. There are still migraine phenotyping studies we are trying to see this is like one disease it's multiple different presentation it changes patient to patient. Whatever their dominant mechanism of their migraine that medication group works for them. So for one patient it's the CGP and CGP inhibitors work for them but for others it might not be that. We have patients that they do not respond to CGP inhibitors and sometimes it's shocking they do respond to our old toprade our topamax or verapamil like which we don't really talk about it much because it has very low level of proof. So based on patients mechanism of the dominant mechanism of their migraine the medication group that works for them changes and the other thing is the combination. So we have patients that CGP works but it helps 50% and they have chronic everyday migraine. So then we have to combine it with Botox or we have to combine it with topade or they have an underlying depression then we like to combine their Botox treatment with an SNRI medication. So the combination works for them. What we do is or I like to do is when I start with a oral nonspecific medication if it works 20% I do not stop and move on to next one I continue and add on the next medication if it is 0% benefit and side effects only then I move on to next one I stop that medication so we have to be clever with the combination of treatment so that's why we think about okay what is the pharmacological mechanism of this medication so how we can combine with another one. So patient get full benefit from it. So I really like for young patients they have fatigue, they have trouble with school, focusing, cognitive decline with their migraine. I like to combine their venoxine with Botox. So they can have a significant benefit with their focusing and attention problem with venafaxine and then Botox kicks in with their migraine. So they can have a good relief with that. And one hip we forgot to mention at jeep and culipa. is the preventive jeependent. It comes in 10, 30 and 60 milligram. 10 milligram we almost never use. 30 migram and 60 migram are good dosing. 60 migram is the one shown to cause weight loss. So for patients who are willing to lose weight that can be of additional benefit for them. Same side effects nausea and constipation tulip to Japan can be considered for prevention as well. So you mentioned Botox and so what is the role of Botox in modern headache management? Now Botox is an underutilized treatment for chronic migraine. It's FDA approved treatment for chronic migraines since 2010. A big part I guess we are responsible as a neurologist because we don't train our residents to be able to do Botox. Every general neurologist should be trained to do Botox and we are trying to achieve that with our residency program here at Penn. So in 2010 based on the prem study Botox approved for chronic migraine treatment in real life with the insurance requirements if the patients try and fail three different non-specific oral medication group then they have chronic migraine meaning that they have migraine headaches more than 15 days a month over 3 months they do qualify for Botox. It's one of the safest option. It doesn't cause any systemic side effects. It is 155 units with 31 injections. There is a migraine protocol that we follow. So it is a standard internationally. We all do the same injections on the same locations. We can cause maybe duria eyelids, maybe neck weakness other than pretty safe treatment. And when those complications happens, they do not last over two weeks. Nowadays, we are discussing if Botox is a safe option during pregnancy. And we do have patients that they do continue their Botox treatment during pregnancy and it has been so far shown non-territogenic and a safe option. It's not finalized yet but it seems like it is a safe option. So you said it's sort of with chronic migraines people who have failed multiple other agents. Right. Correct. Correct. So after those topraate amitryptene blockers then they do qualify for Botox and it's preventative. It is for prevention. Correct. And we repeat it every three months. We're running a little long. I'm just really curious. Where do you inject in the head? We do injections on the forehead. There are seven spots on the forehead. There are four spots on the temporales muscles, three spots on the occipitalis muscles, two each side of suboxipitalis, and then three injections on the trapezius muscles. Eric, is there anything you want to add before we sign off just on those topics that anyhow just really brilliantly covered for us? Yeah, I think sometimes particularly considering Botox for certain patients. I think sometimes things that I'm thinking about, I think it's a really attractive option for folks who are more elderly and maybe have other chronic coorbidities that may prevent you from thinking about other preventive treatment options. It could be also helpful for folks who have a lot of maybe cervical myofascial pain because it does provide a little bit of muscle relaxation particularly within the parispinal muscles as well as the trapezius muscles. folks perhaps with some comorbid bxism or TMJ disorder. Sometimes adding a little bit of injections into the massitor can be helpful as well as just the kind of standard temporalis injections can complement some of those other treatment options that you're considering for patients. And so sometimes those can be good things to think about when picking candidates to start Botox with. Well, I want to thank you both of you. This has been terrific. I've learned a ton and I think I had a lot to learn because I really didn't fully understand these newer medications other than what I'd read. But that's different from actually talking to somebody who's using them every day. So, this has been immensely helpful. Is there anything else you just want to add before we sign off? Thank you. It has been great to be here. Migraine is a very common disorder and we are happy to help. And how you have headache practices now within your division. I know out at Penn Valley Forge we I believe have somebody and I think you are in New Jersey as well as of course down at Pearlman. Are there any other places we should mention where you have headache specialists? We have a new headache specialist started at Presby and VA and the veteran hospital here in Philadelphia and Pennsylvania hospital and our new provider coming joining us in August at the Radner location. Ah Radner. Oh that's great. Well I'm at Radner so that's terrific. Yeah, really thrilled. Eric, any closing thoughts? I think we are in an exciting place in terms of migraine treatment. I think these CJP treatment have really revolutionized the field and I think in time we'll have other new options down the road and I think we've gotten to a place that we can really make a big impact on folks quality of life. And so we're in a new era. Great. Thank you both again for coming. This has been very educational. I'm sure everyone's going to appreciate it. And I want to thank the audience for joining the Penn Primary Care podcast. Please join us again next time.