Welcome everyone to the Penn Primary Care podcast. I'm your host Dr. Kendall Williams. So if you're like me, atrial fibrillation has become very confusing. When I graduated from residency, we would measure the left atrial size, decide whether a patient was eligible for cardioversion. If they weren't, and many weren't, we would put them on deoxin and cumin and go about our day and figure out how to manage the INR levels. Since then, it's gotten a lot more complicated largely because of the success of various interventions and increasing evidence around the best forms of anti-coagulation as well as uh antirethymics and so forth. So, I invited an old friend Dr. Benjamin Duza on the program to talk to us about all this. Ben is a cardiologist at Penn, an electrophysiologist primarily based at Presbyterian Hospital. He's an associate professor of clinical medicine at Penn. He did his residency at Penn in med pedes and then also cardiology fellowship and EP fellowship here. Ben, thanks for coming. Thanks for having me, Kendall. You know, it's funny. I went from the most generalized residency to the most subsp specialcialized field. So, go figure. I took a couple of left turns and so I'm happy to chat with you and cover pretty much everything about Aphib that we can during our time. I remember Benny is one of my most stellar residents and I had we had we worked together a couple times. At that time, you were going to go into congenital heart disease. you were going to transfer your med piece training into congenital heart disease, but then it went another direction. Huh. Sometimes it's the mentors and the people that you interact with during your training more so than the field that you think you're going to go into. And if you asked me when I started residency that I was going to be an adult electrophysiologist and not a pediatric cardiologist, I'd say you're crazy. But go figure. You know, always keep your eyes and ears open. You never know if you'll interact with and decide what you are going to do. But I couldn't be happier in what I do now. But but you're right, Kendall. From the days when we were rounding at presby together to doing this now, it's changed significantly, but in a good way. So, let's talk about atrial fibrillation. This is obviously very common. 25% of patients over 40 will have atrial fibrillation. You know, we know that it's the primary concern with AIB is stroke risk and we spend a lot of our efforts thinking about that. But there's also prolonged AIB, uncontrolled AIB that leads to attackicardia induced cardiammyopathy. I'm not sure we even knew that when I was in residency. And then there's also the symptomatic piece that we want to be attentive to and control. Ben, I'm just going to start with AIB generally and get your thoughts on the complexity as it exists now sort of from an overview perspective. Sure. I tell my patients atrial fibrillation. It's the most common abnormal heart rhythm in America. Millions of Americans have it. It's the most common reason that people come and see me. It's not a life-threatening heart rhythm. So it's usually the first thing I tell patients because they're very worried they're meeting you know a specialist who deals with life-threatening heart problems but it can be lifealtering certainly and and as you had mentioned there sort of different stages of atrial fibrillation and largely treatment based options which we'll spend more time talking about can be related to symptoms and obviously stroke prevention sort of the two most important things but as we've done better and better at treating patients keeping them alive longer and having more oxygen areas nonogenarians in in the world, we're going to see more and more aphib. So, it doesn't really matter what your subsp specialty is, whether you be an electrophysiologist, an internist, an ER doc, and we will all take care of patients with atrial fibrillation. So, it's really important that we understand what it is and how to treat it and not ignore it essentially. And so, I think that I joke with my patients, it'll put my kids through college because I'm going to be caring for millions upon millions of patients with it and it's just going to continue to grow. So it behooves us to make sure that we know how to treat this properly because quite frankly the majority of the people who treat this are not electrophysiologists. They're primary care physicians. And so that's very important for them to understand and also kind of talk about some things that are were lore within primary care and internal medicine for a while with aphib that are actually not true and that we've disproven over the last few decades. Let's start with a basic breakdown of aphib into valvular AIB and nonvalvular AIB. You know, our literature basically starts with nonvalvular AIB because that's what we're largely managing ourselves as opposed to valvular AIB. When we say valvular AIB, Ben, we're talking about not just valve replacement but also valve disease associated with Aphib. Right. Right. So most clinical trials that looked at valvular aphib and we're talking about largely anti-coagulation trials were based on patients who had moderate to severe mital stenosis andor micro. So the mitro valve is the one that's particularly troublesome in terms of patients who have atrial arhythmias. It's sort of a different mechanism and a different way of treatment. But also patients who have other valvular disease like cusped aortic that's not necessarily part of the definition. So if you've had a bioavvr aortic valve replacement or again non-mital disease it's not really indicative and the reason that this is important is that the mechanism of blood clot and stroke forming in patients who have micro stenosis or mechanical mitro valves in particular is completely different and so it really changes our treatment and and that's kind of the basic difference between valvular and nonvalular aphib and you're correct that kind of the major majority of clinical trials and treatment options we're talking about is nonvalvular atrial fibrillation meaning non-mitital valve disease but that is the majority of the patients anyway that have that and it's still true that for the most part from anti-coagulation perspective for valvular AIB couadin still has the dominant role right correct and so you know it's interesting when they did initial trials looking at the novel anti-coagulants or the doax things like eloquisix Ben, Zoraltto, Riveroxaban or Poxa, Debatran patients who had mechanical valves andor severe moderate severe mital stenosis, they developed clots like very high risk of it and had strokes and so the indications in ACCHA guidelines are very clear that for those patients they should be on war for endocrumadin but the majority of the other patients which is almost everyone can be on on the novel anticoagulates but that's correct those patients should very much only be on war for enter. So several months ago, I had a patient come to see me who was older, 70s I believe, but really hadn't seen a doctor in a long period of time and came into the office and was asymptomatic, had actually biked in. He was very physically active and we did an EKG because he was a new patient. He was an Aphib. So we had this question, okay, so what do we do now? He was relatively his heart rate was relatively controlled at that point. But the first decision for me is really about an anti-coagulation decision and then a question of do I need to control the heart rate with something? Do I need to get that under control? So before we get into issues of rate versus rhythm control and other things, those are the most basic elements of all aphib management I think are a rate control and anti-coagulation. So Ben, it's changed a little bit in terms of the urgency with which you would start anti-coagulation. By that I mean, you know, we used to admit people that patient would have been admitted to the hospital in my residency program and placed on a heperin drip. I think we've backed off on that a little bit, but we still want to start antiquagulation whenever we recognize it. Right. No, I agree. And you know, I think that with things like the Apple Watch and a device called Cardiom mobile and and there many other ways that you can actually get an EKG, we're identifying even more patients with atrial fibrillation than we did before. But even today, I had a patient come in who went to the primary care doctor for their regular visit, had an EKG, and it showed atrial fibrillation, completely asymptomatic. So, I think it's incredible to me that we have patients that are so symptomatic with Aphib that they go on heart failure or can't tolerate even a little bit of it. And then he had patients who have no idea that they had it. And so that spectrum sort of runs the gamut. I see patients of all age ranges with atrial fibrillation. It's more common as we're older, but I see it in 20-year-old marathon runners. And so it really is a fascinating from that concept. In general, the patients who are older tend to be the more asymptomatic. And that's likely because the atrium is a little bit more stiff as we get older. And that that actual squeezing of the atrium makes less of an importance to those patients. That's the concept. And so in terms of anti-coagulation, it is paramount. It's kind of the number one important thing because as I'd mentioned earlier, it's the top two cause of stroke in America along with hypertension. So really that's the majority of our patients. And I just rounded on a patient yesterday in the hospital who had had a stroke from Aphib who was asymptomatic and she's doing okay, but the family are devastated. I mean strokes are probably the worst thing that can happen to a person. There's multiple surveys that ask patients whether they'd be rather die or have a stroke and the answer is die. That's how bad strokes are. And unfortunately, strokes from aphhib tend to be more debilitating than non-afib strokes. So, it's an even worse scenario. It's interesting that in terms of the answer to anti-coagulation, yes. Now that we have novel anti-coagulants, meaning Paxos, alto, eloquis or even there are multiple options for patients. You know, Warfin or cumin's time tested, it's been around forever. Some call it rat poison because it was used for that. And so unfortunately warrin has a couple of issues that many of you have dealt with is that it's very difficult to a patient get them therapeutic on INR. It interacts with a lot of medication and foods. It's a vitamin K antagonist. So it really is difficult for patients to take but it is cheap. So the other nominal antiquagulants depending on the choice of medicine tend to be more expensive but they work within about two hours of when you take them. So if you have a patient in the office and you prescribe it for them, by the time they take it and go to the pharmacy, they're therapeutic and it's really wonderful from that standpoint. And all of them have been found to be at least non-inferior if not superior to war. So I'm very biased in that those drugs are much better in terms of preventing stroke and ease for patients to be able to take. Interestingly though, even with the novel anti-coagulants, there's up to a third of patients who are not antiquagulated who have atrial fibrillation. And so that's that's an important thing to recognize. And you'll have patients come into your office who have chronic atrial fibrillation. They're not anti-coagulated. And a lot of times they'll come in and see me and I said why? And sometimes you have to tease that out in a little bit more detail. But it is very important that we figure out why. If the answer is that they can't be and we can talk about it, you know, moving forward in terms of alternatives to anti-coagulation, but it is the number one most important thing in terms of treating patients who have atroofibrillation is preventing the stroke prevention. You know, the highest risk category for stroke risk, I think, is now 18% I believe. So 18% per year. You're talking about antiquagulants dramatically reducing that risk, not to zero, but bringing it down significantly to the point where it is the highest priority whenever you recognize patients. That's exactly right. And what sometimes people don't recognize about either Chad's or Chad's VAS score is that it's a cumulative risk. So when I tell my patients, we're not talking about 50-year-old like next year, but over the 30 years, if you do that math, it's pretty profound in terms of stroke risk. And so I mentioned the Chad score, which is this sort of the general score calculator to decide if patients need anti-coagulation. So, but I will say that everyone should be using the Chad's VAS score. So the Chad's vast score was developed after the Chad score and it basically looked at retrospectively which patients were we missing who was having a stroke that had AIB and the answer was women and people with vascular disease. So those are the ones that traditionally were missed from the Chad score. Now we think that women is an interesting one because we're not sure if it was actual biases within decisions. If you actually look across the board, we tend to prescribe anti-coagulation more for men than women, even for any other risk stratification and offer advanced therapies like an ablation or otherwise. And this is biases within medicine that we always have to take attention to. But also, there's some thought that there may be actual menopausal differences and hormonal differences within blood clot formation that might also contribute. We don't really know to be honest, but we know that women were underprescribed anti-coagulation and had a higher risk of stroke and patients with vascular disease, so peripheral vascular disease, coronary artery disease, disease elsewhere that increase their risk of a blood clot forming. And so the Chad's vasque calculator, which you can get on MD Calc or really anything, you really should calculate for every patient who has atrial fibrillation. And I document that in every one of my notes because I think it's important and tell the patients what their risk is. There's also a bleeding score calculator. It's called Hasblled. And that actually tells you your risk of bleeding. But I want to be clear that your Chad'sVAS and your Hasblled score don't tell you which one to choose. So if your has score is really high and your Chad's VAS score is moderately high, it doesn't mean okay, don't do anti-coagulation. It turns out that the higher your has scores, the higher your Chad's vas score is because you're sicker. And so it is just a sort of a natural progression. And so I use those score calculators every single day. Again, they're pretty easy to calculate on the patients. Honestly, if your Chad's vas score is one or above, I do anti-coagulate. One is kind of a borderline depending on the European or the US guidelines, but I hate strokes, so I I really push to anti-coagulate these patients more so than not. And again, just another caveat for the Chad's FAST score. If female is your only risk factor, that is not a risk factor. it's female with age or female with diabetes, heart failure, previous stroke, etc. So I don't calculate it as much because I think a lot of my patients I automatically know that they need anti-coagulation because as I sort of look through the score it's almost like these patients that we used to refer to as lone AIB that I don't know if you still use that term but basically are young people with no other risk factors no other coorbidities who just happen to have atrial fibrillation out of the blue and who may not need anti-coagulation but beyond that it seems Seems like there's a very small category of people with AIB that can actually opt out of it. You're right. And and honestly, because we tend to take care of just sick people in general, not just in Philadelphia, but across the board, you mentioned lone atrial fibrillation. So that let's talk about some of the different categories. So lone atrial fibrillation is a single isolated episode of AIB that never occurs again. Less than 10% of patients are lone AIB. It's quite uncommon. generally will happen in the setting of having surgery or sepsis or some other clear inciting factor. So then you move to what's called peroxisal atroofibrillation. So atrial fibrillation which your heart goes in and out of it alone. So by definition again terminates without requiring a cardio version or within 7 days. And so that's what's referred to as peroxismal. Patients will progress to persistent atrial fibrillation which is where you're in atrial fibrillation for longer than 7 days require a cardio version. about 20% of patients progress within a year. So one in five is what I quote my patients which is what the data shows in terms of going from peroxal to persistent. The reason that's important is that atrial fibrillation begets atrial fibrillation is sort of a common mantra in our field is that meaning it causes damage to the heart and we can talk about that moving forward. When you get from persistent atrial fibrillation to what's called longstanding persistent atrial fibrillation, which is more than a year of being in atrial fibrillation, that's the next category. And then chronic atrial fibrillation, previously referred to as permanent atrial fibrillation, is when we've made a decision that this patient will not ever try to get out of atrial fibrillation and they will stay in it permanently. And we can talk about the consequences of that or the benefits of that certainly as well. So those are the different classifications. The progression to each is variable in the patient, but is progressive. It's a progressive disease. It does not generally go away on its own. And for patients who have one episode and they assume that they're not going to have another, that's extremely uncommon. And interestingly, and I this is a board's question. The question is, is your risk of stroke higher in peroxol versus persistent atrial fibrillation? And the answer is it's the same. Most of us think, oh, it's PAF, it's going away within a day or two. The common thought was within 6 to 12 hours a blood clot would form in the heart. But I want to caution people that say, "Well, they have PAF, not persistent aphib, so I'm not prescribing them a novel anti-coagulant." That's not the correct thing to do. And that those patients should be based on not the chronicity of atrial fibrillation, but on their Chad's vascore. And so it's a very common misconception and a common mistake that people make in terms of not prescribing or even offering anti-coagulation for patients who need it. Ben, I just have one question I want to go back to on the patient who seems to be low risk and has an episode of aphib. Do you monitor them? Yeah, that's a good question. You know, in the patient, regardless of whether you start anti-coagulation or not, I'm a big fan of monitoring and there's a couple of options in terms of what that monitoring is. So if you're talking about a patient that's peroxismal, you know, a halter monitor monitors for 24 hours. The only time I really prescribe a halter monitor is for patients who have chronic atrial fibrillation that I want to make sure they're under rate control. Right? The data largely shows that if you keep the heart rate below 100, you'll decrease the risk of a, as you had mentioned earlier, candle cardiammyopathy. And so there's actually some data that shows that aggressive beta blockade or calcium channel blockade, meaning getting the heart rate between 60 and 80 is probably not that important. If it's between 80 and 100, it's okay. But 120 or 130, you will more likely develop a cardiammyopathy. The next option in terms of monitoring is either a mobile telemetry or an event monitor. Again, these are longer monitors like 2 to four weeks largely to look for patients who have symptoms that are less sporadic. You know, I mentioned cardio mobile and the Apple Watch. And so the data actually shows that those devices are actually quite sensitive, but not specific. They're actually they're more than 98 to 99% sensitive. They're very good at reading normal. You have to wear it obviously and so if you're not wearing it, that's a problem. But there are some studies, there was a study that was published where they took patients who were wearing the watch who were in the hospital on telemetry and they looked at between the two. And so the problem is, as I mentioned, it's not specific. So premature atrial beats, artifact, PVCs, other reasons, noise will tell the patients. I can't tell you how many times I've had patients that said, "Oh, doc, I said I had possible aphib on my Apple Watch." and I look at it, I'm like, it's normal. You know, very frequently I'll have patients upload their EKGs to My Pen Medicine and and send them to me and then I'll take a look at them just to make sure that everything's okay. But those are actually pretty decent technologies to be able to monitor your heart rhythm. And then the option that I use very frequently in patients, especially if we're going to talk about stopping their anagulation, is an implantable monitor. So implantable loop monitor, which is about the size of the pen cap, goes underneath the skin, monitors every heartbeat for like four years. There's actually some pretty sophisticated AI algorithms for me to be able to monitor your heart rhythm and and it transmits actually through your smartphone. So, every day it sends us information. I run all the remote monitoring at PEN for our patients. We follow like 5,000 patients that have devices and we have a whole team of people that just watch it and we're not looking at it in real time, but every day we get data on a patient and then we look at it and it makes it helps us to make decisions. Just to give you an example, I have a very close friend of mine. He's actually my best friend. He lives down in Summers Point, New Jersey. He's 41 years old and he has aphid. So, he has an implantable monitor and I'm kind of keeping an eye on him to make sure that he's doing okay because if his burden starts to get worse, I'm going to start to push him to do more aggressive things than being on anti-coagulation, rate control, and on an anti-riythmic. He's actually on fleaine currently. So, he's my best friend. So, I'm not thrilled about having to take him in to do an ablation. So, I'm trying to get him to do appropriate lifestyle modification to be able to help with his atrial fibrillation, which there are options for. The patch monitoring has been useful in primary care as just a a nonobtrusive option. I imagine you probably are doing so many implantables that you don't order as many patch monitors. That's true. The nice thing about the patch monitor is it records the data. It's really easy to wear. It's waterproof. Patients can shower with it and stuff like that. The only caveat and you need to be careful is that if you're looking for something dangerous that patch monitors don't transmit in real time. So they don't find out what the data is till after they return it. So if you have a patient that has syncopy or you are worried about something but aphib is actually a good indication for that as long as they are anti-coagulated obviously. And so I don't use as much of that but I tend to sway towards wearables like a cardium mobile or an Apple Watch or an implantable but I do all of it pretty much. This is very tailored to the patient and depending on what you're looking for. But it is important to look for progression of atrial fibrillation because when you move to from peroxisal to persistent success rates of everything we're going to talk about moving forward go down. And so you want to offer the best success rate for your patient. But the biggest hurdle that we have in electrophysiology is that referrals to us for symptomatic aphib are quite late in the disease state. And so I always thought it was fascinating that if you had a patient in your office today who had chest pain, you wouldn't even let him leave the office. you admit them to the hospital and make sure that they don't have anything significant. But Aphib will kick the can down for years. We'll basically say, "You're fine. You're not going to die." But then we don't offer them the best therapy for rhythm restoration that we could have. And we decrease their success rates because we did that. And that's largely because of trials like affirm, which I'm happy to talk about in more detail, and things that us in primary care feel like, oh, well, you're not going to die from this, then doesn't mean we have to do anything further. we're doing a disservice to those patients by doing so let's talk about rate versus rhythm control because I can give you a little bit of the primary care perspective on this you know I sort of felt like I knew what I was doing with atrial fibrillation and it seemed that you know maybe in the early 2000s we would get constantly get in the New England Journal new studies trying to show that rhythm control was better than rate control and I would flip through them and flip through the abstract and it would say it failed to make any improvements and over rate control and I say oh good that's good for me I don't have to do anything different but there has been a lot of change since then and I think many of us maybe have missed that and that's maybe what you're referring to Ben you know that you people are not getting to you early enough so let's actually go back for a second and talk about the effects of atri on the heart not just uncontrolled aphib but just aphib as well sure so atrial fibrillation obviously beyond the symptoms what happens is and there's very interesting animal models where they took animals and they put them into rapid AIB and saw what happened to the atrium. So the atrium over time scars and in fact at Penn we did the initial studies to figure out what's the normal voltage of the atrium. We actually had patients sign up and we put catheterss in their heart. We figured out what the normal we at Penn discovered this and so we actually know what normal voltage is in the heart and what happens is over time a scar starts to form and I describe it to patients as like scar on your skin and the left atrial size as you alluded to earlier Kennel is kind of a marker of that it's not perfect but it's sort of a rough marker of basically dilation and damage that occurs to the heart and so essentially what happens is that scar pattern starts to develop over time and gets worse over time and that is what leads leads to not just the symptoms of aphib which is palpitation, shortness of breath, fatigue, exercise intolerance. I can't tell you how many times I talk to patients and they say do you have any symptoms related aphib? They say no. And then if the common symptom you're talking about is palpitations, they don't necessarily have that. But then when I tease it out a little bit more, they're like, well, I used to run, now I walk, I used to do this, but I'm getting older and it's related to that. It's has nothing to do with the age. It has to do with that your pump is not pumping in unison, which is what I tell my patients. But some patients will because of those scar patterns develop heart failure. And so while we may not say, and there is no trial that's shown a mortality benefit from restoration of sinus rhythm and atrial fibrillation, morbidity is significant. And so whether it be symptoms, admissions for heart failure. And very interestingly over the last few years there's some clear data that shows that leading patients in atrial fibrillation even on anti-coagulation increases your risk of vascular dementia and early scenile dementia. And so we think that even on anti-coagulation you're probably throwing micro emblei to the brain and causing infarks that we don't see but it's been very clear. And so if you have like the patient you were referring to, Kendall, A-50-year-old who comes into your office and nuance at Aphib who's quote unquote asymptomatic, one I would say really tease out symptoms, especially if they don't know the duration of a two, the mantra in EP is always give someone at least one attempt at signs for them, whether that just be a cardio version or a medication or a combination, because there is long-term data that shows that remaining in atrial fibrillation for years or decades is detrimental. in certain ways. And so we never really acknowledged that until somewhat recently that we're probably causing harm to at least a subset of patients. Look, if you have a 9-year-old that comes in your office asymptomatic aphib, talk to them about anti-coagulation, make sure the rates are controlled and leave it at that. But if you have A-50-year-old who comes in atrial fibrillation, even if they're asymptomatic, I would still prove that they're asymptomatic. Get them out of API and see how they do. And almost everyone feels better. But also explain to them there are some consequences to leaving you on atrial fibrillation for forever especially in younger patients. So before we deal with cardioversion I want to ask a scenario. Let's say a patient presents to you that their chad's vasque is high enough that they would be on anti-coagulation. They have paroxismal aphib. They've been documented. Maybe they're in an ED but now they come to you and they're not an aphib. What do you do with that patient? This is a symptomatic patient or asymptomatic patient. They were symptomatic when they had it but haven't since haven't since and they selfresolved autoconverted so even after the first episode of atrial fibrillation I do recommend anti-coagulation I think as I had mentioned that alone atrial fibrillation is so uncommon and the risk of a stroke is there assuming they're not a Chad's vask of zero typically what we'll do is look for any potential reversible risk factors those are things like thyroid disease sleep apnea is a huge unidentified risk factor and we've actually started a program pen where we're doing home sleep studies to try to figure out in patients this is patients who have documented a clearly shown that any attempt at rhythm restoration is improved by helping sleep apnnea and weight loss and so weight loss is a big part of obesity is another epidemic we have in this country and it is clearly shown that weight loss decreases burden of atrial fibrillation there was a paper that was published in Jack a few years ago that clearly showed that now it's easier said than done I I think that more and more I've tried to educate my patients on weight loss and try to get them to exercise and diet and do the appropriate things. So, diet, exercise, modifying any other risk factors, whether it be excessive amounts of caffeine and alcohol, those are all potential things that should be done regardless. And then we generally will put a patient on in addition to anti-coagulation, some sort of rate control agent, whether it be a beta blocker or calcium channel blocker. Tend to sway more towards beta blockers. So, there's no rhyme or reason per se depending on the patient. And then if they have recurrent atrial fibrillation, now you've sort of gone to the point where you're going to prescribe an anti-hythmia medication or recommend an ablation. And when you get to that point, you should refer the patient to a cardiologist or honestly a cardiac electrophysiologist. And I think that what happens is even now you guys are the gatekeepers of these patients. You see them much more than we do, but the delay in getting them to us is again decreased in terms of success rate. And I'm happy to walk through what we currently use in terms of anti-hythmia medications and talk more about ablation. Before we get to ablation, let's just talk about the anti-arithmia medications because the other scenario I was just ready to propose to you is a patient who is in aphib when they come in to see you and you know they're rate controlled maybe they're on mytopral they've seen their internist they're they're on a pixaban say but they're in aphib you've got an echo I'm sure by the time they get to you generally and you're going to make a decision about cardioversion what's going into that decision I mean you want to confirm that they're not going in and out of atrial fibrillation versus persistently in it, whether that be with a monitor or one of those mobile devices that I'd mentioned before. In terms of anti-hythmia medications, unfortunately, amiotarone is the easiest drug to prescribe. It's the most commonly prescribed anti-hymia medication in America and it has the most side effects. You know, whether it be thyroid, liver, or lung toxicosis. If any of you have taken care of some of these patients, I just saw a patient earlier today who has really bad thyroid disease because of amiotarone. And sometimes it's irreversible. The other problem with amiotarone is it absorbs in the fat tissue and so it basically the halflife of amiiotarone depending on the patient can be up to 50 days for one halflife. So this drug stays on for a very long period of time especially if it's been chronically used. Well the problem is if you've already used amiotarone every other drug that I might try to prescribe to the patient which are fleinide or propanone which are the 1C agents or medicines like defetylite tikkasin or sodol which are class three agents. Class 1 C agents affect the sodium channels. The class three agents affect potassium channels. You don't need to necessarily understand that part but I can't prescribe those if I've already been on the drug amodor. So, if you've already decided this patient's going to be on imoderone and they've been on it for a few months, there's a blackbox warning to prescribe any of those other drugs. So, you've already kind of pigeon holed the patient that they have to be on either drug for life. And like I'd said, for older patients, it's perfectly fine. But for younger patients, I think you're doing this patient a disservice by just putting them on anyone. And if that decision is made, the question is, why didn't you pick any of those other drugs? And if the answer is I'm not familiar with prescribing any of those other drugs, well then send them to a doctor that does do that for a living, which is me. And so I think that cardio version is very much an option for patients certainly. Cardio version I describe to patients is like resetting the fuse box in your house. It'll get you out of atrial fibrillation, but it won't keep you out of atrial fibrillation. And so I have patients that might last a day, a week, a month, a year. So that prediction is variable. But in the absence of starting another drug or talking about ablation, the likelihood of recurrence is exquisitly high. And so I would pretty much guarantee a patient that they're going to go back into a if we just do a cardio version and it's perfectly fine to do it. And in general, if you've been on anti-coagulation for a month and sort of that category and been compliant or INR is therapeutic, then you don't need a transissophage or cardiogram or TE. And then so for anyone who's ordering it and or prescribing it, if it's nuance at AIB and they haven't been in it coagulated, then do a TE. If you're not sure about compliance, do a TE because you don't want to miss a blood clot, right? Because then you have a stroke and it's devastating. So, but if they've been compliant, we routinely will not do a TE in a patient who's been on it for more than, you know, four weeks. So a patient that's comes to you and they're on Mtopolaw and a Pixaban, they've been on it for six weeks, you're comfortable starting an anti-riythmic right at that first office visit. I actually want to highlight this. I didn't know this. So if you've been on amiiotarone, you can't use the other agents, right? For at least a month. You have to wash out the amiiotarone and then start the other drug. And depending on the drug, you have to hospitalize it. Fleckinide has a bad reputation somewhat infamous because it was actually you know in my circles which was evidence-based medicine it taught us a lot about the value of randomized control trials and that's it was always used as the example of randomized control trials because when it was used to suppress VATAC it actually had increased mortality but then it got new life in the AIB universe right and maybe you could just speak to fleconide because that's probably the one most of us know a little bit about and now are seeing it more in our patients. So the trial you're referring to Kendall is called the cast trial. And so basically a drug like plecide called ankenide was used in patients who had had a myioardial infarction were having a lot of PVCs. We're having a lot of non-sustained ventricular arhythmias. And we said well we should probably suppress those. It's probably a bad idea that they're having them. So let's put them on the drug that suppresses them. Well the drug did a great job of suppressing the PVCs but they died more and so it was associated with mortality. the drug was pulled from the market and then kind of what happened was later drugs like fleckinide and propapanote or rhythmol were developed and are the same agents but now we excessively are protective with our patients and not using these drugs meaning if they have a structurally abnormal heart if they've had a history of certainly a myioardial inffection and reduced ejection in fraction however we kind of generalize it to all patients even if that's not correct meaning cardiamopathy otherwise stable CAD really anything that's abnormal the biggest concern that I have and this is again a relative contra indication is if you have conduction system disease on your EKG meaning a bul branch block or by facicicular block the reason is that these drugs actually work on the QRS the sodium channels and that it actually can increase your risk of heart block and so the majority of the patients that probably die who take these medicines it's because of that it's because of brady arhythmias and so what I would say is If you're comfortable prescribing these meds, I think that's perfectly fine. But if you're getting to the point where you're doing that, probably should be following with at least a cardiologist, if not a cardiac physiologist. And so, not that you can't prescribe it, but they're complicated and they have drug interactions and they have side effects. And this is literally what I spend my life doing. And so, I think that if you're getting to that point, then that's where a referral to, you know, a specialist for aphib is important. So propapanone and fleinide are in the same class which is 1C and they have very similar side effects and then the other class of drugs that we usually use for this are the class reagents which are sodtool or defoliticism. So you said earlier that everybody probably deserves a chance at at least one cardio version if I heard you correctly. That's correct. Yes. So it's one chance at sinus. Yeah. And is that chemical or electrical or just one of those one of those options? Yeah. So the likelihood of a conversion to sinus with drugs. So amiotarone is quite uncommon. I'd say maybe 10 to 15%. Fleinide and propapino maybe a little bit higher like 20%. The drugs that actually have the best chance of cardioversion chemically are defetyli ticasin or sodtool that work on the potassium channels and those drugs they can prolong the QT interval which is the reason that we hospitalize those patients but they're about a 30 to 40% chance of chemical cardioversion. But I also want to be clear, especially for those who ran in the hospital. If you start any of these drugs on patients and you don't know their duration of anti-coagulation, if they convert to sinus, they have the same risk of having a stroke as if you electrically cared. So you just have to be careful. Patient comes in with new onet unknown duration. You start them on amiotarone in the ER or on the floor and they convert to sinus and have a stroke. You've basically cardioverted them. And so you have to make sure that you're not putting your patients at undue risk. In fact, I've seen that happen. The cardio version I'm largely referring to is an electrical cardio version in terms of getting patients out of AIB. There is a drug that we don't really use called ibutily that you can use to IB cardiovert somebody but I don't even think it's on formal area to be honest. So we talk about cardioversion. I can't tell you how many times by the way patients come in and they say I came into the ER I got a medicine ivtopol ivressor ivy and it converted me to sinus. It did not. Those drugs do not cause a restoration of sinus rhythm. Your heart went out of it on its own. All it did was control the heart rate till we did that. So those drugs just control heart rate. They don't control heart rhythm. It's a common misconception. And I try to explain that to the patients. And so those medicines don't do that. All they do is prevent the rapid ventricular rates or RBR, make the patients somewhat more, you know, less symptomatic until their heart goes out of it long. So if you fail cardioversion then they're in your office and this whole question of catheter ablation comes up. I understand we are still doing the maze procedure. Can you take us through that? So you have a patient who's in aphib has symptoms you know you don't want to leave them in their current state and you want to do a procedure. So yeah so I joke with all my patients if I knew what caused atrial fibrillation I'd have the biggest house here on the main line and I wouldn't you know have to be working most weekdays. But unfortunately I and nobody knows what causes atrial fibrillation. But interestingly we do know where in the heart it comes from. So the majority of atrial fibrillation actually comes in the left atrium. So the pulmonary veins where they insert into the left atrium embryologically are different than the actual left atrial body. We think that that anatomic difference is why we get atrial fibrillation in that area. We think there's a couple of other theories that there are nerve ganglium that are on the outside of the heart that are there as well. We don't really know to be honest and there's lots of different theories and a lot of research that is being done among other places. But what we found was that the Cox procedure was a very successful procedure to be able to keep patients out of atrial fibrillation. It was a surgical procedure in which the surgeons would put stitches and basically compartmentalized the entire left and right atrium. it actually was very successful was like more than 90% successful but had a high rate of complications especially when they did the stitches on the right side of the heart because they caused sinus ner dysfunction and heart block and a lot of those patients needed pacemakers. So catheter ablation was essentially developed to recreate that surgical procedure but without it open heart surgery. And so you're correct and we still do the maze procedure. Surgeons if they're going to the hospital or operating room for valve surgery otherwise and have aphib they'll do it. We don't routinely do it as an denovo procedure meaning send the patients for open heart surgery because we can do it with a catheter procedure. So catheter ablation has sort of taken off over the course of the last few years and again it's a catheter procedure in which place catheters in the groin go up and cross over from the right to the left atrium and basically electrically isolate that abnormal tissue around the pulmonary veins. Why it's referred to as pulmonary vein isolation. There's two main ways to do it. There's actually a third way that's brand brand new called pulse field ablation which is like the new hot topic in EP but essentially radio frequency ablation which is burning or cryoablation which is freezing different ways to basically isolate electrically abnormal tissue and so that's pretty much what we do in the EP lab success rate of drugs for PAF are about 40 to 50%. The ones that we talked about earlier flinapone kikosin or amiotarone etc. Success rate of catheter ablation from proxisal atrial fibrillation is about 80 to 90%. So it's about twice as good. It's not 100% but it's pretty good. Now persistent atrial fibrillation is a little bit of a different story and success rates of that go down depending on the clinical trial and the patient. It can be anywhere between 60 to 70% depending and sometimes requires multiple procedures or additional medications. So my point earlier is letting your patient wait till they get to persistent atrial fibrillation has caused them a disservice in terms of what I can offer them or anyone can offer them in terms of ablation. So many people looked at ablation as sort of a black box and that it didn't work and then it had a high risk of complications. Well, Cabana was a trial that came out fairly recently. It was a randomized trial that looked at aphib ablation versus drugs. It did not meet the end point of mortality because as we said the very first thing I said atrial fibrillation is not life-threatening. So if you're trying to get a mortality benefit out of aphid, you're not going to get it because the patients are not dying from it. But it did show that catheter ablation was superior to drugs in terms of quality of life, heart failure, hospitalizations, and side effects. Actually, the side effect profile from meds is significantly higher. I generally will quote between a 1 and 3% risk of anything happening with catheter ablation. It's a safe procedure. In fact, I and the folks at Penn were the first ones to send patients home day from this procedure. I said 90% of the patients home the same day come in in the morning have the procedure go home that afternoon and they do quite well with it and I think it is an option for patients but it's a class 1A indication for patients who have PAF who have failed a drug and despite that the majority of the patients that are sent to us have tried multiple drugs or are persistent and we're not again doing our patients the best of what we can by offering them this therapy and so it is very much the future I very briefly mentioned pulse Pulse field ablation. So I was lucky enough to be the first one in the state of Pennsylvania to do a PFA trial on a patient. And so pulse field ablation is a technology that actually was invented for cancer patients. So it's basically non-therrmal energy that's delivered to the heart and it actually helped to shrink cancer tissue. But it turns out that cardiac myasytes are very sensitive to this. So it's really fascinating because ablation meaning when you burn or freeze tissue there are collateral structures that you can damage. Behind the heart is the esophagus. In front of the heart is the frenic. You damage the frenic nerve, you lose one of your diaphragms. Not good. If you damage the esophagus, you can have something that is a very life-threatening complication of ablation called an atro esophageal fistula. Ae fisticula. It's absolutely horrible. So, this therapy may completely make that go away. And it's actually really fascinating. I think sometimes in medicine when we apply technology or something from a different field to ours, that's how we really revolutionize the field. So anyway, it's still early on. We just finished the FDA trials. PEN, we were a part of it. It's really, really neat and cool and exciting to be a part of it, which is why I love working in a place like where we were. My point is that the technology continues to expand. So if you use the Affirm trial to make your decision as to what you're going to do for your patient, you're taking a trial that's now 20 years old. It was published in 2003, I believe, and making decisions when technology has been revolutionized over the course of the 20 years. I think that it's important that you continue to either keep up with the data or send them to the people who literally just do this for a living to make sure that they're getting, you know, the best therapy possible. It's very much an option for patients who have symptomatic aphib who've either failed the drug or who don't want to be on medicines forever. So when we talk about 70 to 90% effective, that's what I had read and I think you quoted something similar for catheter ablation. Those patients are effectively cured of atrial fibrillation. Yeah, that data is more than one year post without any medications. Now, it's hard to ever use the word cure, but yes, there's actually an interesting trial that's going on right now where we implant loop monitors in patients post alation and stop their anti-coagulation. The current guidelines say that you're supposed to stay on anti-coagulation even after JAR ablation based on your Chad score. Well, the number one reason patient come to me number one or two is can I stop my noac or cumin if I have an ablation? And the answer is maybe. So I think eventually it will make it into the guidelines. The trials ongoing right now. It's really fascinating. But I do do that in clinical practice and many docs do do that and I put loops in either at the time of the ablation or in the future and stop pretty much all their medicines. And so that's exactly right. So patients will leave your ablation lab off anti-coagulation with an implantable. No. Okay. Good question. The first three months is the highest risk of a stroke forming after catheter ablation just because there's catheterss in the heart. are stunning in the heart even more so than after a cardio version. Right? So a cardio version the risk of stroke is not just because of the blood clot that's there in the left atrial appendage which is where more than 90% of blood clots form. It's that the atrium are kind of stunned. They're not squeezing quite yet and then the blood stagnates. You know virtual house try it and then it goes to the brain and that's how you have a stroke. But again because 90 plus% of blood clots form in the left atrial appendage. There's also another procedure that we do called left atrial appendage closure or a watchman procedure. There's actually more companies that developed it. It is an option for patients who have nonvalular atrial fibrillation who have an elevated chad score who can't be on anti-coagulation. So stroke or whatever but GI bleeding bleeding anywhere essentially thrombocytoenia cancer falls due to Parkinson's etc. Interestingly, we ran two clinical trials at Penn where we basically randomize patients to preference anti-coagulation or left atrial appendage closure. And in the future, it is possible and more than likely the two trials were called option and champion. I ran them both at PEN that patients will get to choose. They'll say I'm either going to stay on Eloquis for the rest of my life or I'm going to have this procedure called a watchman procedure. And so that to me is very interesting. And then there may be patients that decide I don't want to be on anti-coagulation. In fact, the majority of people don't want to be on anti-coagulation. And so I think that that's a procedure that I do as well for patients. You know, I just hit a couple of them the other day. Patients that just can't be on anti-coagulation. And so if you have a patient that can't be on anti-coagulation, just saying, well, just accept your whatever percentage risk of stroke, there's actually an option for those patients, and that's a left atrial pen closure device like a watchman procedure. Those patients remain in AIB with watchmen, right? like you're not curing the AIB like you potentially are with ablation. They're remaining in aphib. It's just that you're basically this is a simple way of thinking about it. Basically keeping the clots from leaving the left atrium and blocking them, right? Yeah. No, that's ex that's exactly right. Basically, if you look at the device, it looks like a umbrella or a parachute and and you're exactly right. What happens is the body endothelializes that front of the fabric which is made of Gortex or PTFE and essentially it's like the left atrial appendage never existed. Left atrial appendage is like it's a vestigial organ. It's kind of like your appendix but it's in your heart. It serves no purpose that we know of but that's where the majority of the blood clots form. If you ever looked at it, it's very taculated. It's actually a beautiful place for a blood clot to form. And so that's why we basically seal it off. But you're exactly right, John. number one patient who's referred to me for watch when they say well this is going to fix my aphib right the answer is no it's not treating your aphib it's just preventing blood clots in patients who can't be on antiquaglation we are only recently looking at the possibility of doing both procedures in the patient at the same time combination of aphib ablation and left atrial appendage closure because then you get them off of all your medicines you treat their AIB prevent the progression of aphib prevent strokes we again were one of the first ones to do this in the country at Penn and we're looking at that and unfortunately the main reason that we don't do it is the insurance companies will only pay for one procedure and a patient at a time and so the patient the hospital actually gets stuck with a bill if we do that but for a subset of patients it's the right thing to do and I mentioned one of those clinical trials called the option trial which data will come out hopefully in the near future and show that it'll be the right thing to do and Medicare will pay for it and we'll be able to offer it to our patients because that's really a huge future for our patients not to have to be on any medicines at all for a including antiquagulation but typically we kind of stratify it as symptoms of aphib treat the symptoms of aphib stroke prevention treat stroke prevention I want to go back to the sublation question and anti-coagulation you had mentioned that 3 months out they have to be on it minimum yeah and then there is a thinking that you can do monitoring with no anti-coagulation right and this is kind of a controversial part of the field because it's not technically the guideline so if you ask an EP five EPS they'll give you five different answers so many of my patients they're going to have an aphib ablation, but they also need another surgical procedure or something else. I say if there's a timing, make sure you do that other procedure first because at a very minimum six weeks after the procedure, I'm going to say you cannot interrupt your anti-coagulation at all. And in fact, this is probably number one question I asked and I just saw a bunch of patients today. I'm having a dental procedure. I need to hold my anti-coagulation for how long, you know, how long is it okay? The answer is there's not a right answer. We don't really bridge patients anymore for Aphibib unless they have a mechanical valve. So the data is actually in it's in the ACCA guidelines is that we don't you know bridge patients with lovox or Hepin who are going to have a surgical procedure. But I typically will say you can hold the med for up to 3 days. Some people will say that they told me to hold it for seven days for a teeth cleaning. Well the halfife of the drug gets completely washed out within 48 hours. Certainly within 72. And I do tend to clear my patients to have it done. It is always a little bit of a risk anytime we do that. It's not a huge risk, but it's there. There's some data that suggests in some of the novel anti-coagulants when you stop it, there's a rebound prothrombotic effect. And so, you do have to keep that in mind. That being said, you have to weigh the risk of bleeding versus anti-coagulation. For something like a teeth cleaning, it's probably not higher risk. Obviously, for biopsies from a colonoscopy or a prostate biopsies or something where it potentially is a higher risk, you have to weigh that. Now, the surgeon who's going to do their procedure, they care about bleeding risk. I care about stroke risk. And so, it's sort of a competing factor, is it? So, I just wanted to bring that up because it's a very common question that my patients ask me. But, you're right, Ken, is that we don't stop any coagulation in the first few months generally and close monitoring is is required if you're going to stop. I typically wait till close to a year because there's a nice clinical time frame that says you've done well, you haven't had anything. Let's talk about this. And some patients are like, I'm terrified of having a stroke. I want to stay on my noak. It's fine with me. It's all patient based. Many of my patients ask which is the best noak. There's not a good answer to that question because there's never been a head-to-head study of all of them. Eloquist probably has the best decreased hemorrhagic stroke risk and tend to be used. But honestly, I tell my patients whichever one's covered by your insurance. So if Zeraltto or River Oxaban costs $20 and the other one costs 200, choose the cheaper one because there's no data that suggests that one is better than the other. Pradaxer Debigotran will be the first drug that will be generic and so we're getting to the point based on FDA approval that that'll be the first one. Praax causes the most dispsy or GI symptoms. So it's a little bit harder for the patients to take but I pretty much recommend any of the other drugs that you know overin if at all possible. So I want to go back to these procedures. I'm a little bit focused on these procedures because I want to make I understand catheter ablation. You're basically curing them. I understand the watchman procedure. This is for patients that are in atriofib. They may have failed catheter ablation but they want to get off or they can't be on anti-coagulation. And so there's this option and it sounds safe and effective. The next procedure that I think is just worth talking about is AV nodal ablation with pacemaker insertion which always seemed to me to be the most like the biggest commitment of all. So maybe can you talk to us about that? Yeah, let's talk about that. And so traditionally when ablation was not as successful as it is now many docs would provide this in general the way that I would think about it is if you've exhausted every other option that we've talked about earlier or if you're too sick to have any of these options right you have a 90year-old sweet patient who has fib with RVR despite beta blockers calcium channel blockers deoxin amoddon etc and is symptomatic with it then a navy node ablation and a pacemaker is an option what What are the risks? They're generally low, but you have now made a patient pacemaker dependent, right? And so, god forbid if anything happens to that pacemaker, it is life-threatening. That's rare. That is quite uncommon. The patients I'm referring to are older, sicker people. The ablation procedure I referred to earlier, an AIB ablation. You do have to go under general anesthesia for that, and you do have to be able to tolerate it. Depending on the procedure, it can take a few hours. And so, you have to have a patient that's healthy enough to tolerate it. You also have to have a patient that can tolerate anti-coagulation. So if you have a patient that's truly contraindicated brain bleed that neurologist says they can't be on hepin for even you know a few minutes and they can't be a candidate for left atrial appendage closure then this may be an option but I want to be clear that doesn't obviate their stroke rest they'll still be at a stroke risk because they're in a many people think that if you get an AV node ablation and a pacemaker you don't have a stroke rest anymore because you're synchronizing but you're not. You're synchronizing the ventricle not the atrium. the atrium is still an AIB and so you still have that risk of a blood clot and stroke. So we don't do too many AV node ablations and pacemakers. They're really for refractory chronic atrial fibrillation or permanent atrial fibrillation. We again use chronic instead of permanent that we don't have any other options for. So you have a patient that's on the AC unit and we can't control them any otherwise and they're having heart failure, they're having issues, then we'll go ahead and put in a pacemaker. And it's actually interesting. More recently, we've been doing something called physiologic pacing or left bundle pacing, which is instead traditionally when a lead went into the heart, it went to the RV apex, the bottom of the heart. Well, the electrical conduction actually starts at the base of the heart and goes down to the apex. And so, and now for the last few years, we actually screw that lead into the base and it kind of delivers more physiologic pacing because sometimes depending on the pacemaker type, you can develop a cardiammyopathy. But this is a a rate control strategy, not a rhythm control strategy in patients who we just don't have any other options. So we do it less and less frequently than we used to, but still an option for patients. So Ben, back in the day, atrial flutter was considered different from atrial fib. I believe everything we've said about atrial fib probably translates to a flutter as well, but educate us on that. Yeah, of course. So 30% of patients who have atrial fibrillation have atroof. tell people that they're like cousins. And so the stroke risk is the same. The anti-coagulation indication is the same. However, atrial fibrillation is even more amendable to catheter ablation, atrial flutter than is atrial fibrillation. Generally, when we refer to flutter, referring to CTI flutter, cotricuspid ismas dependent flutter, right-sided flutter, the concept is the IVC has no electrical tissue. the tricuspid valve has no electrical tissue, but the area in between them, meaning the CTI does. So, you set up a sort of a circuit in the heart that we all have, but for some reason, it's the perfect way to set up what's called a re-entry rhythm or basically a spinning around in a circle on the right side. Now, if you've had a heart surgery or a previous ablation, that can occur anywhere, not just on the right side. But in general, it is a class 1A indication for firstline ablation for atrial flutter, meaning over cardioversion for two reasons. One, the risk of recurrence of atrial flutter is even higher than with atrial fibrillation. Just whenever you have that circuit, you get locked into it. And two, and it is in the guidelines, you can stop anti-coagulation in patients who have had an atrial flutter ablation. We typically do the same like two to three months after. But to commit a patient to lifelong anti-coagulation after you card them from flutter or you could cure it, I use the word cure with flutter and then get them off of anti-coagulation. Again, I still do monitoring those patients because 30% of them can have AIB. You don't want to miss that. I just had a patient that I did their flutter ablation. I put a loop monitor in. He's two months out and he has a little bit of aphib. He doesn't feel it. So, we're not going to worry about it, but I'm not stopping his eloquis because he could have had a stroke. So, not because of flutter, because of aphib. When you see atrial flutter on an EKG, that is a get him to one of us because we can cure that. And so, I think that and they're even harder to control with medications. Rate control is almost impossible in those patients because you're kind of locked into a macro reantry circuit. It's not going away. And so anti-coagulation is the same. Medication choices are the same, but catheter ablation is much more metal to it to the point where if you see a patient in the hospital, call me about them and I'll do their ablation before they even leave the hospital because I can cure for it's a very straightforward 30-minute procedure, same day, that kind of stuff. So I think the technology has made us improve so much with this. Just want to share a very brief story. The person who invented a lot of the mapping systems that we do, it's called electronatomic mapping. He was a physician and an Israeli soldier and he actually figured out that we can track soldiers out in the field without seeing them. How do we do that in the heart? And he put these little magnets on catheterss and we put patches on the patient's chest and magnet and it revolutionized our field. Things that used to take eight hours take less than 1 hour. Things that took 100 minutes of X-ray use no X-ray now. And so it's really we're lucky and blessed that we have all these new toys and fun stuff at Penn that we can do all of this with. But also it's changed the field in terms of treatment options. And I think that for folks who think of this from when it first started say 20 plus years ago, it's not even close to the same options and treatment. And it's going to continue to grow. I was just at the Heart Rhythm Society the other last week and I'm learning new stuff every day, which is it's exciting and it's it's a good time to be in the field, but it's complicated and so it makes it hard to know all of this stuff, especially if you don't do it for a living. Even if you do it for a living, it's hard to do. I'm glad you said it's complicated because I was that's the reason why I invited you on because I was like, this is starting to get really complicated. Ben, this is great. We're up against the time. I actually want to bring you back at another time because I do want to talk about some ventricular arhythmia stuff. Maybe we can get into some of the SVT stuff, but just to talk about also I had a final question I was going to pose to you about congestive heart failure and atrial fibrillation, but I think it's probably just going to take us down a place that we need to have another show. Sure. Well, I I'll say a very brief answer to that is that patients who have heart failure and aphib, they really don't tolerate aphib and the data is actually clear in a mortality standpoint that you should really be aggressive about treating those patients. So if you have patient with either heft or he refuse ejection fraction or preserve injection fraction a don't sit on those patients you're really really doing them a disservice. So that's the short version but yes we can go down the rabbit hole next time and that's a great place to end. Thanks Ben so much for coming. I really appreciate it. I'm sure the audience appreciates it. This is really educational and very helpful and I imagine we'll have some follow-up questions. Thank you to the audience for joining the Pen Primary Care Podcast. Please come back again next time. Please note that this podcast is for educational purposes only. For specific questions, please contact your physician.