Woman: Ready, set, go! Knees up. Faster, faster. That's it. Now we're getting there! Amy: I've always had a really active lifestyle. Growing up, I was a three-sport athlete, and then I went on to college and I played college basketball. Run it back, squat, tap. Perfect. Keep going. Amy: After college, I took up running and I ran a half marathon. I'm really competitive. I love the competition. - Perfect, perfect, perfect, perfect. Go, go, go! Amy: Even when I'm doing yoga which is supposed to be, you know, your Zen, turning inwards, I'm always trying to do more than the person next to me is doing. And one. Take a breather. Amy: My name is Amy Wallace, and I came to Penn Medicine due to severe urinary incontinence. After my first son was born, I had the normal issue you hear women talk about, you know, when I coughed or sneezed or jumped. When I had my second son, he was 10 pounds 7 ounces, and after I had him, I noticed a marked difference. Like I couldn't walk across the room without having issues with the urinary incontinence. I couldn't work out. I couldn't chase my kids around the backyard. Even just normal functions, picking things up off the floor caused me to have issues. They just impeded my day-to-day living. - When a patient first comes in to talk about their incontinence, I usually want to gauge how much it's bothering them and how much they're willing to do to change the problem. When I met Amy, she was wearing two to three pads for protection from leakage and it was really bothering her, especially during activities like running. What kind of activities are you doing at this point? Amy: Dr. Smith's bedside manner was wonderful. She came in smiling, interested in my life and my kids and what my post-surgery goals were. She went through some testing with me and jokingly she says to me, "Oh, you're leaking like a sieve. Surgery is definitely your option." Dr. Smith: When Amy came to see me in the office, we talked about her surgical options. The most commonly performed surgeries for incontinence involve the use of mesh. Mesh is a material that can be used to support the bladder and urethra to help patients regain control of their bladder. One alternative to mesh that I like to offer patients is the use of their own tissue, something called an autologous sling. The autologous sling uses a small bikini incision to harvest fascia which lines all of our muscles to be used as the sling. This sling is then placed to support the urethra in a very similar fashion to the way mesh is used, and that helps to prevent urinary leakage. - My husband and I live a really kind of organic, natural lifestyle, and the thought to me of having the mesh in there was not something that I was comfortable with. So the fascia procedure, came with a slightly longer recovery but, knowing that I only had my body parts inside of my body was important to me. It was just a one-day outpatient. Like we went back to New York that night. Everything at Penn was streamlined, was efficient from the surgery day to my postop, the patient email system, everything. That made it just an easy procedure, even traveling from two hours away. - Hi, how are you? - Good. - So good to see you! Welcome back. Amy: She said, two weeks and you'll be like, she said you won't be running marathons, but you'll be back to yourself. And I thought how am I going to have two incisions that you know, two weeks and I'll be good to go, and I was. It was incredible. - By six weeks, she was completely back to doing all the things she loves doing. And three months later, she ran her first 5K. - It was just an amazing feeling, to feel like I had the life back, the active life that I wanted to model for my boys and I wanted to have for myself. Thank you so, so much. Truly I mean that. Like I feel like... I'm going to get teary-eyed... like you have given me back my life and I can't thank you enough for that. - You're welcome. You did everything you were supposed to do. You were quite a pleasure to take care of. - Thank you. - It really is a lot of fun to take care of patients like Amy, to see them get back to their activities, to hear about them running races and jumping with their children. This certainly is a great job, one that I enjoy doing every day. Amy: I can't say enough how much it has changed my entire life. This actually let me do all the things that I want to do. It let me be the person I want to be. It's been a gamechanger for me.