I always loved math and science. I was a chemical engineer before and ultimately had the opportunity to spend some time working over in the Middle East. I worked with a number of doctors over there who I really loved the relationships they had with patients. I loved seeing how they took the science and math and all the creative problem solving they did and translated that into patient care and working in really sensitive areas. Hi, my name is Caleb Koval. I am the director of Genital Urinary Reconstruction and Transitional Urology here at Penn Medicine. My practice is primarily reconstructive urology. Basically, the whole idea is trying to make people's lives better and restore function as much as possible. Some of the more common things I see are urethral strictures, which is basically where there's a constriction of urine flow from scar tissue, urologic trauma. So people that suffer car accidents, gunshots, you know, trauma to anywhere in the urinary system. We help take care of your regional strictures, which are varying from the tube that goes from the kidney down to the bladder and flow of your. But we also take care of a fair amount of men after cancer treatment with erectile dysfunction, urinary incontinence or urinary leakage, buried penis, penile cancer, testicular cancer, you know, kind of a wide spread of of urologic ailments. Here at Penn Medicine, we have a chance to work as a team, so we get a chance to collaborate with a lot of other physicians, you know, who are at the top of their fields to, you know, really put together the best team to help with any complex issues they may have. You know, I always tell patients I can never promise them that we can get them back, you know, to where they were in the past. But the whole goal is we're going to work with them to individualize their care, to really try to put them into a better situation, to, you know, optimize their function, to make it so that, you know, they can live with the best quality of life possible. Many people around the world, you know, do have issues, you know, like urethral strictures or traumatic injuries that, you know, in wherever they're living. They don't necessarily have access to some of the care that we can provide here. So we've been fortunate enough to establish work in a number of other countries where we go in not only try to provide those surgeries, but really train the team on the ground everywhere from the preoperative teams, the nurses, you know, the doctors in terms of the work up, the management and how to best optimize these patients through the operative care of the different techniques to manage them, teaching them so that they can then employ those techniques well beyond, you know, beyond the time that we're there. Urology, such a vast field that, you know, every every day it feels like I'm doing something a little different, you know, whether it's, you know, putting in a penile prosthesis, you know, doing a robotic surgery to reconstruct a ureter. We have so many different, you know, skills that we learn in urology and that we can, you know, deploy in urology, that it just keeps the day's fun. And I really do think we get to help people and make their lives better, which is always a really nice boat, is still that.