- I wanted to become a doctor probably around when I was in high school. And I think it was a shadowing experience that I had with another surgeon, and I thought it was really amazing that they were able to sort of combine science and that personal and human experience at the same time. And so that's what made me want to pursue medicine. Hi, my name's Justin Ziemba, and I'm a urologic surgeon at Penn Medicine Urology. The main focus of my work is complex kidney stones, so both the surgery and the medical and preventative management. We still have a lot to learn about why individuals may have kidney stones but still not experience symptoms, and why people have such a wide range of presentations for their kidney stones. We have a very comprehensive team, so we have nurses who help manage patients in the post-op, as well as partnerships with our colleagues in nephrology, which is a big component of the prevention aspect that many other centers do not have. In addition, we have the ability to do some of the more complex surgeries that other places do not and we do a lot of them. My approach to care is to try to make it as personalized as possible. And so I think they appreciate that. And then when they do have recurrence of their kidney stones or another episode, they know that there's someone on their side or their team that can help them get back to whatever they were doing in their life. I would say the best part of my job is probably the people that I get to work with. I have a patient who has a severe genetic disorder, related to kidney stones, and she knows that she can reach out any time. We have imaging available for her, and so she is very familiar with the treatment options, and so we can do most of her care within a few days simply because I think we have that relationship. And so if she didn't have the quick access I think it would detract from her ability to be with her family and friends and her job for longer periods of time before she was able to get treated and back to doing what she does.