- How are you? - Are you here for your shot? - Penn Medicine has really been the only organization that came in to service my community, my family, my neighbors, and me. - This is something that's really necessary. And I'm sure the people in the area and the zip code appreciate that, because I know I do. - The purpose is to target our most vulnerable population and really hone in on addressing those inequities that we see in vaccine distribution. - It's extra special for me, as a Black physician, to make sure that they see me here. There's a difference when it's someone who looks like you that's administering the vaccine. There's a difference when someone that looks like you is telling you that it's safe. - I know the importance of the vaccine, particularly to African-Americans. So if I can be an example for them, I want to do it. - When we first started at the hospital, we were doing all employees. And we've now changed over and we're doing community members. People are so excited to get it, and the fact that we can come to them to give it to them, it makes it that much more powerful. - I'm feeling good.  I'm like excited. - That is it. - That's it? - That's it. - Holy cow! - Our strategy has primarily been grassroots engagement and communication, and so we work heavily with our community partners and faith leaders. - We hit the churches first, because the church is the epicenter. So we talked to the pastors first, and the pastors were able to distribute the information to their congregations, and then word of mouth spread from there. - It was absolutely about access. How do we ensure that there is digital equity, or tech-quity? And that was a core tenet of how we framed all of the clinics and the sign-up process, moving away from internet-based solutions. - Text messaging, interactive voice recordings, so all automated phone call scheduling. - I received a text message, and in the message it says that if you have anyone close to you that's interested in receiving the vaccine, please give them the number. - Now that I got the second dose, I'm having a get together and celebrating. All my friends that have been vaccinated will be there. - I work with my father a lot, and he's going to be 79 this week. I feel really good about being able to see him and not worry about potentially bringing something to him. So I'm very excited about that. - It is wonderful having health organizations like Penn that want to talk to the people and get in the community, and find out what the needs are. It's just wonderful to have people that care.