Now that you've had your consult, let's talk about your upcoming appointments. First, in some cases, you'll have a pre-simulation appointment, which is a nursing education session. There, we'll review what to expect for what's called your marker placement procedure, as well as your simulation procedure. The marker placement is where both small fiducial markers and for those who need it, a spacer will be put into place. During the procedure, fiducial markers, which are tiny gold wires, will be placed inside the prostate. These help us see your prostate on imaging every day, like GPS locators. For patients who are also getting a spacer placed, hydrogel will be placed between your prostate and rectum, which pushes them apart and physically provides space. This reduces radiation dose to your rectum. Prior to that procedure, you'll be given instructions as to when to take antibiotics. The day before the procedure, starting at 12:00 noon, stop eating solid food. You may only have clear liquids from 12:00 noon until after the procedures over. It's very important to stay hydrated. 48 to 64 ounces is recommended. At 12:00 noon, take two Dulkax biscodal 5 mg tablets. You'll purchase this over the counter, and any brand is okay. At 4 p.m., take another two Dulax 5m tablets. Between 5 and 6 p.m., mix two capfuls of Murilax powder in 16 ounces of liquid. Then drink the solution. The day of the procedure, please continue to drink clear liquids, and please take all your prescribed medications, but continue to hold your blood thinner medications if instructed. After your marker placement, you'll have your simulation or planning study. The therapists will adjust your body into the correct position for your radiation treatments and then we'll place tiny permanent tattoo markers that look like moles or dots on your lower abdomen. Do the same prep regimen as you did for the marker procedure. At 12:00 noon the day before, stop eating solid food. Drink clear liquids only until after the simulation. Stay hydrated. At 12 noon, take two Dulkax Biscodal 5 mg tablets. You'll purchase this over the counter and any brand is okay. At 4 p.m., take another two Dulax 5 mg tablets. Between 5 and 6 p.m., mix two capfuls of Murilax powder in 16 ounces of liquid. Then drink the solution. The day of the procedure, please continue to drink clear liquids and please take all your prescribed medications. You'll be asked to drink water before we take the CT and/or MRI images of your body. And that's it. It can take up to two weeks for your radiation plan to be complete. Our office will contact you when it's time to schedule your treatments. And just a reminder, during your treatment, you can reach out to your team through the My Pen Medicine portal.