Welcome everyone to the Penn Primary Care podcast. I'm your host Dr. Kendall Williams. So, we started this podcast in order to support primary care physicians both within the Penn environment but also outside of Penn really with practical clinical guidance, advice based on the experts we have here at Penn and how they can inform our practice patterns and our practice strategies and really just help us solve problems. We've done a couple of non-clinical topics, but today we actually want to do something much broader because this podcast has really been about promoting primary care. So, what we want to do today is talk about what it's like to be a primary care physician. We are actively recruiting people out of residency programs to stay in primary care. We're going to explicitly say that Penn is hiring and we're actively recruiting people to work for Penn, but we're also actively recruiting people into the profession, into the field. And so for today, what we wanted to do is have a discussion about what's great about primary care and then what are some of the challenges and also clear out maybe some of the misconceptions about what it's like to be a primary care physician, but also where the field is headed. So to do that, I invited back an old friend of the program, Dr. Joseph Teal. Dr. Teal is faculty in the department of family medicine and community health at Penn. Last time he was on, he had a significant role, but now he is the chief of the regional primary care network for Penn Medicine. Joe, thanks for coming again. Yeah, it's great, Kendall. I'm also thrilled to have on Dr. Ada Amua. Dr. Amua is a family medicine physician in the Penn system. She works out at Penn Medicine Lancaster General Health. Adah, thanks for coming on. Thank you for having me. So, we're going to start with what's great about primary care and why we're doing this. I went to medical school at Penn and then I trained at the University of Pittsburgh. And one of the things that happened to me when I went out to Pittsburgh is that Pittsburgh is a wonderful general medicine training program. So, I was exposed to these wonderful general medicine physicians who really became my mentors and I learned about how interesting and diverse and challenging primary care could be through that community and then was able to come back to Penn and be part of the Penn community. So, I'm a big advocate of primary care. I think it really is an extremely challenging and rewarding field. But I want to before I start to sound like a cheerleader, I actually want to ask Dr. Teal, Joe, what brought you into this field? What do you enjoy about it? What do you think are some of its benefits? Yeah. So, kind of my path was a maybe a little different than some others because I actually entered medical school somewhat knowing I would be going to some sort of primary care or primary care adjacent field. I was part of a program called the National Health Service Corps and so was lucky enough to be accepted into that program senior year of college and had the benefit of being here at Pen Medicine as well for medical school, but was on the National Service Core role at that point. And so I knew I was going to be doing some sort of primary care field, but through my training here realized that that for me was going to be family medicine. And I think like many other family docs, I realized I kind of like doing a little of everything. I love seeing kids and adults and delivering babies and doing procedures in the in the office and so ended up choosing family medicine for residency training and obviously continue to practice clinically today. And so for me it's been a long focus on primary care that luckily it worked out perfectly for me and I've been very lucky to have a very fulfilling career thus far. When you were a a youth thinking about this, was it the idea that you would be serving the community, the the public health aspect? What are some of the things that really attracted you? Yeah, I can actually remember being in my interview for the National Service Corps scholarship and there was this question sort of like tell us about your engagement in the community or like your thoughts on community health and I will still vividly remember reflecting on my grandfather who was our postman and the not necessarily impact you know you could say he quote just delivered mail but the ability for him to make connections in our community and to be known as sort of the postman for like 40 years I think it instilled in me this idea of connection to the community and that sort of being a part of your community is somehow integral into our day-to-day lives. And so I still think back to those days and of why I chose to go into primary care field and then even today live in the community that I work in and try to serve. I grew up in a small town in Pennsylvania, 2,000 people and the physicians I knew did everything and they were part of the community and everybody knew them and everybody went to see them and so it was that community thing aspect that was deeply attractive to me. I also didn't I enjoyed everything in medical school. I did a neurology rotation. Thought I wanted to be a neurologist. I did trauma surgery. I loved it. I think if I had not done genmed, I would have been a trauma surgeon. But I found that I liked everything so much that the best way to fulfill all those needs was to do general medicine. How about you, Ada? How did you get into this field? Well, it appears as though my journey may mirror a little bit of both of yours. I actually remember at a very young age I wanted to get into a field where I could help people and I was born in the United States and moved back with my family to Nigeria. Even though we lived in the suburbs at that time, my parents made the effort to have us visit our villages back home where they grew up before they left to gain their education. And I remember being really impacted by the fact that there were people there who got sick and died of diseases that were really preventable just simply because they didn't have the education or the resources to be able to take care of themselves. And so I going into medicine became natural in a sense because I loved biology. I was thinking about law but when my mother told me that I'll have to defend people who are guilty that quickly uh made me change my mind. And so fast forward to coming back to the United States, completing my education and I initially was interested in pediatrics because I loved working with children and I started to realize I was really interested in preventative care because I really felt that was a big focus in terms of preventing people from getting sick in the first place. And eventually during medical school, I realized I loved all facets of medicine, all people. And with my interest in preventative medicine, I realized really quickly that I also like public health and that allowed me to get trained in public health. I got my masters during medical school actually. And eventually I'm really fortunate to as a family physician have the opportunity to practice seeing adults and children as well. And I did also National Health Service Corps. With that, my interest in underserved medicine became evident. I worked in federal qualified health centers for many years. Currently, I'm with Lancaster General Health in a location that also is in a city that has a high portion of people with diverse backgrounds. I currently am the co-chair of our DEI, diversity, equity, and inclusion council because I have that continued interest in trying to make sure that people have access to health care and are treated fairly regardless of their background. And so that's what keeps me passionate about primary care. So, you know, as you were expressing, I I was thinking to myself, you know, that the first line of defense for health and disease is the public health work that is done, clean water, vaccinations that are distributed in the community and so forth. And then you get up from that and there we are, right? We're the ones that are individualizing all of that knowledge to specific patients, right? Exactly. you know, so I think let's just talk about clinically and I'll just throw some things out about what attracted me from a clinical perspective. So, first, as many of you know and I've said on this podcast, I practice hospice medicine for about 15 years. And that has great advantages that we can talk about later and how that compares to primary care. But the thing I missed was the patient continuity. I also felt that I was often seeing diseases where the horse was already out of the barn. Most hospitalizations in this country are folks that are chronically ill and their hospitalizations are often the result of either long years of sort of poorly treated illnesses or the lack of really continuity of care in the community outside of the hospital. And I found more and more what I was most interested in in a hospital-based environment is how we could get people back into good primary care because that was the bedrock. That was the foundation. That's where real work could be done in keeping people healthy. And so, you know, it was really that idea of continuity and also the idea of the fact that as a primary care physician, you're really connected to everyone in the care environment. I mean, you are the sort of quarterback, if you will, of the team and people rely on you in that way. Yeah. I mean, Kendall, I can jump in. I mean, certainly now I've been lucky enough to be a pen for the past 14 years and so have been able to establish those longitudinal relationships with many of my patients, the family units that I care for. And I think on both ends of the sort of age spectrum, it's been really amazing to think back to the kids I delivered 14 years ago who are now getting into adolescence, went to high school, and as well as the older individuals who have aged and many of whom have passed at this point and I've helped they and their families perhaps deal with the loss of a loved one or the end of life issues that come up as we think about that portion of our lives. And so certainly that idea of these longitudinal relationships, caring for family units or groups of individuals and understanding their social contexts, Adah mentioned the idea of thinking about our the social needs of our individuals and the work she's done in fally qualified health centers. I think all of that understanding I think you're right is the bedrock to, you know, what we do dayto-day. I definitely agree with that perspective and even taking it a step further as well looking at what we do as you said the bedrock the fragmentation of health care really currently is unfortunate because if one thinks of the way things used to be the primary care provider being the base right and I tell people as your primary care provider I'm kind of like your center I'm there all the time to ensure things are stable and specialists are there for us to consult but at the end of the today your primary care provider is your home and that's why we call your primary care home and I feel like really more needs to be done to kind of bring that picture back whether it's from the emergency room with specialists you know stating to them do you have a home do you have a primary care provider that's what they're there for having someone who can coordinate all your care in one place and really I think that really will tie into the purpose of primary care also which comes to prevention because if you have people only going to their specialists when they need something or specialists manage things just in on the periphery. It really doesn't get to the sense of the whole person. So really with your comments, it really just kind of hones in to the reality. We really need to bring the concept of primary care and the purpose of that back to the reality of how medicine is practiced or how healthcare is practiced here in the United States. Now just in terms of highlighting the importance of primary care, I agree and I think a lot of graduates of medical schools want that kind of experience, want that focus. I even get subsp specialty notes back from cardiologists and others and they're doing primary care, you know, and some of them are sort of quasi primary care physicians and I think to myself, you really should have just done primary care. You could have done most of what you do now. So, let's talk about, you know, you're a graduate coming out of residency and maybe you haven't necessarily had the background that you had where you kind of know that you wanted to go into primary care. you're more undifferentiated, similar to what I was, I think, and you're looking at a field that will have those rewarding features, but then it's often, I think, the practical stuff that gets trip that trips people up, the pay, right? So, primary care pay has historically been lower than other specialties and the the idea that you really are taking on so much. you know, you're taking on the care of maybe 1,500 to 1,800 patients and all of their concerns and managing all of that and that requires some out of out of office work in order to sort of be responsive in that way. So Joe, you're I I know involved in recruiting for a residency program in family medicine and folks that are thinking about going into primary care and then you're also helping to place people in primary care jobs once they finish a a residency program. How what are your thoughts on the pay issue and sort of the idea of just being sort of overworked and overchallenged? Yeah, I mean certainly on the pay issue, you know, it's going to be a while if ever that we're going to make the same amount of money as a neurosurgeon. we got a big gap to close there. But I think certainly even at the national level, I think we're seeing a small shift in even CMS's way that they're going to start reimbursing medical services in this country. And so I think we're acknowledging that number one, there probably needs to be more incentivization within primary care from a financial perspective in order to get the medical student who is thinking about it not disincentivized because they're not going to make as much money as their colleague who's graduating at the same time in a few years. And so little things like the fact that the reimbursement CMS reimbursement has gone down this coming year or is proposed to go down which is not a great thing obviously for health systems or in medical community in general. But then CMS activated this G2211 code to give individuals or clinicians who have longitudinal relationships with their patients longitudinal care some additional benefit or additional financial incentive to maintain those longitudinal relationships and longitudinal care. And so even though it was a small shift, I think we will see actually our the clinicians across our system and all the systems in the country if they're providing longitudinal relationships and care for chronic disease, you will see a bump in your pay if you're, you know, using that code. And so I think CMS acknowledged they didn't want to they basically want to try to shave some dollars but not do it from primary care. So I think that's a small example. And then also you can look at models of shared savings within acco models and other shared savings models where primary care in many instances become becomes a significant beneficiary of those dollars when we're able to actually save money and reduce costs for our health systems and patients. And so I think we're heading in the right direction. We've got a lot of ground to cover. But I think we I think the system and the country has acknowledged that you we can't continue down the same path we've continued for this many years. The second question around kind of the what it looks like in terms of the burnout and just the stress that comes with this job. I think I'm optimistic that I we've hit I would say maybe a nater or sort of the low point of our work if you want to use the term work life balance or however you want to phrase that the amount of work we're doing after hours from an you know in basket effort perspective and all the additional things you mentioned Kendall in terms of like that stuff that keeps us working at 7 o'clock or 8:00 at night. I think the country not with even within primary care but within the field of medicine I think is has knowledge that it's not sustainable. We have people quitting leaving the field and also hesitant to enter the field because of what they hear. And so I think we as a health system and many others but I think we're all taking a much more active role in this. And so even within pen medicine you're seeing many more efforts to try to reduce inbasket effort support documentation to make writing our notes easier with use of AI and other ambient listening technologies. We're getting additional support from enhanced care team members such as our NP and PA colleagues. We're all working I think much more collaboratively to try to solve for these problems. And I am very hopeful that our lives I think that pendulum is going to swing back a little bit towards a more sustainable model of care for the primary care clinicians within our system and beyond. Adah, what are your experiences with that aspect? I mean both the pay issue and the work life balance issue. I think in regards to the pay issue, it's a reality. People know going into primary care that your income is not going to be the same as a surgeon. As was said previously, I feel one strong aspect really should be financial education should really start much sooner in medical school. I feel that if you go into life with less debt, especially in primary care, you feel more comfortable moving forward. I saw a lot of colleagues who made poor financial decisions even in medical school with kind of cars they bought etc. choices in terms of loans, you know, how to apply for scholarships, how to just save. And I feel it's unfortunate, especially because people feel they're going into quote unquote, even though they're not going to be a surgeon like some of their colleagues, they're still going to be higher paid than other friends they went to school with or college with. So, people go in spending and feeling like, oh, you know, I'm going to pay down the road. So I feel like financial management I know some institutions are starting to do that sooner rather than later but I really feel that starting that concept much earlier in medical school education would be helpful so that people as their lives unfold feel comfortable as a primary care provider throughout their lives in regards to burnout as a mother who has young children that are transitioning in school is a reality and yes I do have a lot of colleagues and yes perhaps also female colleagues who are in this stage of life who it's a reality in terms of balancing family life and wanting to be perfect in your work, perfect at home and a lot of the things that being a mother brings with it. I feel that institutions aside from what was um mentioned flexibility and recognizing that and I think more places are recognizing that too being flexible allowing your staff to understand if you have concerns bring them to your management having managers trained to be flexible if someone has a concern if someone needs something or being astute how can we make it work how thinking outside of the box everything doesn't have to be the 9-to-f5 and so that flexibility with management and also empowering ing staff to feel that they can bring ideas in terms of their schedule can be very empowering to making feel people feel less burdened. So I feel that training or however empowering managers and physicians to think outside of the box in terms of how to organize their work life balance and not being made guilty to feel that way and it can be beneficial because even if people modify their hours then they become happier more productive etc. So I think that really in terms of flexibility with scheduling and flexibility with how work is set up can be empowering and can help with burnout as it's occurring now. I hope we're at the nair, but if things continue the way they are, I feel until the near future just empowering people to think outside of the box in terms of their schedules and also in terms of medicine can be practiced in many different ways and people can start thinking outside of the box on that as well. Primary care can be practiced in many different ways. So people flexibility I feel is going to be a key way people use to circumvent burnout and what's going on in society within healthcare. So, normally as a host I ask the questions, but I'm actually going to add a little bit here because I have this background. I started in primary care and then was in hospitalist medicine and then went back to primary care. And I would just want to add a few things. First off, the pay is much better than it used to be. It is far better and it's pretty good comparatively. And so especially when you get to those issues that uh D you're raising you know a specialty fellowship is another three years often maybe two but three and if you're doing a surgical it's even it can be four five even up to eight for neurosurgery of training beyond beyond medical school right and so you're getting out into the work environment on a full salary much quicker when you go into primary care generally after a three-year residency program and the pay is good by any measure. I do think that there have been significant improvements in work life balance in my career from when I came out as a resident what was expected of me which was pretty rough to be honest now what is expected of me I don't find it all that challenging partly because I was so used to the other model but I think work life balance is something that can be struck quite well within primary care when any job you take in medicine is going to require things of I mean, you're not being paid to do nothing. You're being paid to work hard and see patients and so forth. But if we think of these jobs as largely weekday jobs, largely without a lot of evening responsibilities that, you know, it's very manageable often times with time built in for administrative work. So you can follow up on your inbox issues and you know it's also time that you could take your kid to the pediatrician if you have to and catch up with the inbox later. I personally don't find it that burdensome. So I'm just going to throw that out there. I know that we're at the nater of the perspective of primary care, but I think it's a great field. I don't think it's any more difficult than any other and I think the pay has improved dramatically and there are opportunities for more pay both within the valuebased framework that we did to a couple of podcasts about how that's changing. So there's this whole pot of money that insurance companies have historically sat upon, right? They're getting premiums from our patients, right? and they're sitting on that money and then we're managing their health concerns. And now there's this greater sharing of that pot of money with the providers who are actually protecting the patients and and supporting the patients. And that's a big pot of money. It's actually a much larger pot of money than the actual money that is associated with just doing providing the services. And so as those models develop, I think primary care reimbursement will increase dramatically. I do think the other part of it it just being somebody came out of an internal medicine residency and also for those that are coming out of family medicine residencies, moonlighting is also an option and as more and more jobs do not involve a lot of weekend work or nighttime work and some of us were used to that coming out of residency. There are really some real opportunities to supplement with just clinical moonlighting and uh I've done that throughout my career. I'd learned a ton doing moonlighting and also was able to afford some things here and there that were needed. So I don't find the salary issues to be as pressing certainly as they were back in the day as they say. Yes, I agree and I am glad that you put some perspective there which was why I really wanted to highlight that medicine changes and flexibility is always key. And I described some of the concepts I had as ways that one can say okay medicine has changed in this because when I completed my residency medicine was different from EMR wasn't there there were paper charts it was easy to kind easier to scribble and document and move on and so there were certain things that were easier to do to get through one's day and then fast forward to now but there's always flexibility. So like you're stating there are different ways one can get different streams of income etc. Different ways one can structure their day that may have been different from 10 years ago but I thank you for your perspective because it really highlights that thing of flexibility. I think if primary care providers realize or in any field that no matter what comes in the environment I can own my flexibility and I can say okay is there something additional I want to do moonlighting or coaching or etc or can I structure my day differently in 10 years it'll be different in another 10 years it'll be different but the key is always to feel that you own your flexibility and you could always ask within your system and see what can change to allow you to go through that part of your journey in a comfortable way and I Kendall and I think we think about granular examples. I think Kendall to your point about we hope that people have free time and and I think we're working towards increasing that free time. I think one example for us even here at Pen Medicine is we are our goal is to eliminate overnight call for all of our primary care clinicians and move that to a central model where patients can get virtual care 247. But that the idea of all of us being on call at on the weekends or the nights and we take turns and we cover for the practice and we get phone calls at two in the morning I think is really going away and we were moving already towards eliminating that. Several of our practices are already in the model. It's been terrific. But I think to your point then if oh well let's now if I never have to take call do I have opportunities and ad to your point like with the idea of autonomy and flexibility maybe I want to do some moonlighting or maybe I don't feel like I need to make more money and I'm just going to go learn how to dance or whatever it is that brings us joy. I think the hope for all of us as we move forward and I think we're getting into the next part of this conversation and that is working for Penn specifically. I've had the benefit of working at two major academic health centers both at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center and now here at Penn and the environments have been terrific collegial just constant education that is happening just a wonderful environment. I'm very actually excited about the Penn one. I think Penny Care is a wonderful place to work. Um, so Joe, you know, you just highlighted one aspect. The after hours call is being sort of consolidated into what we call pen medicine on demand. So your patients when they call in, unless there's something that they need to speak with you that's very specific in your relationship with them, but if it's just a new issue that has arisen, they'll be filtered through and set up to see pen medicine on demand. So now we're really protected in our non non-clinical time as you said allowing for other benefits. Let's talk more about the pen environment. Let me just say I think the pay is competitive certainly with other health systems. Joe you can speak to that more than I and there are opportunities for as Adah had elucidated I think there are opportunities to stay at one's pay if if you don't wish to work more but there and especially in a place like Penn there are opportunities to somewhat dramatically increase one's pay if you are you do need to and you do want to work more than just the weekdays for instance yeah I mean certainly that decision-m capacity at different points in our lives there are different priorities and the ability to decide to push a little harder this year and see some more patients and get the benefit of that or maybe this year there's going to be something going on in your life or that allow that maybe you decide that it's time to cut back a little bit and I'm going to have to pay attention to some other aspect of my life or family and so certainly that idea of autonomy is certainly a key key aspect Kendall that I think is certainly a key element within employment of pen medicine and then certainly the idea that we have other support. So, we already mentioned Pen Medicine on Demand. You know, I'm leading a project right now that's being funded through a grant mechanism within Penn called the Clifton Wellness Fund that was set up to basically help find novel ways to support wellness within our physicians and clinicians. And so, we are going to be studying two different inbasket management strategies. One is an inboxologist um model which I think has been used elsewhere and is we'll be studying across both Lancaster General Health and the rest of pen primary care and sort of almost I would say we're calling a modern template arm which is essentially accounting for all that extra work. We know every 4-hour session thereabouts produce up to an hour of additional work afterwards phone calls and results and all that. So you know how are we going to plan to do that work? This is all facilitated in the future and even now by these valuebased programs where if we don't have to be on that hamster wheel just worrying about fee for service dollars and RVUs all the time. How can we actually structure a day so that when the clock strikes 5:00, you can roll up your sleeves, get out of there, shut your computer down, and actually just go pay attention to your life or your family. And so I think we're excited about the ability to really shift the effort into the daytime hours and relieve our clinicians of that after hours burden. So it's exciting to be engaged at work this year. Adon, I'm going to let you jump in here if you have anything you want to add. Yes. I took a few minutes to like really reflect what is it about working at Pen Medicine that really keeps me engaged and and excited and my location now at Longister General Health. I know one of the things that really drew me to the institution and at that time we were already a group with pen medicine really I I know I keep saying that word but as a mother and a wife and an individual in mid-career that word of flexibility was really key to me and really attractive and also the sense of connection to community and so working in a place where you know as my as he said if this year if I want to work more and get more hours. There was the flexibility to float and cover at other locations and sites if for any reason I wanted to cut back for whatever reason. There wasn't that environment of being dinged upon or looked down upon. It was that flexibility was there. If you need it, let us know and we'll see how we can make it happen. And that's one of the beautiful things that really attracts me and keeps me engaged at Lancaster General Health. And you can see that they keep keeping their managers engaged in terms of putting their finger on the pulse, checking in with staff. And so that's really is a key part. And I know different people are drawn to different, you know, institutions for different reasons, but I feel like in this age with the generation of physicians that are coming into practice now, flexibility and well-being is key. And so hopefully hearing that would be a a strong motivating factor for looking at a place like pen medicine. In addition, connection to community also was very key to me. And I'd like this to general health, they do have a presence in the community and a lot of programs and projects that they intentionally want to see their community better. And even towards Philadelphia, I could see that pen medicine also had such similar concept inside approach to how they connected with the community in terms of projects and collaborating with area organizations. When one has been in the system for a while, they may not see that, but when you've been to different institutions and you come in, you recognize that there are levels. And so really I say that connection to community can be very key and especially for a primary care provider because that's kind of one of the things that draws you to primary care is taking care of the family as a whole. And so understanding that you're part of an institution that takes that as a priority can be important for a lot of people especially when one is trying to think of taking care of a patient beyond just the clinic. What's going on in their environment? What's happening in the community around where I practice. So I'll say connection to community is also something that I really applaud that Lancaster general health and pen medicine as well takes takes steps toward sincere steps toward is trying to facilitate and that can be important in primary care for variety of providers. So hopefully a different perspective. I think one of the things that Penn Medicine does offer because it now is a relative it it is a diverse health network that really goes obviously out to Princeton out to Lancaster and then within the Philadelphia more specific region has suburban practices has city-based practices that you really have an opportunity to practice to choose I guess to practice within a diverse range of environments and Penn has done a very nice job in the last 20 years and done it intentionally of really expanding its community-based presence. Joe, I think just the department of family medicine and community health and how that has grown and in its mission and its operations really what it does within Philadelphia more specifically, but even generally the university as a whole has prioritized developing community connections and that has produced more opportunities. So, I've had friends and colleagues who have done obviously may have a pen-based practice, but they're also actually working in a federally qualified health center and they're having the practice base there, but they're paid for by Penn. And then, of course, Penn has expanded its own practice into a larger variety of places. So there's really a tremend Yeah. I mean it definitely I think broadly for primary care and and certainly specifically within pen medicine what all of our jobs looks like are look like are very different and even through our careers they look different. I think if if you probably looked at any of our careers Kendall you've already made reference to yours. what we did a few years ago is uh and so I think certainly within primary care more broadly and and within medicine that ability to adapt our career path over time is a huge advantage and I think it's also comes with the benefit of being part of a big health system there's some flexibility there's scope there's resources that'll allow us to have the privilege of making some decisions and trying things out and then fig figure out where we fit at different points in our career two other things I want to highlight and Joe I want to have you comment on and Ada as well is just in the work environment itself. The support staff I personally feel very well supported and impressively so in comparison to what I experienced 20 years ago and I worked in a very I think a very fine program at the time. It's just that the support staff has dramatically increased since that time. Joe, maybe you can comment on what Penn's been doing in that regard. Yeah, I mean I agree. I mean since even just in the 14 years I've been at Penn, who's working around me looks totally different, right? like you know years past it was basically me, the medical assistant and then a nurse was somewhere answering phone calls or whatever it was and likely perhaps even a different building and then today you look around and certainly that core care team is still there but you know absolutely there are more nurses around for most of us. We have a lot of expanded care team members. So the fact that we have care managers, integrated behavioral health professionals, there's a myriad of other in some departments a myriad of other roles. So peer health or peer support specialists for individuals with substance use disorder. You know, you can keep going down the list of the expansion of our care team has been tremendous. Much of that change has been through value based dollars and other novel payment mechanisms that allow us to focus on those. So I think again it's I think if we look at our landscape of primary care across the country and and even in medicine that idea of what primary care is these days has really adapted and it's been amazing to be part of that change and look around and feel much more balanced in my own life. It definitely feels better to have all this support around you. I don't have to worry about being a social worker and the behavioral health specialist at the same time while also trying to provide medical care. So it's really been a great transformation we've seen. One of my least favorite things in life are mindless form signing or mindless refills. But I will say the support staff tease all that up. It happens very quickly and I don't find over myself overly burdened by it. So even on that sort of operating at the top of your license piece where you're really doing the thing you went to medical school to do and you feel fulfilled by that that a lot of the stuff that I think that maybe in the early 2000s or even 1990s people were leaving primary care because they just were overwhelmed with the administrative bureaucracy. I don't see that anymore. So the last thing I wanted to tackle was literally the benefits of working in a pen environment. not just sort of the qualitative benefits that we've been talking about, but the actual quantitative benefits, right? So, obviously, health insurance and other benefits that come with having a good job, but there are additional benefits of working in an academic environment. I think tuition benefits is the main thing that comes to mind in that setting. Joe, can you speak to that? Yeah. So I think this is where there's a little diversity in terms of where you're employed within certain health systems and certainly pen medicine that I think we have to acknowledge that some of the clinicians in our health system have some tuition benefits for themselves or dependents. Others have slightly different benefits packages. But I think across the board the ability to work for a system like Pen Medicine certainly brings some pros when we think about compensation and sort of these sort of somewhat less common benefits what we were just talking about. And so I think when you look at employment with us, you're certainly, you know, we talked about the pay already. We I think we're competitive. And I think being in primary care these days has gotten better as you already mentioned, Kendall. And I think choosing to be at a place like Pen Medicine also brings with it these additional benefits that when you're thinking about comparing a job A to job B, really, I would encourage all of anybody listening, if you're in that job hunt, to really start asking questions about what are the other things I can expect from my employer around some of the things you mentioned. There's also things within the health benefits people don't necessarily even think about necessarily early on. But I think really digging into those benefits and understanding what it means to be at a place like pet medicine from the total compensation and the total offer that you're being that's being put in front of you is really critical. In regards to the benefits, I wanted to add that there are additional ones as well that may seem obvious, but again, by being at a variety of different institutions, I can say the CME package here is a very, very competitive and very strong in regards to health care and healthcare benefits. Definitely something to look into because there options where one may not necessarily need to pay anything extra out of your paycheck for health insurance. And there are also a lot of other benefits as well in regards to depending on your location. But there are many discounts that one can get. Um again if you depending on your interests but if you tap into that there are a lot of discounts for variety of community events locations that one can get through um a variety of different locations such as here at Lancaster General Health. So by the time you get the significant savings of amusement parks and plays and fairs etc. those things can add up especially when you're trying to keep children entertained child care etc in terms of discounts one can get so a lot of healthy and that's the benefit of being with a big organization they're able to negotiate a lot of discounts so definitely something to look into as well and also access to financial planning etc if one wants to tap into that there are a lot of resources that can be available so yeah just wanted to kind of add to what was said in regards to benefits and there are also opportun unities for training. So again, every institution is different, but if one is interested in leadership training or in terms of his coaching, there are opportunities to be involved in things like that and those are benefits that one can't quantify. So those exists at uh some of those locations. So those are additional benefits as well in terms of career advancement that one can be involved in in terms of personal development. So I wanted to add to that as well. Thank you, Ada. There's one other issue I want to say from a personal perspective and then I'm going to invite actually Jessica Mroy who is the physician recruiter for Penn to just make some comments about some of the specifics of working at Penn. But I wanted to speak to those coming out of residency programs who are thinking about jobs in the future. Many of us who train in residency train mostly in an inpatient environment and then we're looking at jobs that would be in an outpatient environment and maybe we're not completely comfortable. And so I think that's funneling a lot of what could be very good primary care physicians into hospitalist medicine and I was one of them for a while and hospitalist medicine has wonderful benefits and I enjoyed my career there. But I think that there is still room for folks who want to do both. And the environment is changing, but I know hospitalist leadership within the pen environment is open to ways that we can craft jobs that allow for some flexibility and so forth. It does depend on the location and so forth in the local location. But for those folks coming out of residency and are interested in still doing both inpatient and outpatient medicine, I think there's some opportunities there at Penn. So with that, Jessica, you've been listening in. Jessica Mroy is a physician recruiter for Penn. You've been listening to our discussion and and I just want to ask if there's anything you would like to add. Thanks so much. So I lead provider recruitment, physician recruitment for the non-academic regional practices across all of Penn Medicine. My career interest is really to look at the physician as an individual and identify the right place and the right time for them based on what's going on in their life. Understand who they are and what their interests are from a patient perspective, from a practice perspective, as well as from a professional and growth perspective. Pen medicine has an academy that focuses on leadership development as well as a career trajectory to kind of be a lead clinician or a regional leader. You know, Dr. Teal and his particular role as the regional chief and many other capacities within the organization where somebody can start and and stay in their career. From an overall benefits perspective, we have a very rich benefits package and think that we have a competitive compensation package that focuses on things like productivity and quality incentives and those are really kind of current with what's happening in the overall primary care marketplace. Some of the unsaid benefits that people want to think about in more greater detail are focused on things like wellness, things like their clinical time and how they spend their time outside of seeing patients. And we hope to continue to work at that. It's actually on our strategic plan. So, our goal is to be the most clinicianfriendly health system. And we have a lot of work ahead of us and already underway to get us there. Well, thank you, Jessica. Thank you Ada. Thank you Dr. Teal for all everyone for joining this discussion. We just wanted this to be an opportunity to talk to recruit a little bit to both primary care generally but also to the pen environment. So thanks for allowing us to do that. We're going to be diving back into clinical topics next time. So please join us again next time for the pen primary care podcast. Please note that this podcast is for educational purposes only. For specific questions, please contact your physician. And if an emergency, please call 911 or go to the nearest emergency departments.