I think it is really important to think about fit when you're choosing a residency program. It's a place that you're going to experience a lot of personal growth, character development. So, it's important to figure out where you're going to thrive. I knew when coming here I would get rigorous clinical training development as a leader in medical education and then also mentorship in using research as a medium for advocacy and innovation. We're both a community hospital for our patients that are local and then we are a cordinary center. We have some of the highest acuity patients and so our residents get that full spectrum. I think it's an incredibly exciting opportunity and I think it provides a really rich learning environment for residents. We are really proud of the resources that we have. We're really proud of the camaraderie that we developed throughout the years and this is going to have a lot of impact for us in the future. I think what is unique about training here at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania is the opportunity to have both the top-notch clinical training with integration into all of our subsp specialty and specialty services and additionally have all of the resources that are afforded at the University of Pennsylvania. I did my residency here and I chose to stay here for a fellowship because I knew the opportunities would go beyond training to be an excellent surgeon. For me personally, I completed the medical education certificate and I'm actually pursuing one of the post-graduate degrees. Even though my fellowship was outside of OBJN, my mentors and attendings here really went out of their way to see what was the best way they could support me in that process. We really put a lot of energy and time in thinking about creating a positive learning environment, a culture where we respect each other, where we learn from each other. And I cannot emphasize enough how important that is to our faculty, to me as the chair, to our trainees. It is exactly what brings us to work every day. So no task is too small for anyone, no question is too small. We really all work together and there's really a true sense of teamwork here at hub. We're offered different rotations and exposures to various subsp specialties. So that includes opportunities like structured EMIG practice as well as a formal robotics curriculum. We are probably one of very few OBGYn departments in the country that have NIH RO1 funding across all of our divisions. We have six divisions which speaks to a culture that really focuses on research, supports research and feels that that's the way we train the next generation of leaders and that's how we advance the field. We have been able to add on different opportunities such as our healthcare leadership and quality track. Some residents have pursued medical education as an interest. Some residents have also pursued global health and we've incorporated new tracks in all of these areas. I think when I interviewed here, I saw how close all the residents were and what a family kind of feel it was. I've gone from having amazing attendings that were my mentors that are now some of my best friends and colleagues. We are there for one another for the good or the bad. They have been a tremendous help to me, especially being far from home. They have been supporting me throughout this journey and I love them so dearly. Residency is a time when people are often thinking about expanding their families. I had my first kiddo during residency. My colleagues and my co-residents helped take care of me and brought my son into this world. Hub does certainly serve a diverse population from the demographic standpoint and this was really something that really attracted me to the program. We are situated in the middle of West Philadelphia. Many of our patients come from this area. Residents are in from the ground up. We incorporate the community in a lot of the work that we do and our residents are involved in that too. We know this is extremely important in terms of patient outcomes, in terms of trust. And to me, that's when I knew I wanted to come here. I was like sold. The residents are very like-minded and have similar values of inclusivity, respect. This department has as a core tenant this commitment to equity. So I don't do any of this work alone and really I lean on the residents a lot to be our eyes and ears as to the things that we need to continue to work on. Philadelphia is just an incredible city. If you're a big foodie, there's always new restaurants opening up. It's an easy commute by either public transportation. A lot of folks bike. You can walk to work if you want. The people are incredible. There's so much diversity. the proximity to be able to travel to get to DC, to get to New York, to get to the airport. Our residents who graduate go on to do many different things and feel well prepared when they return to tell us about it. So many of our residents do go on to pursue subsp specialty fellowship training and some of our residents do go on to academic specialist practice as well. So, our residents are really prepared to be leaders wherever their career takes them next. It's definitely a privilege to train somewhere like hub. Belonging to the hub family is something that I take with pride. Whenever you are a part of the hub family, you're always a part of the hub family. You have one of the best medical schools in the country to a full spectrum of highly ranked fellowship programs to faculty who are national and often international experts in their fields but also still consider themselves to be lifelong learners. And that is a really dynamic and exciting place and environment in which to train.