 Do you know that coffee is the second most traded commodity in the world? Do you know that coffee is the second most traded commodity in the world? Surpassed only by crude oil. Due to its widespread use and addictive nature, coffee was even banned in the 16th century by some religious leaders. They deemed coffee as a bitter invention of Satan and tried to prohibit its consumption. However, these attempts were largely unsuccessful and coffee continued to gain popularity worldwide. Some of the major benefits associated with coffee include enhancing your memory and lowering the risk of developing diabetes, Alzheimer's disease and liver cancer. Nevertheless, depending upon how you consume your coffee, there are some unique benefits. There are thousands of ways coffee is prepared in different parts of the world, but the two most common ones are black coffee and milk coffee. In this video, we will take a look at how black coffee differs from milk coffee chemically and which type of coffee is healthier. In the end, we will also talk about which type of coffee you should drink and avoid in certain situations. Before we jump into the comparison, let's talk about the key players here. Dark coffee, also known as black coffee, is a classic option enjoyed by many for its rich flavors and bold taste. On the other hand, milk coffee is a combination of coffee and milk offering a creamy and milder experience. Dark coffee is known for its simplicity. It's just coffee beans brewed with hot water without any additives. It contains very few calories, zero fat and has virtually no sugar. It's also packed with antioxidants and can potentially boost your metabolism. Scientifically, it is the milk proteins that merge with coffee globules to give rise to the signature taste that characterizes lattes and cappuccinos. Researchers at Nestle Research Centre in Switzerland conducted a study to investigate the effects of milk and non-dairy creamer on the availability of polyphenols, which are the main type of antioxidants found in coffee. After giving healthy adults various types of coffee, including black coffee and coffee with milk, blood samples were taken to measure the bioavailability of polyphenols or the level of polyphenols in the blood. The study found out that adding milk to coffee delayed the absorption of polyphenols from the gut, but did not impact the overall amount that was delivered to the blood. This research concluded that polyphenols are eventually absorbed completely from the gut regardless of whether coffee is consumed with or without milk. So, the question is, which coffee is healthy and which one should you drink? Since almost majority of the health benefits of coffee come from polyphenols it contains, both milk coffee and black coffee are healthy if consumed in moderation. And ultimately, it comes to your taste preference. However, there are certain situations where you should avoid black coffee and certain situations where you should avoid milk coffee. Let's talk about a few of them. If you want to lose weight and you are following a weight loss program, consuming black coffee will help you achieve your goal. Black coffee has significantly lower calories as compared to coffee with milk. One cup of black coffee has less than 5 calories. In contrast, coffee that contains sugar and milk has an astounding 56.6 calories per cup. Black coffee also boosts your metabolism, which is a key when trying to lose weight. Consuming pure black coffee energizes you, giving you much more mental awareness and clarity, since there is no cream or milk to limit its absorption. But drinking a cup of black coffee in the evening may end up keeping you awake for a long time late into the night. For those who have difficulty sleeping at night, experts recommend not having any coffee, whether black or with milk, especially after sunset. But if you are planning to do something important in the evening and you start to feel sleepy, taking coffee with milk would be the healthier option and will keep you from disturbing your sleep patterns. Always remember the key to consuming coffee in a healthy way and enjoy its benefits is to drink coffee in moderation. Limit your coffee intake to less than 5 cups a day. Also, you should never drink coffee first thing in the morning, especially on an empty stomach. I am a major coffee lover myself and I used to drink coffee all the time, probably more than 10 cups a day. But since a few years, I started noticing the side effects of consuming too much coffee. Now, I consume coffee in moderation and that helps me in a lot of ways. In our upcoming videos, we will talk in detail about the side effects of excessive coffee consumption. So, make sure to subscribe to our channel if you want to be notified about that video. What has been your experience with drinking too much coffee? I also want you to write in the comment section below whether you like black coffee or coffee with milk and why. Thank you so much for watching this video. I hope you liked it. If you did, make sure to hit the like button and subscribe to our channel for the upcoming videos. Take care and stay healthy.