

=== FILE: 5 WARNING Signs You Have Dementia [-0IyFMj4K5M].txt ===

 Imagine the heartache of a spouse who shares decades of memories with their partner, now a stranger in moments of forgetfulness, or the distress of a child, explaining to their parent who they are. Picture the emotional turmoil of a family as they adjust to the new reality of providing care, while mourning the loss of the person they once knew. Dementia is a very challenging illness. It not only affects a person who develops it, but also has a very huge emotional toll on their loved ones, leading to grief, frustration, and helplessness over family and friends. According to the World Health Organization, more than 55 million people worldwide live with dementia, and more than 10 million new cases are diagnosed every year. And while Alzheimer's disease is the most common reason of dementia, it's not the only cause. The purpose of this video is to educate you about what dementia really is, and what are the early signs of dementia that usually go unnoticed. Understanding these early indicators is the first step towards early detection, which can significantly influence the course of action of their illness. Now let's start and talk about five of these early signs of dementia. 1. Certain changes in short-term memory Now having a bit of trouble with memory is very common and happens with everyone, but when it becomes frequent and repetitive, it can be a very important early sign of dementia. The changes are often subtle and tend to involve the short-term memory. You may be able to remember events that took place years ago, but might find it difficult to remember what you ate for breakfast. A person with dementia may also display other changes in their short-term memory, such as misplacing objects and being unable to recall where they kept them, or having a hard time remembering why they walked into a particular room, and not being able to keep track of what tasks or plans they had set for the day. Now some of these things happen to everyone now and then. However, as mentioned previously, when these incidents start to occur regularly in everyday life, it's a signal to become alert and perhaps seek further advice. 2. Difficulty in communication Another early symptom of dementia is difficulty with communicating thoughts. You may have a hard time explaining something or finding the right words to express yourself. You might end up using a related word or describing the object instead of remembering the exact term for an object. For example, you might say, the thing you sit on instead of a chair. You may also stop in the middle of a sentence and not know how to continue. You might start off with a clear direction, but suddenly lose your train of thought unable to recall what you were discussing. This situation can lead to frustration and sadness. You might feel embarrassed or distressed about your difficulties, potentially leading to social withdrawal. Having a conversation with a person who has dementia can be very challenging, and it may take longer than usual for them to express their thoughts or feelings. 3. Disorientation in time and place It's one thing to briefly forget what day it is or why you entered a room. It's entirely another to lose a sense of time more deeply or to feel lost in places that should feel like home. You're disorientation with time can become severe, affecting your grasp on the passage of time. You might not only forget the day, but could also be confused about the season or even the year. This level of confusion can disrupt your daily routine and make planning or remembering future events a struggle. For you, time might seem to meld together, blurring past, present and future, and complicating everyday life. People living with dementia can become lost on their own street, not knowing how they got there or how to get home. You may head out to the grocery store, a friend's house or even just to the mailbox, and suddenly find yourself unsure of where you are or how to get back home. This loss of spatial awareness is not only frightening for you, but also for your loved ones. It signifies a move from normal age-related memory laps to more serious cognitive impairment. This disorientation occurs because dementia impacts a brain's ability to process and recall information accurately. Parts of your brain responsible for memory, spatial orientation, and understanding time become impaired. As these areas deteriorate, so does your ability to interpret and navigate the world as you once did. Difficulty in performing familiar tasks Difficulty in performing familiar tasks is a significant early sign of dementia. It's more than just forgetting a minor detail here and there, it's when everyday activities become confusing challenges. For instance, you might forget the steps to prepare your favorite dish or the correct order to wear your clothes. Preparing a meal, for example, involves not only just the art of cooking, but also planning what to make, remembering recipes, and managing the time of different components. When dementia enters the picture, these once automatic processes can become confusing mazes. Person might forget critical steps in the recipe, struggle to use kitchen appliances correctly, or be unable to recall why they started cooking in the first place. The inability to carry out familiar tasks can lead to feelings of frustration, sadness, and loss of independence. This change can also affect self-esteem and contribute to social withdrawal, as individuals might become embarrassed about their difficulties and opt out of activities they fear they no longer can manage. Apathy Apathy describes an absence of feeling or emotion. This indifference can affect your motivation and leave you feeling detached from the world. You might stop caring about everyday tasks, hobbies, or personal interests, struggle to show interest and enthusiasm in your personal relationships, feel indifferent to spending time with others, or experience very little emotion or changes in mood. Most people experience apathetic feelings from time to time, especially during times of stress. But persistent apathy can affect your relationships, everyday life, and overall well-being. This change can strain relationships, as friends and family might feel rejected or misunderstood, not realizing that this detachment is part of the disease. You may also notice a stark decrease in the expression of emotions. The highs and lows that characterize a typical emotional spectrum might flatten out. This doesn't mean someone with dementia no longer feels emotions, but the expression of those emotions can become muted. Recognizing apathy as a symptom of dementia is crucial because it can significantly affect quality of life. It can lead to increased isolation and accelerate cognitive decline due to reduced mental engagement. If you have noticed any of these early signs of dementia, please consult with the healthcare professional. Early detection makes a huge difference, and there is support available to help manage this condition. To support the creation of more informative content like this, please consider donating on our Patreon page. Your contributions enable us to keep producing videos that help to educate and support our community. Thank you so much for watching, I'll see you in the next video and take care.

=== FILE: 7 Early Warning Signs of Fatty Liver Disease Revealed [Xokqrm3ChCM].txt ===

 Liver is one of the most important organs of the body, performing numerous vital functions like digestion, metabolism, storage, detoxification, and production of various essential compounds required by the body. Fatty liver, scientifically known as hepatic steatosis, occurs when there is an abnormal accumulation of triglycerides and other fats within liver cells. A healthy, high-functioning liver contains a small amount of fat, which is normal. But fat buildup becomes a problem when it reaches over 5% of your liver's weight. Liver is a vital organ responsible for processing and metabolism of fats in the body. However, when the influx of fats exceeds the liver's capacity for metabolizing them, lipids accumulate within their liver cells, resulting in the development of a fatty liver. Fatty liver disease has become a global health concern, affecting over 25% of adults worldwide, making it one of the most prevalent liver conditions in the world. When fatty liver develops in someone who drinks a lot of alcohol, it's known as alcoholic fatty liver disease. When it develops in someone who doesn't drink a lot of alcohol, it's known as non-alcoholic fatty liver disease or NAFLD. Usually, both alcoholic fatty liver disease and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease present similarly. However, problems arise because fatty liver doesn't produce much symptoms in the early stages. So, by the time the patient usually develops symptoms, the condition has already progressed. That's why it becomes very important to stay alert and note the early signs of development of this condition. So, let's talk about 7 signs and symptoms that may indicate that you have an underlying fatty liver disease. 1. Wage Generalized Symptoms In the initial phases, a patient with fatty liver will develop generalized symptoms like feeling tired all the time, loss of appetite, nausea and abdominal pain. The liver is located on the right side of the abdomen and the discomfort arises as the liver swells up a bit with the accumulation of excess fat. This pain can vary from mild to more noticeable, serving as an early indication of potential liver distress. The liver plays a crucial role in digestion by producing bile, which aids in breaking down fats. But when the fatty liver disease sets in, this process can be disrupted, leading to loss of appetite. Also, the liver's inability to release sufficient bile hinders the absorption of essential nutrients like vitamins and antioxidants. This deficiency can leave individuals feeling fatigued and sluggish all the time. 2. Jaundice Jaundice is a condition characterized by the yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eyes known as sclera. This yellow discoloration results from the accumulation of bilirubin under the skin, a yellow pigment produced during the breakdown of red blood cells. Bilirubin is typically processed by the liver and extruded in the bile. In the presence of fatty liver disease, the liver's efficiency in handling bilirubin is compromised. This can be due to inflammation, cellular damage or impaired liver function associated with the accumulation of fat within the liver cells. 3. Dark Urine Like we discussed earlier, that liver is important for the breakdown and metabolism of bilirubin. So when the liver doesn't function properly due to fatty liver disease, the bilirubin that builds up in the blood also gets excreted in the urine, causing it to turn dark. This condition is called bilirubinuria and can manifest as urine that's dark brown, amber or even cola colored. However, it's crucial to remember that many other factors can cause dark urine, including most commonly dehydration, certain medications, vitamins, supplements and even some foods. So it's a very non-specific sign of fatty liver. But when present with other symptoms like jaundice or abdominal pain or itching, it can be a vital symptom in the diagnosis of a fatty liver. 4. Right Shoulder Pain If your right shoulder, neck, jaw or under the shoulder blade feels painful or tight, it might be linked to a fatty liver. Now like we discussed, the liver produces bile, a liquid that helps to digest fats from food like meat and olive oil. When the liver gets too fatty, the bile becomes thicker and trapped, causing the liver and gallbladder to swell and get inflamed. This swelling puts pressure on the phrenic nerve on the right side, leading to pain in the upper back and neck muscles. This is known as referred pain. Referred pain happens when the actual source of pain is in one area, but the discomfort is felt in another unrelated location. Understanding this connection shows how a fatty liver can be related to discomfort in other parts of the body. 5. Spider Angioma Individuals experiencing liver damage exhibit elevated estrogen levels, as the liver struggles to effectively filter out the surplus hormone. This heightened estrogen presence can contribute to vascular weakening throughout the body, leading to the formation of small spider veins on the skin. These spider veins typically display a central red dot surrounded by reddish extensions emanating from the middle. 6. Gynecomastia Press enlargement in men, also known as gynecomastia, occurs due to an imbalance between the sex hormones, estrogen and testosterone. As most of you know, the levels of hormone testosterone are much higher in men as compared to estrogen. But due to fatty liver disease, the liver is unable to metabolize estrogen, like we discussed earlier in this video. So due to this, the estrogen levels in the body rise and lead to many problems, and one of the most common of them is breast enlargement in men, also known as gynecomastia. Another reason why fatty liver disease leads to gynecomastia is that the liver is also responsible for the production of certain proteins known as glopurins, which keep these hormones in a bound state in the blood. So when the liver function gets down due to fatty liver disease, excess of these hormones become free, due to which they get activated. 7. Generalized Itching of Skin Itchy skin or pruritus is also associated with fatty liver disease. As the liver struggles to process fats efficiently, it can lead to a buildup of bile salts in the bloodstream. This accumulation along with the changes in the balance of certain chemicals contributes to itching sensations on the skin. The impaired liver function can cause bile to leach out and accumulate under the skin, triggering a histamine reaction that induces itching. The palms of hands and soles of the feet are the common areas that get affected by this problem. So these were seven signs that can indicate that you have an underlying fatty liver disease. If you have any of the symptoms, make sure to subscribe to our channel because in future we'll be uploading a video in which we'll discuss how we can treat or manage the fatty liver disease condition. If you like our videos, make sure to support us on patreon.com slash medsimplified as this helps us to make more videos like this. Thank you so much for watching. I'll see you in the next one.

=== FILE: 7 Signs you Have Vitamin 12 Deficiency [PKzOpmoUSyI].txt ===

 Millions of people are unknowingly suffering from vitamin B12 deficiency that can impact everything from their energy levels to their mental health. Are you one of them? This video will help you identify signs and symptoms that you have a vitamin B12 deficiency. Vitamin B12 or cobalamin is a vital nutrient with diverse functions in the body. It plays a crucial role in red blood cell formation, supporting oxygen transport, and maintaining a healthy nervous system. Vitamin B12 is essential for DNA synthesis, energy metabolism, mood regulation, and also supports heart and bone health. Here are seven signs you may have an underlying vitamin B12 deficiency. 1. Numbness and tingling sensations in hands and feet Numbness and tingling, medically referred to as peripheral neuropathy, are common neurological symptoms associated with vitamin B12 deficiency. Vitamin B12 is crucial for synthesis of myelin, a protective sheath that surrounds our nerves. When B12 is deficient, myelin production gets impaired, leading to nerve damage. This damage disrupts the normal functioning of nerves, resulting in abnormal sensations like numbness and tingling. Numbness and tingling are often felt in extremities, such as hands and feet. Patients may describe up-pins and needles sensations or a feeling of reduced sensitivity in these areas. The symptoms can vary in intensity, ranging from mild discomfort to more pronounced sensations. Patients may initially notice subtle sensations that progressively intensify. These sensations may not initially cause significant pain, but can be persistent and noticeable especially during moments of rest or reduced physical activity. In many cases, the numbness and tingling associated with B12 deficiency presents symmetrically, meaning it affects both sides of the body equally. This bilateral involvement is a characteristic feature that helps to distinguish it from other potential causes of peripheral neuropathy. 2. Feeling tired and fatigued all the time Feeling tired or fatigued is one of the most common signs of vitamin B12 deficiency. This occurs because vitamin B12 is necessary to produce an adequate amount of red blood cells that transport oxygen throughout your body. Without enough oxygen in your cells, you'll feel tired and weak, regardless of how much you sleep. It's a subtle symptom, but can significantly impact your daily life and productivity. The fatigue experienced isn't just the ordinary tiredness after a day's work or lack of sleep. It's a profound, chronic fatigue that tends to impede your ability to form everyday activities. You might find yourself needing to rest after simple tasks like walking upstairs or carrying groceries. 3. Pale or yellowish skin Like we discussed, vitamin B12 plays a vital role in the production of red blood cells. In case of its deficiency, immature and defective red blood cells are produced which are not efficient in transport of oxygen in the body. Properly oxygenated blood imparts a reddish hue to the skin, contributing to the healthy complexion, but when the oxygen transport in the blood is reduced, it gives the skin a pale look. Beyond causing paleness, severe vitamin B12 deficiency can lead to jaundice. Jaundice occurs when there is an accumulation of bilirubin, a yellow pigment that's a byproduct of the breakdown of old red blood cells. Normally, the liver processes bilirubin which is then excreted from the body. However, the ineffective and rapid breakdown of the abnormal immature red blood cells in B12 deficiency leads to an increased production of bilirubin. When the liver can't process this surplus bilirubin, it accumulates in the body leading to the yellowing of skin and whites of the eyes. 4. Mood Changes Depression, irritability and changes in mood can also be symptoms of vitamin B12 deficiency. While the exact mechanism isn't fully understood, it's believed that B12 plays a role in the synthesis of neurotransmitters such as serotonin and dopamine, which affects mood. Serotonin is often called the feel-good neurotransmitter contributing to the feelings of happiness and well-being, while dopamine is associated with the reward system of the brain, influencing motivation and pleasure. Deficiency in B12 may disrupt the balance of these neurotransmitters, leading to mood disturbances and even depression. Researchers in a 2005 article published in the Journal of Psychopharmacology reviewed studies of depression and low vitamin B12 status. They found substantial evidence that a decrease in the vitamin B12 serum levels correlates with an increase in the prevalence of depression. 5. Cognitive Problems Vitamin B12 deficiency can lead to significant cognitive difficulties, impacting the brain's functioning in various ways. Cognitive difficulties basically mean having trouble with the thinking process. It's like when your brain is finding it hard to do its job. This can include problems with remembering things, paying attention, learning new information, making decisions, understanding things correctly and solving problems. One of the most common cognitive symptoms associated with vitamin B12 deficiency is memory impairment. Individuals may find it challenging to remember recent events, appointments or even conversations. In severe and prolonged cases of vitamin B12 deficiency, there can be structural changes in the brain, leading to an increased risk of neurodegenerative diseases, including dementia. This lack of B12 can harm the protective coating of nerve cells, the myelin, and this coating, like we discussed, is very important for the fast and smooth conduction of messages in the nervous system. When it gets damaged, it can cause major problems with thinking and memory skills. 6. Vision Problems Since vitamin B12 is very important for the health and proper functioning of our nerves, people with B12 deficiency can experience vision problems as the nerves connecting the eyes to our brain get damaged over time. These nerves are known as optic nerves and the condition is known as optic neuropathy. It can lead to symptoms like blurred vision or even total loss of vision. There might be noticeable change in how colors are perceived, with the colors appearing less vibrant. Individuals may also experience a reduction in their field of vision, meaning they can't see as wide an area as they normally would. The vision changes caused by vitamin B12 deficiency can often be reversed with prompt treatment, especially if the deficiency is caught early. 7. Mouth Ulcers Mouth ulcers, also known as canker sores, are another common symptom of vitamin B12 deficiency. These are small, painful sores that can appear on the inside of your mouth, including the lips, cheeks, and at the base of the gums. The ulcers are typically round or oval with a white, yellow, or grey center and a red border. They can be quite painful, especially when talking, brushing teeth, or eating. Vitamin B12 is essential for the healthy formation and repair of cells found in the lining of our mouth. Without adequate levels of vitamin B12, these cells cannot regenerate effectively, leading to the formation of mouth ulcers. 6. Oral Supplements Or in more severe cases, intramuscular injections of B12 can rapidly improve these symptoms. So, we have covered how vitamin B12 deficiency can lead to symptoms like numbness, fatigue, mood changes, and more. Remember, this nutrient is vital for your nervous system, energy levels, and overall health. In our next video, we will talk about how you can fix vitamin B12 deficiency with diet and supplementation. So, you might want to hit the subscribe button and hit the bell icon so you get notified when we release our video. If you found this information helpful, please give this video a thumbs up and share it with your friends and family who might benefit from it. Thank you so much for watching and take care of your health. See you in the next video.

=== FILE: Acute Inflammation Made Easy [CB1ANeAhpzA].txt ===

 Hi, I'm Dr. Omar Malik and in this video we'll talk about acute inflammation. So let's first start by understanding the basic concepts of acute inflammation. Suppose you get a cut on your skin. What do you think happens at the molecular level in that cut? Of course, some cells will be damaged there and microbes like bacteria will be able to get in. In a reaction to this, the tissue and the blood vessels in that area develop a response that allows your body to contain the problem and get rid of the bacteria. How exactly your body does this will be discussed later in the video. So what exactly is inflammation? In simple terms, it's the body's response to harmful agents such as pathogens or damaged cells. The aim of this response is to bring white blood cells and defense molecules from the bloodstream to the affected area to eliminate the threat and begin the healing process. Before we proceed further, it's very important for you to understand the pattern of questions that have been asked from this topic in the last 10 years and how that pattern of questions has changed over time. During the 2012-2015 exams, the questions from this topic focused more on the basic concepts. Distinguishing between acute and chronic inflammation and cardinal signs of inflammation. And during 2016-2019, the type of questions shifted towards a deeper understanding of cellular mechanisms, mediators of inflammation and morphological patterns of inflammation. But during the last 3-4 years, that is from 2020-2024, the questions have become more integrative, requiring knowledge of clinical applications, molecular mechanisms and recent research topics. Hence, it's very important for you to focus on the latest trend of questions. So let's continue with our topic and try to understand the basics of inflammation. Inflammation is basically of two types. Acute and chronic. Here are some important differences between the two. Acute inflammation develops rapidly, within minutes to hours, whereas chronic inflammation develops slowly, within a few days. The cellular infiltrate in acute inflammation is mostly neutrophils, whereas in chronic inflammation, monocytes, macrophages and lymphocytes are the predominant cell type. Acute inflammation causes less tissue damage, which is usually self-limiting. But in chronic inflammation, the tissue injury can be severe and can even progress with time. Acute inflammation involves some prominent signs, like pain, redness, race temperature, etc. But chronic inflammation has less prominent signs. Acute inflammation basically consists of two main types of responses. The first involves the response of the blood vessels and the second response is of the cells. Let's break down and try to understand what actually happens in both these cases. First, we will talk about the changes that occur in the blood vessels. Let's continue with our previous example of a cut on the skin. The blood vessels first undergo vasoconstriction. But then they quickly relax and undergo vasodilation. The initial vasoconstriction in acute inflammation is a brief reflex response, aimed at minimizing blood loss and facilitating clot formation at the site of injury. It prepares the blood vessels for subsequent vasodilation, which increases blood flow and brings immune cells to the area. This phase is mediated by neurogenic reflexes and substances like endothelians and catecholamines. Like we just discussed, after this, the blood vessels quickly switch to vasodilation, which is the main response of the blood vessels in acute inflammation. This widening is what causes that redness and warms you often see in an inflamed area, because now due to vasodilation, more blood is being delivered to that area. In acute inflammation, increased vascular permeability is essential, so that immune cells and defense molecules can exit the blood vessels and reach the site of injury or infection. Several mechanisms contribute to this increased vascular permeability. The most common cause of vascular leakage is the contraction of endothelial cells, creating gaps that allow fluid to escape. This is triggered by mediators like histamine and bradykinin, and is known as the immediate transient response, typically lasting for 15-30 minutes. In some cases, such as with sunburn or mild injuries, a delayed response can also occur, where vascular leakage begins hours later and lasts longer. The second mechanism which contributes to increased vascular permeability is endothelial injury. More direct damage to endothelial cells, which are the cells lining the inner wall of the blood vessels, can occur due to severe physical injury or microbial toxins. This leads to cell necrosis and detachment, resulting in sustained leakage. Neutrophils adhering to the endothelium during inflammation can exacerbate this damage, prolonging the leakage until the vessels are either thrombosed or repaired. Often multiple mechanisms contribute to increased permeability in blood vessels, such as in thermal burns, where both endothelial contraction and endothelial injury play a role. This can result in significant fluid loss, which can be life-threatening in severe burns. The lymphatic system also responds to inflammation, by increasing lymph flow to drain the excess fluid, leukocytes, and debris from the inflamed area. This can lead to secondary inflammation of lymphatic vessels known as lymphenitis, or lymph nodes known as lymph adenitis, often marked by enlarged, painful lymph nodes. Red streaks near a skin wound can indicate lymphenitis, often signaling a bacterial infection. Now that we have got the blood vessels sorted, let's talk about what the wild blood cells are up to during this time. The first responders here are neutrophils. Think of them as the body's emergency team. They start by moving from the middle of the blood vessels to the edges or the margins of the blood vessels, hence known as margination. Then they start rolling along the vessel walls, kind of like they are checking out where they can find an exit. This rolling action is controlled by special molecules called selectins, which are proteins attached to the neutrophils and endothelium of the blood vessels. Eventually, these cells stick firmly to the vessel wall, thanks to special proteins known as integrins. Once they are stuck, the neutrophils can then squeeze through the gaps in the vessel wall, and this is called transmigration, or diopetesis, and then they head straight to the site of inflammation to take care of the problem. Now let's talk about leukocyte adhesion molecules in a bit more detail. These are special proteins that are present on endothelium and leukocytes, and they lead to adhesion and transmigration of leukocytes. Here you have to remember about three main types of adhesion molecules. First we have selectins. Two main types of selectins are involved, known as p-selectin and e-selectin. Selectins play a critical role in the initial, weak adhesion of leukocytes, enabling them to slow down and roll along the vessel wall. On the white blood cells, we have attachment proteins known as integrins. Integrins lead to a more stable adhesion of leukocytes to the endothelium. Integrins attach to intracellular adhesion molecule, or ICAM-1, a key protein on endothelial cells facilitating firm adhesion. Different types of integrins are present on different types of WBCs, like LFA1 or lymphocyte function associated antigen 1, which is present on neutrophils. Then we have MAC1 on monocytes and VLA4 on T-cells and monocytes. We also have PECAM-1, also known as CD31. It plays a significant role in the process of transmigration, where leukocytes move between endothelial cells to enter the tissues. Remember, cytokines like TNF-alpha and IL-1 increase leukocyte adhesion molecules. All this has been discussed in much more detail in our beautifully illustrated, hand-crafted med-simplified notes. They cover every detail from this topic that you need to master and remember this topic for exams. Plus, our MCQ modules will help you to test your knowledge and prepare for exams confidently. So if you are interested, you can check the notes in the links provided in the description box down below. Genetic deficiencies of leukocyte adhesion molecules lead to increased susceptibility to bacterial infections. There are two important genetic defects associated with leukocyte adhesion molecules, which lead to a deficient immune system. Leukocyte adhesion deficiency type 1 and leukocyte adhesion deficiency type 2. Defects in integrins lead to leukocyte adhesion deficiency type 1 or LED1. LED1 is characterized by recurrent bacterial infections, delayed wound healing, and absence of pus formation. One of the first signs of LED type 1 is a delay in the detachment of umbilical cords stump after birth. Now genetic defects in selectins are seen in leukocyte adhesion deficiency type 2. It also results in recurrent infections but with additional features like growth delay and Bombay blood group. The child also suffers from severe intellectual defects. A number of questions have been included from this section in the latest exams. Let's review a couple of them. Section 1 A 2 year old child presents with a history of recurrent bacterial infections and delayed separation of the umbilical cord. Laboratory tests reveal leukocyteosis but no pus formation at the infection site. Which of the following is the most likely diagnosis? Here are the options. You can pause the screen and think about the answer for some time. The answer to this question is of course leukocyte adhesion deficiency type 1. Question number 2 A deficiency in which of the following leads to the inability of leukocytes to transmigrate across the endothelium. Here are the options. The answer to this question is PE CAM 1. So now we have understood about the basics of acute inflammation. Let's try to understand what happens after this. Continuing the example of a cut on the skin? Suppose some bacteria get in through the site of injury. So it's important that your white blood cells spring into action fast. Imagine they are like a battalion of soldiers and they have to fight the enemy which has crossed into their territory. The enemy was spotted by the guard towers and the guard towers send a message over the wireless that they need help. With this example let's try to understand what happens in your body when a similar situation arises. After exiting the bloodstream, leukocytes move towards the site of injury by a process known as chemotaxis. Chemo attractants are those substances that lead to chemotaxis. For example, the peptides and lipids present in bacterial cell wall act as chemo attractants. You can compare chemo attractants to the message that was sent by the guard towers to the battalion of soldiers who after receiving the message know the exact location of the enemy. And the movement of these soldiers is the chemotaxis. For the purpose of exams you have to remember some important chemo attractants which our own body produces. Cytokine interleukin-8 is a classic example. It guides neutrophils to the site of injury. Then we have complement system components like C5A which is a powerful chemo attractant. Then we have arachidonic acid metabolites such as leukotriene B4 or LTB4 which is also a powerful chemo attractant. We'll study about the complement system and the arachidonic acid metabolites in our next video where we will discuss the different mediators of inflammation. These agents bind to specific receptor on leukocytes, activating them to move towards the site of inflammation. The leukocytes move by reorganizing their internal structure much like how a car with front wheel drive is pulled forward by its wheels. Persistent neutrophilic infiltrate can be seen in infections like pseudomonas where neutrophils continue to be recruited for several days. In viral infections we typically see an influx of lymphocytes rather than neutrophils. And in allergic reactions and helmetic infections, eosonophils are the dominant cells. Now we have a brief understanding of acute inflammation. Let's understand how our cells recognize harmful microbes and damage cells which is essentially the first step in phagocytosis which we'll discuss after this. Our cells have specialized receptors like tol-like receptors that act as early warning systems. These receptors are found on different parts of the cell including the plasma membrane, endosomes and cytosol, allowing them to detect invaders no matter where they are. Our cells also have nod-like receptors or NLRs that detect internal danger signals like uric acid and ATP which come from our own damaged cells. These receptors activate a protein in the cell known as inflamosome which then induces the production of interleukin-1, a key molecule that recruits white blood cells to the site of damage. In addition to the primary receptors that directly recognize microbes, many leukocytes possess other specialized receptors. One of the key types of these receptors are those that bind to the FC tails of antibodies and complement proteins. Now what does that mean? When a microbe invades the body, the immune system often tags it with antibodies or complement proteins. This tagging process known as opsonization makes it easier for immune cells to identify, bind to and ultimately destroy these invaders. These receptors on leukocytes recognize these tags, promoting the ingestion and destruction of the microbes. Lastly, circulating proteins like those in the complement system and mannose binding lectin play a crucial role in recognizing and attacking microbes, further fueling the inflammatory response. Now that we have explored how leukocytes are recruited to the site of infection or injury, let's dive into the next crucial step. How these cells recognize, engulf and then destroy these harmful agents through the process of phagocytosis. Phagocytosis is the method by which neutrophils and macrophages the body's primary phagocytes engulf and destroy microbes and dead cells. Here's how it works. The first step is recognizing the enemy. Phagocytes have specialized receptors that help them identify and attach to harmful agents and cells. We have discussed some important receptors which help WBCs to detect pathogens earlier in this video. In addition to them, mannose receptors present on macrophages is also one such example. With this, the macrophages bind to sugars like mannose and fucose, which are found on the microbial surfaces but not on human cells, allowing the phagocytes to distinguish between self and foreign cells. We also have something known as obsonance like IgG antibodies and C3B component of the complement system. We'll discuss more about these in a bit. But phagocytes have high affinity receptors for these obsonance, facilitating the process of recognition of pathogens which are coated with these obsonance. The second step in phagocytosis is engulfment. Once the phagocyte has attached to its target, it engulfs it by extending its cytoplasm around the particle, forming a phagosome, which is basically a membrane bound vesicle inside the cell. The phagosome then fuses with the lysosome, creating a phagolysosome where the actual digestion of the particle takes place. And the third step is intracellular killing and degradation. Inside the phagolysosome, the phagocyte unleashes a barrage of toxic substances to kill and break down the engulfed pathogen. You can imagine them as the weapons and bullets of the soldiers. In neutrophils, these enzymes and chemicals are stored inside special structures known as granules, which are of two types, specific or secondary granules and azureophilic or primary granules. Each type of granule contains a distinct set of enzymes and proteins that serve different functions in the immune system. Let's first talk about specific or secondary granules. These smaller granules are packed with enzymes that help in breaking down various extracellular components. They include lysosome, which breaks down bacterial cell walls, collagenases, degrade collagen, and gelatinase breaks down gelatin and other matrix proteins. We also have lactoferrin, which binds to iron and deprives bacteria of this essential nutrient. Then, we have histaminase and alkaline phosphatase, which are important enzymes present in these secondary or specific granules. Next, we have the azureophilic or primary granules. These larger granules contain more potent antimicrobial substances, like myeloperoxidase, which is a key enzyme and plays a critical role in generating hypochlorite, which is a potent bactericidal agent. It kills bacteria. Azureophilic granules also contain a variety of bactericidal proteins, like defensins, which disrupt bacterial cell membranes and acid hydrolysis, which break down various biomolecules within the phagolizosome. Additionally, neutral proteases such as elastase, cathepsin G, and non-specific collagenases degrade extracellular matrix components, contributing to tissue remodelling and sometimes tissue damage. Out of these, it's very important for you to understand the functioning of acid and neutral proteases. Acid proteases are enzymes that operate within the acidic environment of the phagolizosome, where they degrade bacteria and cellular debris. They are crucial for the digestion of engulfed pathogens. Neutral proteases, on the other hand, act outside the phagolizosome and can degrade various extracellular matrix components, such as collagen, lasten, and cartilage. While this activity is important for tissue remodelling, it can also lead to tissue destruction during chronic inflammation. Neutral proteases also play a role in activating other components of the immune system, such as complement proteins and kinins, by breaking down their precursor molecules. The release of lysosomal enzymes into the extracellular space can cause significant tissue damage, especially if not properly regulated. This can lead to the amplification of inflammation and contribute to chronic inflammatory conditions. The body controls the activity of these powerful enzymes through anti-proteases found in serum and tissue fluids. The most important of these is alpha-1 antitrypsin, which inhibits neutrophil elastase. Deficiency in alpha-1 antitrypsin can lead to unchecked elastase activity, resulting in conditions like amphysema due to destruction of elastic fibers in the lungs. Interactions in lysosomal enzymes can lead to build-up of undigested pathogens or substrates within the cells, contributing to a variety of lysosomal storage disorders. These will be discussed in much more detail in our biochemistry video series. I'll provide the links to all the related videos in the description below. Now let's talk about some topics that have been recently added in the textbooks of pathology. Other interactions and behaviors within tissues are complex and varied. Two phenomena that illustrate these interactions are empiriopolisis and endosis. While they may seem familiar at first glance, both involve one cell being engulfed by another. Their mechanisms, outcomes, and clinical implications are completely different. Empyrepolisis is a process where one cell is engulfed by another without being destroyed. Like phagocytosis, where the engulfed cell is digested and typically dies, in empiriopolisis the engulfed cell remains intact and viable within the engulfing cell. This non-destructive interaction means that the engulfed cell can continue to function normally while residing within the other cell. The precise mechanism of empiriopolisis is not fully understood. But it is thought to involve interactions between surface molecules of the engulfing and engulfed cell, allowing for a non-destructive engulfment process. Empyrepolisis is an area of active research, particularly in understanding its role in disease processes and its potential implications in cell therapy and transformation. In autoimmune hepatitis, empiriopolisis is often observed in the liver where lymphocytes which are the engulfed cells are found within the hepatocytes which are the engulfing cells. This phenomenon is considered a hallmark of the disease and can play a role in the immune response observed in this condition. Rosydofman disease is a rare disorder characterized by massive lymphadenopathy. In this condition, empiriopolisis occurs when histiocytes, which is the type of immune cell, engulfs lymphocytes. This phenomenon is one of the key diagnostic features of this disease. In myelodysplastic syndrome, which is a group of disorder caused by poorly formed or dysfunctional blood cells, empiriopolisis can be seen in the bone marrow. The engulfment of hematopoietic stem cells by megakereocytes is noted, although the exact significance of this in MDS is still under investigation. Entosis is a unique cell-within-a-cell phenomenon where one cell actively invades another, leading to the engulfment of the weaker cell by a dominant one. Unlike empiriopolisis, entosis results in the death of the engulfed cell, which is ultimately digested by the engulfing cell. Entosis is closely associated with the adhesion molecule e-cadrin. In normal tissues, e-cadrin helps to maintain cell-to-cell adhesion. However, in tumors where e-cadrin expression is often lost or reduced, cells lose their cohesion, allowing one cell to invade and engulf another. Once inside, the engulfed cell is encased in a vacuole and eventually degraded by the engulfing cell's lysosomes. This process can be viewed as a form of cannibalism, where the dominant cell consumes the weaker one, often to gain energy or nutrients. Entosis is most commonly observed in cancerous tissues, where it may contribute to tumor progression and survival. In aggressive tumors, cells exhibiting entosis may gain a survival advantage by consuming neighboring cells to meet their energy requirements. This phenomena can also contribute to tumor heterogeneicity, making the cancer more resistant to treatments. Given its association with aggressive tumors, entosis is being studied as a potential marker for poor prognosis in certain cancers. It also raises interesting questions about the role of cell competition and survival within tumors. Entosis is a relatively newly recognized phenomena and is the subject of ongoing research. Scientists are investigating its potential role in cancer metastasis, resistance to chemotherapy and as a target for novel cancer therapies. While emperipolysis is generally non-destructive and seen in benign conditions or immune responses, entosis is destructive and is associated with malignancy. This stark difference highlights the diverse ways in which cells can interact with one another. In addition to their well-known roles in phagocytosis and microbial killing, neutrophils have another powerful weapon against infections. Neutrophil extracellular traps Nets are web-like structures composed of DNA and other nuclear materials that trap and neutralize pathogens at the site of infection. Let's break down how neutrophil extracellular traps are formed and why they are significant. Neutrophil extracellular traps are produced when neutrophils encounter infectious agents like bacteria and fungi or when they are stimulated by inflammatory signals such as chemokines, cytokines, complement proteins and reactive oxygen species. The process begins with the activation of an enzyme called arginine deaminase which triggers chromatin decondensation. Other enzymes like myeloperoxidase and elastase then enter the nucleus and further loosen the chromatin structure. This process eventually leads to the rupture of the nuclear envelope causing the chromatin to spill out into the extracellular space forming a sticky meshwork that traps microbes. Reactive oxygen species plays a crucial role in activating arginine deaminase leading to the conversion of arginine to citrulline and initiating chromatin decondensation. Then we have myeloperoxidase and elastase and these enzymes further degrade the nuclear structure. The formation of neutrophil extracellular traps result in the death of the neutrophil as its nuclear contents are expelled to form the trap. Let's look at the function and importance of neutrophil extracellular traps. Once formed, these traps act as a physical barrier concentrating antimicrobial substances like peptides and enzymes at the site of infection. This helps to trap and kill the invading microbes preventing them from spreading to other areas of the body. However, the process isn't without its drawbacks. Nets have been detected in the blood during conditions like sepsis where they can contribute to systemic inflammation. Additionally, the release of nuclear material into the extracellular space can potentially trigger autoimmune responses. In diseases like systemic lupus erythromatosis, the DNA and proteins in neutrophil extracellular traps might act as autoantigens, leading to an immune reaction against the body's own tissues. Acute inflammation presents with characteristic morphological features. Notably, the dilation of small blood vessels and the accumulation of leukocytes and fluid in the tissues. However, depending upon the cause, severity and location of the inflammation, several distinct morphological patterns may emerge. Recognizing these patterns is crucial because they often provide valuable clues about the underlying cause of the inflammation. This inflammation is characterized by the exudation of a cell-poor fluid into the spaces created by cell injury or into the body cavities such as peritoneum, pleura or pericardium. The fluid typically lacks microbes and large number of leukocytes, making it less dense and less likely to cause pus formation. This type of inflammation is often seen in conditions like burns or viral infections where fluid accumulates under the skin as in blisters or in dizziness.  and body cavities, a condition known as effusion. When there is a significant increase in vascular permeability, larger molecules such as fibrinogen escape from the blood, leading to the formation of fibrin deposits in the extracellular space. Fibrinous inflammation is commonly seen in the lining of the body cavities, such as the meninges, pericardium, and pleura. If not cleared, inflammation can lead to scarring by stimulating the growth of fibroblasts and blood vessels, potentially resulting in the thickening of tissues and the obliteration of spaces, such as the pericardial space. Porylant inflammation is defined by the production of pus, which is an exurid consisting of neutrophils, necrotic cell debris, and fluid. This type of inflammation is typically caused by pyogenic pus-forming bacteria like stryphylococci, which lead to tissue necrosis. A common example is acute appendicitis. Abscess, which is a localized collection of pus within tissues, organs, or confined spaces, often form as a result of bacterial infection. These abscesses have a central area of necrosis surrounded by preserved neutrophils, with surrounding areas of vascular dilation and fibroblast activity indicating chronic inflammation and tissue repair. An ulcer is a local defect or excavation of the surface of an organ or tissue produced by the shedding of necrotic tissues. Ulceration typically occurs in areas where tissue necrosis and inflammation exist close to a surface, such as the mucosa of the mouth, stomach, intestines, or the skin of the lower extremities. Peptic ulcers of the stomach or duodenum are classic examples where both acute and chronic inflammation coexist. The acute phase is marked by intense neutrophil infiltration and vascular dilation, while the chronic phase involves fibroblast proliferation, scarring, and the accumulation of immune cells like lymphocytes and macrophages. So this was all about acute inflammation. I hope you liked the video. I provided links to met simplified notes in the description box down below, so make sure to check them out. And yes, make sure to hit the subscribe button below, because we are going to upload a lot of videos in the coming time. Thank you so much for watching.

=== FILE: Eat This When You are Sick ｜  5 POWERFUL Immunity Boosters #immunity [7cc7qQYXK24].txt ===

 Do you suffer from repeated chest infections, sore throat, colds, flu, or problems of digestive tract like abdominal pain or diarrhea? You may be suffering from a weak immune system. In today's fast-paced world, maintaining a strong immune system is more important than ever. With the constant threat of new viruses, seasonal flu, and other health challenges, people are increasingly turning towards dietary supplements to boost their immunity. In this video, we will look at 5 supplements that are well known for their immune-boosting properties. 1. Vitamin C Vitamin C, also known as ascorbic acid, is perhaps the most popular supplement for boosting the immune system. It is also a powerful antioxidant that helps the body to fight off infectious agents and free radicals. Vitamin C is essential for the proper functioning of various components of our immune system. Pistols, strawberries, bell peppers, and spinach are good natural sources of vitamin C. For those who struggle to get enough vitamin C from their diet, supplements can be a convenient alternative. 2. Vitamin D Vitamin D plays a critical role in enhancing the pathogen-fighting effects of monocytes and macrophages, which are white blood cells that are important parts of your immune system. It also helps to reduce inflammation in the body, which helps to promote the immune response. Many people have vitamin D deficiency, which can negatively affect immune function and increase the susceptibility to infection. Supplementing with vitamin D, especially if you have low blood levels, can protect you against respiratory tract infections and possibly other health conditions also. Next on the list, we have zinc. Zinc is a mineral that is crucial for your immune system. It is essential for the proper development of immune cells. It protects the immune cells from damage and is also important for these cells to properly communicate with each other. Zinc deficiency has been linked to a weakened immune response. Foods rich in zinc include meat, shellfish, nuts, seeds, and dairy products. Pumpkin seeds and sunflower seeds are good sources of zinc that you can incorporate in your daily life easily. Otherwise, zinc supplements are often recommended to help fight colds and other mild illnesses. Next on the list, we have elderberry. Elderberry is known for its antiviral properties, which makes it a popular supplement during cold and flu seasons. There are numerous studies that prove that elderberry extract has the potential to significantly reduce upper respiratory tract symptoms caused by viral infections. Research suggests that compounds in elderberry can inhibit the virus's entry and replication in human cells, making it a potentially effective tool in managing flu symptoms. Number 5, probiotics. Probiotics are live microorganisms known as good bacteria that are crucial for your gut and overall health. Around 70% of your immune system is located in the intestines, so it's no surprise that most doctors say that good health starts in the gut. So if you're trying to improve your immune health, it is very important to keep your intestinal health in optimum condition. And evidence suggests that probiotic bacteria play a key role in this. Your gut acts as a barrier and prevents the entry of harmful germs into your body. Probiotics are very important for this barrier function of the gut. So probiotics are essential for the regulation of immune response in your body. They release certain chemicals known as cytokines which help the immune cells to communicate with each other and work properly. One of the most researched probiotic strains for immune health is lactobacillus para-ksi 431, which has been shown to reduce the duration of cold and flu symptoms by 3 days compared to placebo. Probiotics can be found in fermented foods like yogurt, sautroth or kimchi or can be taken as oral supplements. If you want to learn how our immune system works exactly, you can watch this video on our channel. Thank you so much for watching and if you like this video kindly support us by donating a small amount on our Patreon page. Links are in the description box down below. Take care and I'll see you in the next video.

=== FILE: TREAT DARK LIPS IN 1 WEEK - Expert Tips for Treating Smoker's Lips FAST [JDuL_wwwLwI].txt ===

 One of the least discussed but most visible aspect of cigarette smoking is darkening of lips, leading to a change from their natural view to a darker shade. This condition results from a combination of chemical exposure and physical changes induced by smoking. In this video, we will try to understand why cigarettes lead to dark lips and then we will talk about what are the different treatment options available to fix this problem. Watch till the end because in the end we will discuss a very effective home remedy that you can start right now that will help you treat lip pigmentation. So, let's begin. Now, there are three main reasons behind darkening of lips associated with smoking. These include nicotine, tar and oxidative stress. Let's talk about them one by one. Nicotine is a well-known vasoconstrictor. Means it causes narrowing of the blood vessels. This narrowing effect significantly reduces blood flow to the skin, including the delicate skin of the lips. Reduced blood flow means that less oxygen and fewer nutrients reach the skin cells, which can lead to changes in skin health and appearance. Overtime, the diminished blood supply makes the lips more prone to damage and they become darker due to the compensatory increase in melanin production. Tar, a sticky substance found in cigarette smoke, plays a straightforward yet harmful role in the darkening of lips. When you smoke, tar directly settles on the lips, acting much like a stain on a fabric. This dark viscous material not only clings to the surface of the lips, but can also penetrate the delicate skin, contributing to a darker appearance over time. Additionally, the constant exposure to tar can irritate the lip skin, which also leads to increased melanin production. Cigarette smoke contains more than 4,000 chemicals. And these chemicals cause oxidative stress in the body, including the skin and lips. This stress can damage the skin of the lips, leading to increased melanin production, as the skin attempts to protect itself from further damage. So now you know what are the main reasons behind dark lips associated with smoking. Let's talk about the various methods by which you can fix this issue. Starting with the most important and most effective way, which is to quit smoking. Wait! Before you decide watching further is a waste of time, and scroll to another video, don't worry. I know if you're watching this video, you're not here to quit smoking. So I won't discuss more on this point, but just letting you know that quitting smoking is the fastest way you can make your lips look healthy and pink again. Since you are most likely to continue smoking, here are some tips that will lessen its impact on your lips. 1. Use a lip balm before smoking a cigarette It forms a layer on your lips that prevents the direct contact of chemicals in the serious smoke on your lips. 2. If you cannot quit altogether, you can decrease the frequency of smoking. You can also use nicotine gums if you have excessive cravings. 3. Use cigarettes with better filters that do not heat up and damage the lips. Now let's move on to the actual treatment part of hyperpigmentation of lips. So the treatment plan consists mainly of three things. Topical creams, chemical peels and lasers. Let's talk about them one by one starting with topicals. There are several topical creams available in the market for hyperpigmentation of lips. Topical lip-lightning creams are designed to reduce pigmentation and even out the color of the lips. These creams often contain active ingredients that target melanin production. Pigment which is responsible for color in the skin and lips. Make sure to look for these components in these creams. 1. Coagic acid Coagic acid works by inhibiting the production of tyrosinase which is an enzyme necessary for melanin production. This results in lightening of skin. It is also combined with other ingredients like vitamin C and E which enhance its efficacy. 2. Alpha Arbutin Arbutin is a naturally occurring compound derived from berries and also works by inhibiting tyrosinase to reduce melanin production. Other components present in these creams include ascorbic acid, Trinacic acid, Tritinoids and Hydroquinone. Here are some good products that contain these components. I have provided links for these products in the description box down below so you can check them out. Now let's move on to the second part of the treatment plan which is exfoliation. Now exfoliation involves removal of dead skin cells that get accumulated over the lips that can make lips look dull and contribute to darkness. Exfoliation can be of two types, physical and chemical. Usually chemical exfoliation which includes peels is preferred for lips because physical exfoliation can damage the lips. However, for mild physical exfoliation you can mix equal parts sugar with honey or olive oil to create a paste. Apply to lips, massage gently in circular motions for a few seconds and then rinse with lukewarm water. Chemical exfoliation on the other hand uses mild acids to dissolve the dead cells allowing them to be washed away without scrubbing, which can be gentler and most suitable for lips. Mild chemical peels mainly contain alpha hydroxy acids like glycolic acid and lactic acid. Lactic acid is very effective for lip pigmentation and it also pulls in moisture to the lip skin. What makes lactic acid unique is that it has large molecules that do not penetrate the deeper layers, thereby does not cause damage to the lips. Lactic acid should be used in concentrations ranging from 5 to 8%. By removing the outer layer, chemical peels stimulate the growth of new, healthier skin cells leading to improved texture and tone. Usually multiple sessions of chemical peels are required to get good results. I have included links to some good chemical peels in the description and also some videos that show the procedure of chemical peels on lips in great detail. So make sure to check them out if you are planning to do a lip peel at home. A very important step that is advised after a chemical peel is to wear a good sunscreen on your lips. After a chemical peel, new layers of skin get exposed which are prone to damage by UV radiation. So it becomes very important that you protect your lips by wearing a sunscreen. Look for a sunscreen that is stinted and has SPF above 30. Now the third aspect of the treatment plan for lip pigmentation includes lasers. Laser treatments work by emitting concentrated light beams at specific wavelengths that break down melanin. The laser energy is absorbed by the pigmented areas causing them to break down without harming the surrounding tissue. Over time, the body naturally removes these pigmented cells leading to lighter lip colour. Cue switched and fractional lasers are two distinct types of laser technologies used for treatment of lip pigmentation. Cue switched lasers emit high intensity laser pulses in very short bursts. These pulses shatter the melanin pigment into tiny particles without causing thermal damage to the surrounding tissues. Fractional lasers on the other hand create tiny zones of thermal damage in the lips. This approach stimulates the body's healing process leading to the new collagen formation and lip rejuvenation. So if you're looking to specifically tackle dark spots, Cue switched might be your go. While fractional lasers are more about improving overall lip condition and texture. Cue switched lasers for lip pigmentation typically result in milder side effects like slight redness and swelling with a lower risk of scarring making recovery relatively quick and straightforward. Fractional lasers in contrast can cause more pronounced side effects like redness, swelling, peeling and higher risk of post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation especially in darker skin tones. It generally has a longer recovery period. Okay, so this was about laser treatment. Now let's talk about a very effective DIY home remedy for treating lip pigmentation. We'll be making a DIY lip mask that you can apply on your lips before sleeping and it will show very good results in 5-7 days. For this lip mask, we'll be needing 4 main ingredients. So for this, mix 2 parts beetroot juice, 1 part aloe vera gel and 1 part clarified butter with few drops of lemon juice in a glass bowl. Mix it well and let it sit for a few hours. Beetroot and lemon juice contain natural bleaching agents and antioxidants which decrease the pigmentation while aloe vera gel and clarified butter provide very good moisturization for the lips. So I hope you found this video helpful. Subscribe to our channel and make sure to hit the bell icon if you want to see more videos like this in the future.

=== FILE: The Secret Company Trying to Poison the Whole World [yYkiofDHNjw].txt ===

 the sharing of biased and false news has become all too common on social media. More alarming news from the apple of the eye is that the college made a dance at the R3 without checking the pass first. An estimated one-third of all the food produced in the world goes waste. Asparagus, glimes, and avocado, sprayed with a peel... A Peel Protected English Cucumber I recently stumbled upon an article on a Bill Gates-funded startup, Apeel Sciences, which developed an invisible coating for fruits and vegetables that can prolong their shellfries significantly. You can see in these time-lapses how fast the fruits without the coating are rotting, as compared to the fruits with the Apeel coating. While researching about the topic, I fell into a rabbit hole of misinformation and conspiracy theories. I found numerous social media posts and videos on YouTube claiming that Apeel's coating is toxic, that it leads to serious eye-damage, allergic reactions of the skin, and a lot more. Some videos even claim that Bill Gates is an evil alien lizard from another planet, secretly trying to hatch a plot to kill all humanity. And Apeel's coating is the latest weapon in his arsenal. So what's really going on here? Are these serious health warnings or just another set of baseless conspiracy theories to gain attention for likes and shares? The idea of Bill Gates as a villain seems more like a sci-fi movie plot than reality. It makes you wonder, do these posts care about the truth or just about getting views and attention? Let's look at the facts and evidence to find out what's the real story behind Apeel and Bill Gates. Let's begin by clarifying a few things. First of all, Bill Gates is not the founder of Apeel Sciences. The company was founded by James Rogers in 2012, after receiving a 100,000 grand from Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. They further received funding from a lot of investors and developed a plant-based invisible coating for fruits and vegetables that doubled their shelf life. Their main aim was to reduce global food waste and make the supply chain of food more sustainable. So the problem of global food waste is a huge one. According to the UN Food and Agricultural Organization, approximately one third of all the food that is produced globally is lost or wasted each year. And fruits and vegetables have some of the highest rates of wastage. Nearly 45% of all the fresh produce is lost or wasted, can you imagine? Now this is a double-edged sword. On one hand, when food is wasted, all the resources that were used to produce this food, including water, land, energy, labour and capital, go to waste. On top of all that, food waste is responsible for almost 10% of the greenhouse gas emissions leading to global warming. Apeel Sciences saw this as a lucrative business opportunity. According to their website, the company makes two main types of coatings for food produce. Epidieel, which is their coating for conventional produce, and Organi peel, which is their coating specifically made for organic produce. These peels work by creating an extra barrier around the fruit or vegetable, which slows down water loss and oxidation. Now let's get down to the details of what exactly is this coating made of and this is where the controversy begins. So there are two main ingredients in api. Monoendiglous rites and citric acid. Monoendiglous rites are lipids which act as emulsifiers, which means they help oil and water to blend. As a result, they are commonly used as food additives. The company extracts these monoendiglous rites from grape seed extract. Now the controversy started when some internet health gurus started posting that these monoendiglous rites are trans fats and claimed that they are responsible for heart attacks, obesity, and a host of other health issues. The controversy seems to stem from a misunderstanding of their function and safety profile, fueled by a lack of knowledge and online sensationalism. First of all, monoendiglous rites are not trans fats. Now I can go into the chemistry behind all of this but that will make the video very long and boring. But in a nutshell, monoendiglous rites do not have the same health risks as trans fats and are generally recognized as safe for consumption by USFDA and many other health authorities around the world. Here is a list of foods in which monoendiglous rites are regularly found. Also, these videos from prominent health experts on YouTube claim that the company is not showing the complete list of ingredients and is not being completely transparent about the composition of APL. However, after extensive research, I found that the company has released several documents clarifying their ingredient list over and over again. They have repeatedly mentioned that the APL does not contain anything other than monoendiglous rites and citric acid. Another desperate attempt to get views and likes came from Instagram posts like these who confused APL with the surface cleaner with a similar name. Showing the safety sheet of the surface cleaner and claiming APL can cause serious eye and skin damage. You can also find several Instagram posts warning that Bill Gates is quoting your organic produce with a dangerous chemical. First of all, there is no scientific evidence that this product is dangerous. And second, the company's page clearly mentions that Bill Gates does not run the company nor is he involved in any sense in operations of the company. They also stated that they received research grants from Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation in 2012 and 2015 to begin the development of APL. And also that Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is not an active investor in this company. And this is very important to understand. Another issue that many people were discussing on social media was that APL's quoting contains heavy metals like arsenic, lead, cadmium, mercury and palladium. The posts claim that APL is intentionally putting heavy metals in its quoting. But the truth is that the levels of heavy metals found in APL's quoting are below the maximum limits established by food and drug administration. Also, heavy metals are not used to make this product. But the company says that the plants from which the quoting is derived can absorb them from the environment. The story of APL's controversy highlights how real innovation in the field of food and nutrition can be hampered by baseless controversy theories. Especially if they involve famous people. Even if they are really trying to do something good for humanity. It's a harsh reminder that in today's digital age, we must learn to seek out credible sources and understand that high-profile names are often used as clickbait by content creators to garner views and likes. Because remember, more views means more eyeballs and more eyeballs means more money. And do you really think that this man who has been the richest man of the world for decades really cares about earning more money at the age of 68 or 70? His foundation has already donated more than 50 billion dollars since 1994 for global problems such as poverty, disease, hunger, climate change and inequality. Trust me, he is not an evil alien lizard.

=== FILE: What Happens When you Fast for 3 Days [pQIPXOTLMIw].txt ===

 Most of us have gone 12 or even 24 hours without eating at least a few times in our lives just out of necessity or coincidence. But it's much less common for people to fast for 3 days in a row. If you have never fasted before, you'd be surprised to know about the diverse health benefits of fasting. So in this video, we'll focus on what happens with your energy, metabolism, hormones, and general body response to a 72 hours fast. Typically, the human body's main preferred source of energy is glycogen, which is a stored form of glucose. When you digest your food, your body breaks down carbohydrates into glucose, which it stores as glycogen in the muscles and liver. As long as you have glycogen stored up, that's what your body will use for energy and this is what happens during the first 12 hours of fasting. Hormone stores in the liver and muscles are converted into glucose, which is then used for energy. Hormonal changes also start to occur during this stage. In the few hours after eating, your insulin levels will rise, but after the 12 hours of fasting, your insulin levels will drop significantly. Also, there is this hormone in your body known as leptin, whose main job is to signal your body that you have enough food in your system. The levels of this hormone start to fall, while ghrelin, the hormone that signals hunger, will rise. Interesting things start to happen when your body passes beyond 12 hours of fasting. The glycogen stores of your body get depleted completely, which basically means that there is no reserved glucose in your body, so the metabolism basically shifts towards breakdown of fats. Your body starts to use a process known as lipolysis for energy. Lyrice breaks down the triglycerides in your fat cells to use as a source of fuel. Also, the levels of growth hormone in your body start to rise after about 12 hours of fasting. Growth hormone is released during fasting because it helps the body to conserve energy and use fat stores for energy. It also supports the maintenance and repair of tissues. Essentially, it's the body's way of protecting muscle mass and ensuring a steady energy supply when food intake is low. insulin levels start to drop significantly during this phase. This is very important as high insulin levels lead to storage of fat in the body, so when the insulin levels drop, the body starts to use fat for energy. In a nutshell, low insulin levels in the body promote fat breakdown, also known as lipolysis. Many people report improved mental clarity and cognitive function during this phase of fasting. After about 18 hours of fasting, your body will transition into a state of metabolism known as ketosis, which is when your body starts relying on fat as its primary source of energy. Ketosis promotes efficient fat burning and weight loss. It also helps in reducing blood sugar levels and improving lipid profile. You may be confused about the difference between ketosis and lipolysis. Let me break it down for you. To the world, lipolysis has two parts. Lipo meaning fat and lysis meaning breakdown. In lipolysis, fat is broken down into fatty acids and glycerol. These fatty acids travel to the liver and there they are used up in the process of ketosis. So the liver basically uses fatty acids to make energy. This is a more efficient way of burning fat and leads to better weight loss. During this phase, the growth hormone levels of your body continue to rise. insulin levels drop significantly as there is a decrease in glucose intake and utilization. A hormone known as norepinephrine also rises in the body. This hormone stimulates the breakdown of fat cells into free fatty acids that can be used for energy enhancing the metabolic rate. After about 24 hours of fasting, your body starts to do something really interesting. It starts to repair itself. This process is known as autophagy. Your cells start to get rid of any old components that are damaged or functioning poorly. Autophagy is incredibly important for your health and has been shown to reduce inflammation, kill cancer cells and clear out the misfolded proteins that lead to Alzheimer's and many other diseases. Because autophagy declines naturally with age, it's thought that fasting-induced autophagy can be a way to reduce the effects of aging. And indeed, studies have shown that fasting is connected to a longer lifespan. Fasting for around 48 hours can also be beneficial for your immune system. Stimulates the production of new white blood cells and improves your body's defense mechanisms. This research suggests that an occasional 24-hour fast can also improve your cardiovascular health. Your insulin sensitivity also improves remarkably by this point, protecting you against type 2 diabetes. If you extend your fast beyond 48 hours, your body fully adapts to ketosis. You're now burning ketones for energy with efficiency, which can lead to significant weight loss and even further improvements in brain function. Now there are several reported benefits of ketosis on brain function. Ketosis can enhance mental clarity, concentration and cognitive function. This happens because ketones are a more efficient fuel source for brain compared to glucose. It can lead to mood stabilization by affecting neurotransmitter levels. Many people report a reduction in brain fog and an increase in mental clarity when in ketosis. This likely happens due to a stabilized blood sugar level. Your growth hormone levels will also go up significantly in this phase, stimulating faster muscle repair and preserving lean muscle mass. The hunger hormone that signals your body that it needs food is known as ghrelin. The levels of ghrelin will continue to rise and fall throughout the day, but with lower and lower peaks, meaning that you won't feel as hungry as you did at the beginning of your fast. At 54 hours, your insulin levels will be at their lowest point here. Your ketone levels will increase further and to prevent muscle breakdown, your body will break down branched chain amino acids. Extended fasting also leads to better and more efficient autophagy and a stronger immune system. Once you have gotten to the endpoint of your 72 hour fast, you'll see one more benefit. At this stage in your fast, your IGF-1 or insulin-like growth factor will decrease. This triggers stem cell production. These stem cells are the source for all new cells in your body. As people age, their stem cells begin to lose their ability to regenerate. So this decline can make it more difficult to recover from infections or other diseases. According to a new study from MIT biologists, this age-related loss of the function of stem cells can be reversed by regular fasting. In our next video on this series, we will talk about the benefits of fasting in great detail. So if you want to learn more about fasting, click here to watch that video. Bye and take care.

=== FILE: Why Fasting is the Ultimate Hack to Better Health [V7wgP0Iznlg].txt ===

 Do you feel lethargic all the time? Struggle with high blood sugar levels or having trouble managing your weight? Well, fasting might be the solution you're looking for. In this video, we'll explore the numerous health benefits of fasting and how taking a break from our regular eating patterns can significantly improve our overall health. The first amazing benefit of fasting that we're going to talk about is very surprising. And actually, very few people know that fasting can actually boost your brain activity. When you begin your fast, your body initially uses the stored glucose in your liver and muscles as a source of energy. When glucose stores get depleted, your body starts to use fat for energy, producing ketones, which are an efficient fuel source for the brain and have been shown to enhance the brain function. Fasting creates a state of mild stress in the body that is beneficial for the brain. It activates certain pathways in your body that helps your cells to cope with stress and resist damage. It does so by increasing the production of neurotrophic factors in the brain. Neurotrophic factors are special proteins in the brain and nervous system that provide nourishment and support for nerve cells that help them to grow, survive and stay healthy. One such factor released during fasting is brain-derived neurotrophic factor or BDNF, which supports the survival and growth of brain cells and plays a crucial role in learning and memory. Higher levels of BDNF can protect against Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative conditions. Fasting has numerous benefits for your immune system. It suppresses chronic inflammation and decreases oxidative stress in your body. You can imagine chronic inflammation as a condition in which your immune system is constantly switched on in excess of what is needed. This is actually very harmful for our body. Our immune cells produce chemicals known as pro-inflammatory cytokines, which are like messengers of the immune system. They basically tell other cells to fight off infection, but too much of them can be harmful for your body. Fasting helps to reduce the production of these pro-inflammatory cytokines. This article talks about a study that was conducted on 50 healthy subjects who fasted from dawn to dusk on 30 consecutive days during the month of Ramadan. It showed that the levels of cytokines, including interleukin-6, interleukin-1 beta and TNF-alpha were significantly decreased after three weeks of dawn to dusk fasting compared with the baseline levels. Fasting also increases the number of immune cells in your body, specifically the monocytes and macrophages. Monocytes are basically a type of fibroids cell that patrols the body for pathogens and damage. When they find it, they transform into macrophages. Macrophages are basically more powerful immune cells that engulf and destroy invaders. They clear out debris and they also aid in tissue repair, playing a key role in the body's defense system. Fasting can lead to significant positive changes in your metabolism. The most important and beneficial effect fasting has on your metabolism is reduction in insulin resistance. For those of you who don't know, insulin is a hormone that is made by the pancreas in your body and allows glucose in the body to enter the cells and be used for energy. Normally, insulin attaches to cells and signals them to absorb glucose, keeping blood sugar levels in a healthy range. In insulin resistance, the cells start to ignore this signal from insulin, which basically means that the cells have now become resistant to the action of insulin. This means that glucose cannot enter the cells as easily and blood sugar levels start to rise. To compensate this, the pancreas produces more insulin, trying to get the cells to respond. Over time, this can lead to higher insulin levels in the blood and this is associated with the development of a number of diseases in the body like diet to diabetes, heart disease, obesity, high blood pressure and abnormal cholesterol levels. When you fast, your body's demand for insulin decreases because you are not introducing new glucose from food. With less glucose to manage, the body requires less insulin to be released by the pancreas. Over time, this reduced demand helps to reset the body's sensory degree to insulin. This happens because the cells aren't constantly exposed to high levels of insulin. This improvement is a key factor in maintaining healthy blood sugar levels and reducing the risk of type 2 diabetes and other metabolic diseases. Fasting also leads to release of ediponectin, which is basically a hormone that is produced by your fat cells. It also helps to regulate the blood sugar levels by reducing insulin resistance in the body. Fasting can have many positive effects on your cardiovascular health. These positive effects include an improvement in your lipid profile, reduction in your blood pressure and decreased inflammation in the body, which directly affects your cardiovascular health. Also, the improvement in insulin resistance and fat loss because of fasting indirectly benefits your heart and blood vessels. Fasting leads to a reduction in the levels of total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol and triglycerides in the blood. LDL cholesterol is often referred to as bad cholesterol because high levels of LDL can lead to plaque buildup in the arteries, increasing the risk of heart attacks. Triglycerides are another type of fat in the blood and high levels are associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular diseases. Fasting basically forces the body to use fat as a source of energy, which reduces the levels of LDL cholesterol and triglycerides in the blood. This improves the lipid profile of your body. Now this is very interesting. Imagine this. One of the most important differences between cancer cells and normal healthy cells in the body is a difference in their metabolism. Cancer cells have a much higher need for glucose than healthy cells. If you limit the circulating glucose in the blood, the healthy cells in your body can easily switch to an alternate source of energy like fat. But cancer cells don't have this ability to switch to another source of energy so easily. Without the nourishment to grow and thrive, cancer cells become more vulnerable to chemotherapy and other targeted treatments. At the same time, normal cells become more resistant, which helps them to protect against toxicities of treatment like chemotherapy. You can read more about the various researches on this topic here on this article. I have provided all the links to various references in the description box down below. Fasting offers a period of rest for the digestive tract, reducing the workload on stomach, intestines and other organs involved in digestion. This break can help to reduce the symptoms of digestive disorders such as bloating, gas and inflammation. It gives the gut lining time to repair and regenerate, which can be damaged by constant exposure to food particles and potential irritants. After a period of fasting, the digestive system becomes more efficient at processing foods and develops improved mortality. This enhanced mortality can help to prevent constipation by promoting regular bowel movements. Fasting also affects our gut microbiome, which is a complex community of microorganisms living in the digestive tract. Some studies suggest that fasting can increase the diversity of bacteria in the gut microbiome. It promotes the growth of beneficial gut bacteria, such as those which produce short chain fatty acids. Short chain fatty acids have anti-inflammatory properties and play a critical role in maintaining gut health. It also leads to a better immune system. Another important benefit of fasting is that it leads to a reduction in harmful bacteria in our gut. Since these bacteria thrive on a constant supply of nutrients from the diet, a reduced intake of food can starve these harmful bacteria. A number of scientific studies have proven that reducing the total calorie intake is a way to increase lifespan in almost all species. Several places around the world are known for their very healthy and long-lived people, such as Icaria in Greece, Okinawa in Japan, Sardinia in Italy, and the Nikoia Peninsula in Costa Rica. These blue zone areas have many people who live to be 100 or more years, more so than many other parts of the world. The main thing these places have in common is their approach to eating healthy, especially the practice of not eating too much, like stopping when you are about approximately 70-80% full. Now there are several proven reasons as to why this is the case. Basically, fasting stimulates autophagy, which is basically the body's way of cleaning out the damaged cells. This process removes dysfunctional proteins and cells which are associated with age-related diseases. Fasting also reduces free radicals in the body which lead to cellular damage and premature aging. Also, like we discussed earlier, fasting creates a state of mild stress in the body. This strengthens the body's stress response mechanisms, making the cells more resilient to other stressors and challenges that they might face. This helps them to live longer and healthier. In conclusion, fasting offers a number of health benefits which lead to a reduced risk of chronic diseases, enhanced physical and mental health, and an overall increase in longevity. I hope you found this video informative and helpful. Thank you so much for watching. Happy fasting!
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.492646Z ===
