 One of the least discussed but most visible aspect of cigarette smoking is darkening of lips, leading to a change from their natural view to a darker shade. This condition results from a combination of chemical exposure and physical changes induced by smoking. In this video, we will try to understand why cigarettes lead to dark lips and then we will talk about what are the different treatment options available to fix this problem. Watch till the end because in the end we will discuss a very effective home remedy that you can start right now that will help you treat lip pigmentation. So, let's begin. Now, there are three main reasons behind darkening of lips associated with smoking. These include nicotine, tar and oxidative stress. Let's talk about them one by one. Nicotine is a well-known vasoconstrictor. Means it causes narrowing of the blood vessels. This narrowing effect significantly reduces blood flow to the skin, including the delicate skin of the lips. Reduced blood flow means that less oxygen and fewer nutrients reach the skin cells, which can lead to changes in skin health and appearance. Overtime, the diminished blood supply makes the lips more prone to damage and they become darker due to the compensatory increase in melanin production. Tar, a sticky substance found in cigarette smoke, plays a straightforward yet harmful role in the darkening of lips. When you smoke, tar directly settles on the lips, acting much like a stain on a fabric. This dark viscous material not only clings to the surface of the lips, but can also penetrate the delicate skin, contributing to a darker appearance over time. Additionally, the constant exposure to tar can irritate the lip skin, which also leads to increased melanin production. Cigarette smoke contains more than 4,000 chemicals. And these chemicals cause oxidative stress in the body, including the skin and lips. This stress can damage the skin of the lips, leading to increased melanin production, as the skin attempts to protect itself from further damage. So now you know what are the main reasons behind dark lips associated with smoking. Let's talk about the various methods by which you can fix this issue. Starting with the most important and most effective way, which is to quit smoking. Wait! Before you decide watching further is a waste of time, and scroll to another video, don't worry. I know if you're watching this video, you're not here to quit smoking. So I won't discuss more on this point, but just letting you know that quitting smoking is the fastest way you can make your lips look healthy and pink again. Since you are most likely to continue smoking, here are some tips that will lessen its impact on your lips. 1. Use a lip balm before smoking a cigarette It forms a layer on your lips that prevents the direct contact of chemicals in the serious smoke on your lips. 2. If you cannot quit altogether, you can decrease the frequency of smoking. You can also use nicotine gums if you have excessive cravings. 3. Use cigarettes with better filters that do not heat up and damage the lips. Now let's move on to the actual treatment part of hyperpigmentation of lips. So the treatment plan consists mainly of three things. Topical creams, chemical peels and lasers. Let's talk about them one by one starting with topicals. There are several topical creams available in the market for hyperpigmentation of lips. Topical lip-lightning creams are designed to reduce pigmentation and even out the color of the lips. These creams often contain active ingredients that target melanin production. Pigment which is responsible for color in the skin and lips. Make sure to look for these components in these creams. 1. Coagic acid Coagic acid works by inhibiting the production of tyrosinase which is an enzyme necessary for melanin production. This results in lightening of skin. It is also combined with other ingredients like vitamin C and E which enhance its efficacy. 2. Alpha Arbutin Arbutin is a naturally occurring compound derived from berries and also works by inhibiting tyrosinase to reduce melanin production. Other components present in these creams include ascorbic acid, Trinacic acid, Tritinoids and Hydroquinone. Here are some good products that contain these components. I have provided links for these products in the description box down below so you can check them out. Now let's move on to the second part of the treatment plan which is exfoliation. Now exfoliation involves removal of dead skin cells that get accumulated over the lips that can make lips look dull and contribute to darkness. Exfoliation can be of two types, physical and chemical. Usually chemical exfoliation which includes peels is preferred for lips because physical exfoliation can damage the lips. However, for mild physical exfoliation you can mix equal parts sugar with honey or olive oil to create a paste. Apply to lips, massage gently in circular motions for a few seconds and then rinse with lukewarm water. Chemical exfoliation on the other hand uses mild acids to dissolve the dead cells allowing them to be washed away without scrubbing, which can be gentler and most suitable for lips. Mild chemical peels mainly contain alpha hydroxy acids like glycolic acid and lactic acid. Lactic acid is very effective for lip pigmentation and it also pulls in moisture to the lip skin. What makes lactic acid unique is that it has large molecules that do not penetrate the deeper layers, thereby does not cause damage to the lips. Lactic acid should be used in concentrations ranging from 5 to 8%. By removing the outer layer, chemical peels stimulate the growth of new, healthier skin cells leading to improved texture and tone. Usually multiple sessions of chemical peels are required to get good results. I have included links to some good chemical peels in the description and also some videos that show the procedure of chemical peels on lips in great detail. So make sure to check them out if you are planning to do a lip peel at home. A very important step that is advised after a chemical peel is to wear a good sunscreen on your lips. After a chemical peel, new layers of skin get exposed which are prone to damage by UV radiation. So it becomes very important that you protect your lips by wearing a sunscreen. Look for a sunscreen that is stinted and has SPF above 30. Now the third aspect of the treatment plan for lip pigmentation includes lasers. Laser treatments work by emitting concentrated light beams at specific wavelengths that break down melanin. The laser energy is absorbed by the pigmented areas causing them to break down without harming the surrounding tissue. Over time, the body naturally removes these pigmented cells leading to lighter lip colour. Cue switched and fractional lasers are two distinct types of laser technologies used for treatment of lip pigmentation. Cue switched lasers emit high intensity laser pulses in very short bursts. These pulses shatter the melanin pigment into tiny particles without causing thermal damage to the surrounding tissues. Fractional lasers on the other hand create tiny zones of thermal damage in the lips. This approach stimulates the body's healing process leading to the new collagen formation and lip rejuvenation. So if you're looking to specifically tackle dark spots, Cue switched might be your go. While fractional lasers are more about improving overall lip condition and texture. Cue switched lasers for lip pigmentation typically result in milder side effects like slight redness and swelling with a lower risk of scarring making recovery relatively quick and straightforward. Fractional lasers in contrast can cause more pronounced side effects like redness, swelling, peeling and higher risk of post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation especially in darker skin tones. It generally has a longer recovery period. Okay, so this was about laser treatment. Now let's talk about a very effective DIY home remedy for treating lip pigmentation. We'll be making a DIY lip mask that you can apply on your lips before sleeping and it will show very good results in 5-7 days. For this lip mask, we'll be needing 4 main ingredients. So for this, mix 2 parts beetroot juice, 1 part aloe vera gel and 1 part clarified butter with few drops of lemon juice in a glass bowl. Mix it well and let it sit for a few hours. Beetroot and lemon juice contain natural bleaching agents and antioxidants which decrease the pigmentation while aloe vera gel and clarified butter provide very good moisturization for the lips. So I hope you found this video helpful. Subscribe to our channel and make sure to hit the bell icon if you want to see more videos like this in the future.