 In today's day and age, people are living longer lives. But this doesn't mean we are living healthier lives. While aging is a natural process, lifestyle and external factors can cause onset of disease and aging much sooner than expected. Aging at the molecular level occurs due to several reasons, the most important being accumulated DNA damage, the shortening of protective telomeres on chromosomes, decreased efficiency of mitochondria in the cells, and an increase in the cells, and an increase in the cells, and an increase in the overall levels of inflammation in the body. These changes contribute to the overall decline in cellular function and the aging process as you observe. But did you know that there are certain foods you can eat that can actually slow down these molecular changes and ultimately delay the signs of aging? Hello and welcome back to MedSimplified. In this video, we will look at 5 foods that can help you slow down the effects of aging and help you live a healthier and longer life. 1. Chaga Mushrooms Chaga is a type of mushroom that grows on the bark of birch trees. They have been used medicinally for many centuries for their health benefits and anti-aging properties such as their high levels of antioxidants. Let us first understand how antioxidants play a role in slowing down the process of aging. During various metabolic processes in our body, unstable molecules called free radicals are produced that can damage cells and lead to several diseases and aging. These free radicals try to stabilize themselves by stealing electrons from other molecules. Antioxidants help to neutralize these free radicals, protecting our cells from damage and faster aging. Some studies show that certain bioactive compounds present in these mushrooms such as betulinic acid have been shown to increase lifespan and slow down the aging process. Betulinic acid is also known to inhibit the formation of tumors which reduces the risk of cancer. An interesting property of Chaga is its ability to protect the DNA itself, slowing down the potential growth of cancer cells. Another big aspect of aging has to do with the body's anti-inflammatory processes. Inflammation caused by an unhealthy lifestyle such as a poor diet, alcohol consumption, or cigarette smoking contributes to the development of diseases and, consequently, to premature aging. Chaga mushrooms also contain compounds such as beta-glucans, which is a type of soluble fiber and has anti-inflammatory as well as immune-enhancing properties. Beta-glucans stimulate the production of white blood cells, which help to fight off infections, ultimately slowing down the process of aging. Additionally, Chaga mushrooms also contain melanin, which has strong antioxidant properties as well as gene-protective effects. 2. Blueberries Like Chaga mushrooms, blueberries are also packed with antioxidants, especially anthocyanins and flavonoids, which are extremely potent. As we discussed earlier, our bodies produce free radicals. An imbalance between these free radicals and antioxidants can lead to oxidative stress. The high antioxidant content in blueberries helps to target this, supporting cell health. Recently, results of a 20-year-long study conducted at Harvard University were published, which involved women aged 70 or older. It was found that consuming blueberries once or twice a week led to signs of slowing down cognitive aging by as much as 2.5 years. The antioxidants in blueberries are responsible for this, improving memory, learning ability, and reducing the possibility of cognitive decline through aging. People suffering from neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's have collections of abnormal brain proteins that lead to memory loss and cognitive decline. Blueberry extracts interfere with the production of these proteins as well as their impact on the brain. As we get older, our speed of response to auditory stimulus reduces. Research indicated that consuming blueberries daily was linked to regaining youthful response speeds to sound in older individuals. The research further demonstrated that it also reduced the effects of cell damage in the retina caused by UV light exposure. Additionally, the antioxidants present in blueberries also prevented macular degeneration in the eyes, which is common with advancing age. The flavonoids present in blueberries are also linked to heart benefits like lowering blood pressure, improving cholesterol, reducing the risk of heart disease, as well as neurodegenerative diseases. Overall, blueberries have been linked to a longer lifespan as well as lower risk of obesity and diabetes also. They are in fact considered a super fruit due to these very properties. A big reason blueberries are included in a lot of skincare products is because the antioxidant content in blueberries is known to protect the skin from UV rays and also promotes collagen production. Collagen is a protein which provides strength, structure, and elasticity to our skin. So, this property of blueberries can lead to improved skin elasticity, restoration of skin thickness, smoothness, radiance, and firmness, thus reducing the overall signs of skin aging such as fine lines, sagging, and wrinkles. 3. Turmeric Turmeric is a commonly found ingredient in all Indian households and several other cultures around the world. Turmeric contains an active compound known as curcumin, a polyphenolic compound which has been found to have several anti-aging properties. including being anti-inflammatory, anti-microbial, cardioprotective, nephroprotective, hepatoprotective, and the list goes on. Let's look at some of these in more detail. 1. Curcumin supports brain health and cognitive function by promoting neuroplasticity. This is our brain's ability to form new pathways as we go through life, adapting to new situations, retaining information, and learning and developing new skills. So, curcumin is beneficial in preventing age-related cognitive decline and memory loss. 2. Curcumin is rich in anti-inflammatory properties, making turmeric very beneficial for joint health, especially related to pain and stiffness associated with conditions like arthritis. This allows us to be more mobile and comfortable as we age. 3. Curcumin is great for improving blood vessel function, reducing cholesterol levels, and acting as an anti-platelet agent. This basically means we now have a lower risk of heart disease and a healthier cardiovascular system as we age. Additionally, like other foods we mentioned, turmeric is rich in antioxidants, which helps to reduce cellular damage by neutralizing free radicals, reducing inflammation, and improving skin health, all of which contribute to a healthier aging process. One study conducted by the journal Molecules showed that curcumin in combination with regular physical activity could prevent oxidative stress-induced, age-related functional, and structural changes in disorders due to its high antioxidant content. A good tip here is that the absorption of turmeric can be enhanced by consuming it with fats such as oils or with black pepper. 4. Saffron Saffron is a spice originating from a rare flower known as Crocus sativus. An interesting fact here is that it is also one of the most expensive spices in the world. Saffron has a wide range of beneficial properties. One of the most interesting being its mood enhancement qualities. Some studies suggest that saffron may have anti-depressant properties by affecting the neurotransmitters in the brain such as serotonin. A healthier mental state is always beneficial in terms of quality of output and general contentment with life. Saffron contains high amounts of carotenoids, which are known to have protective effects against age-related macular degeneration and oxidative stress in the retina. Saffron also has positive effects on memory, learning abilities, and cognitive function, allowing a more fulfilling life as we age. Additionally, there are studies that show positive effects through anti-inflammatory properties as well as cardioprotective effects. It also helps to lower blood pressure and improves liver profile, reducing the risk of cardiovascular diseases. 5. Dark Chocolate Many studies suggest that dark chocolate is beneficial in reducing age-related diseases such as strokes and heart disease. The cacao bean that dark chocolate is made from is high in minerals such as magnesium, zinc, copper, and iron, which help in energy production, nerve signaling, and muscle function. Additionally, it is also rich in antioxidants, in particular flavonoids, which are known to protect the body against free radicals that contribute to the aging process. Flavonoids are also beneficial to fight dementia by improving memory retention and cognitive ability. Dark chocolate is also known to be beneficial for the skin, improving blood flow, skin density, and hydration, reducing the appearance of wrinkles. This is due to the polyphenols present in dark chocolate, which have a positive effect on collagen and elastin found in the body, causing the skin to become firm by providing nutrients such as glucose, sugar, and fat. While aging is a natural phenomenon, it is good to ensure that we are taking precautions to age in a healthy and optimal way, so we can live fulfilling and wholesome lives. So this was all for this video. Do let us know if you found this video helpful. If you want to support our work and help us make more videos like this, you can support us on our Patreon page. Links in the description below. See you in the next video. See you in the next video.