men. Scott, there is a teenager half naked with his broccoli hair. And weird TikTok team music is playing. I'm 40 years old, Scott. Explain to me why this is here. Yes, I can actually explain that max the other, which shows this footage and that's the true. Max the editor boy and to talk later, the presence of an adult. Oh, Scott, this is weird. He's really young. What are we doing? So this is David Lade in his teen years. You know, I got to say objectively, just like a skinny kid with a bit of muscle, a objectively reference to being a teenager, really impressive. And this is kind of one of these things that if you look like this as a teenager, the probability that you're going to get pretty damn jacked when you get older older is really high. It's not 100%. So maybe look like this one of the teenagers and this don't look a whole lot better after. But now this is one hell of a good start. And so I actually attribute this mostly to David Lade's incredible work ethic and dedication, but some large fraction to the fact that he as far as I can understand from researching on the internet and boy if I research David Lade a lot. Matter of fact, if the FBI ever busted me and opened up my computer files, they would find zero of anything suspect, except for Scott thousands of pictures of David Lade. What if I say David Lade is a belief of Estonian descent? And generally, so we need everyone's kind of mixed together a little bit. So some kind of USSR Eastern European, which means like, and you kind of cheating bro. Like, you know, his grandma probably squatted 400 kilos just like recreationally. I don't know what squat is, but I know it's easy for me, huh? Oh, Scott, can I do Russian girl impression for the rest of this David Lade video? Yeah, God. God. This is fake. This is real? Scott this picture. This is filtered to shit. Or he has feces smudged all over his neck and upper pecks. Oh, that's kind of hot. Scott, you don't have enough pictures of you with that facial expression. Or another. But Max. The editor boy, if you can throw up Jared Feather, IFBB Pro's equivalent of this, there are levels to this sir. So Jared does the duck face and has even more of a ridiculous shoulder to waste ratio, but David Lade, this is a really good look. Notice, notice, notice, notice. You can tell he's just got an excellent physique, right? Why? We can break this down. If he had smaller traps, would it be okay? Probably, his traps are cool, but like, that's not doing a lot of work in this physique. Pecks. Pecks look great. If they were much bigger, be a different look. Maybe not a better look, but they look awesome. Shoulders. You guys shoulders are doing the heavy lifting here. Not literally sounds because shoulders are not that strong. In the figure of sense of like, man, they really build that silhouette, that X frame. If he had even bigger shoulders, it would look even more absurd. And his arms are clearly jacked, and that's clearly helping his appearance. And super importantly, lean and small midsection. Small wastes are the number one component of aesthetics, which means that if you're carrying a considerable amount of extra fat on your waist, getting leaner is definitely an experiment you can play around with to see how it affects your aesthetics. Usually, it's going to be a good time. Small wastes, big shoulders, big arms. You're halfway there. You're way more than halfway there. That should be a huge focus of every program to try to be aesthetic. What? Okay, real talk. So it's got told me a little bit about this video before we started watching it. And he was a gag. He like, deadlift 675. And I'm like, hey, David Lane was like one of these gym shark influencer kids. He wasn't actually strong, just looked really cool. Boy was I wrong. 675, you guys, it's no joke. That's a serious, serious deadlift. Let's appraise as technique and see if we can take anything away from him to make ourselves feel better. Running gun set up is really intense. You guys see how we just basically grabbed the bar and started going shortly thereafter? He must have really strong forearms and really long fingers. And he must like just be ultra confident in his grip because like if I had to get into that kind of weight, I got a cinch myself in for like 15 seconds and get the bar kind of underneath my calisess and stuff. So I had a really good perch. But man, you got to be really, really, really strong. You just run and gun 675. That's ultra ultra impressive. If your forearms are ever limiting you and you want to lift big weights outside of competition and prepare the rest of your body for big weights in competition, but in early off season with high repetitions, you're just going to have to deal with the fact that your forearms are going to be a limiting factor and you won't be able to get a strong as you could. No, no, Scott, I said that wrong. You have the ultimate secret killer weapon in your gym back. And you didn't even know about it. Go ahead, pimple, wait, open up that gym back. What's that fresh package in there? Oh, is that a Versa grip you found? Oh, shit, big homie. Wait a minute, is it safe to open the package? Scott, a Versa grip safe to put on your hand? Barely. Riding the pitch. The very edge of safety. Why? Let me tell you a fun story. People consider, I'm from the Soviet Union and so is David Late. And during especially the 1970s, the Soviet Union and the United States were both at their relative to each other kind of peak economic power and spending the most on their militaries. And it got kind of wacky because, you know, arms races get really insane. The incentives are kind of crazy. We got to keep up with the Joneses. We can't let America punk us out and vice versa. And the Soviet Union is not known for its reservations about doing unethical things. And so they got into some kind of wacky research. They would test nuclear weapons and violate the Test Band Treaty and test them close to population centers. And who's just tough to say. They tested a lot of nukes in the Siberian forests where lots of bears used to live. The scientists would come in and they would do the research. They would do the testing. And it turns out that a lot of the bears just, they were just gone. I mean, you know, 18,000 degrees Kelvin you're done. But on the periphery of the nuclear testing, you had bears with weird mutations. You know, five paws instead of four. It should like that. Weird brain thing. Super smart bear that also happened. That's actually my dad. Scott, a few of the bears they noticed were able to scale trees even faster than the normal bears. How? Their paws were made of an as yet unknown material from genetic modification via nuclear testing. That material is what is now used on the Versa grip. You guys, the Soviets researched this and they were like, we can't put this into production. I mean, communism means hell for all people, but even we have our limits. Let the Americans take it. They'll use it. They'll make it into a strap kind of thing. They'll be able to lift more. It'll make them happier. And happy America not paying attention to world geopolitic. Then Russia's Thrike. Yes. Yes, Valery. Let's talk. And they started getting drunk. And so Americans got it. We made Versa grips and the communism shot itself in the 1989 and 91 came along. Now we out here, baby, we got Versa grips. Boy, is that a stupidly long-adry to know where Scott did we hit a PR on a relevancy? So, hell yeah. Anyway, Versa grips are dope. There's a link you should buy them. Let's get back to getting laid. Today, actually, talking one, three, right? Pretty much like a little bathroom to fill with one, three, dime, then it's on caffeine because. Yo, one, three, dime, math, maybe. That's the stuff that was kind of just like pretty much math. Scott, that's not legal anymore, isn't? I'm pretty sure no. You would have some, if it was one. My back's been insanely, yes, they're actually getting two PRs. I'll show you guys later. Now, once the 4505 squad, and once the 375, then. 455 squad for a lengthy gentleman is quite good. He went very deep, very much powerlifting depth. Excellent technique, very good setup. And Scott, the most important part here is the orange and blue combo just carries weight. Yeah, it's fine. It's Jim's line. It looks like he's in the air traffic control wing of an air-caf carrier operations crew. But boy, you know, I'd suck him up into my engines anytime. And actually, hit the bench after my squad. So, I'm moving today because I'm taking pretty work out. I'm going to have a lot more energy beforehand. Oh, touch and go, 375. That's really good. Scott, do we know what he weighs roughly? Like 200 pounds? There's some shit. He's 6 to, I suppose. He weighed just over 200 pounds when he achieved the 390 bench press. Wow, very good. That's a very, very good. And, you know, he's got really long arms. And so, it's really impressive that he can bench that much. He also, you can tell from this situation. I mean, with a pause, it's going to be a different story. So, but touching goes a cool training technique. You'll notice his technique is very good. His feet, his hips and his knees are spread out really far. His feet are anchored deeply into the ground. He has his butt down on the bench. But his back is arched to give him a very strong, very safe, optimal pushing position. His shoulders are way back. He's stuck at shoulder blades, way back behind himself. That raises the chest. And it shortens the distance to the after move. It also puts you in a power position. It's also probably safer for your shoulder joints. And his bar track is good. He's got a totally full lock out. This is a really, really good bench technique. Obviously, if he was going to do it in competition, it'd have to take a pause at the bottom. We'd have to pull probably anywhere between 20 and 50 pounds off the bar for that. This is still an unbelievable bench. His squat and bench and deadlift numbers are way higher than any of the shit I've ever done. And I'm a midget, Hobbit Manlut short, balding, pathetic looking guy. It's like, what is it that he's a David Lade's better at everything than me? Fucking Estonians. Okay, 390 Scott, what are we rating the swag here? It's good. I love that the wears the B&E and all seasons all times. Yeah, I don't understand that. I tried to do that in college once for fashion. And I was like, my head is hot. This is dumb. Then again, my head is like, really big. It gets really hot. Also, I had headlice. What I'm kidding. Scott, are you kidding? Never can't tell. Awesome. So like, a for gym lifts, this is great. It's a big bounce, which is totally fine. I would say this. This lift, I'm taking nothing away from him. If you want to lift like this and use David Lade's like, I don't know, 9.75 out of 10 bench technique. I mean, this is just damn near flawless technique. I'll say this like for safety and to be able to tell people what you actually bench and have power lifters not squint at you when they hear you do it because they know that you did it on video and it was a bounce press, which they don't respect ever. Unless you're doing like 600 and then dope respect, but might as well pause the shit. That's the thing. If you're going all the way through the shit, it was totally cool to just do the bounce press. But pausing will be like, man, you really did your best. And you have a way to measure up against true competitive bench press. With a total pause, I think David Lade is probably good for like 350 to 370 somewhere, which is. Pause to bench for 200 pound person in incredible feet. And if you don't think that's incredible, you either really strong or delusional from consuming too much social media content of only the strongest people about time. Remember, Scott, I think the average like male. TikTok, YouTube, watcher, and fitness, thinks Larry wheels is like pretty strong. Yeah. But it's like, no, Larry is like one of the greatest of all time. And anything above a 300 pound bench is a objectively really, really, really awesome. So this is dope. All these recent bench bars that I could recently have literally all been done on a text level bar, right? First of all, just want to say that. It doesn't count. No better, you know, probably the Federation allows you to use a text level bar for bench. Scott, this is dope. He's cutting himself zero slack. He just said, like, don't count. But also the mouse doesn't count. But yeah, no, it's going to be really easy to bounce and get that rebound if you time it right, especially if you train with it. A bar that flexes a lot. If you bounce it properly, it actually launches itself right off your chest. And then the first two inches are easy. Ah, eh. Um, and then it really is a big advantage because the first two inches are typically the hardest. Eh, eh, two inches, the hardest, you're welcome. The text level bar is longer and it also flexes. So the moment of bouncing up your chest or you any type of aggressive touch and go. Scott, was what we did last weekend and filmed for our other website. Technically aggressive touch and go. Very aggressive. Oh my god. Hey, um, you don't like getting any feelings about that, did you? No. I mean, either. Good. And all, at all, not at all. No, bro. No. Shhh. I don't want to get one of the bars bottom of the chest. It's literally going to flex and bend like a rainbow. That was a wholesome analogy of all the things rainbow. That's it's interesting. And then all the way up as you're pressing, it's going to straighten out and as it's straight Touch and go. Rainbow's straightening out. Scott, it sounds like that one camp, our parents sent us to. And we were friends with kids that prayed the gay away camp. They told us to think of women when we fap it. This prayed the gay away camp, of course. And so it was kind of invasive like psychologically. They would ask you like, hey, you're fap it last night. You're like, yes, and I go, what did you think about it? I was like, oh, yeah, easy. Women, they're like, oh, tell us about it. They're like, okay, like five, three. The waist from some very thighs kind of kind of fit kind of not, you know, little buzz cut haircut, little daddy's little rebel. Tidys and shit. She walks into this bar, right? Oh, yeah, she's got like high heels on. Yeah, and I'm just fucking wagging it. And then the bar is just all. Shirtless mustache, fire fighter muscular guys. She kind of fades into the background. They're just making love to each other. Scott, there's oil. And it's just just the bar like the bartender's just spring, soda and beer like everywhere everyone's just dancing. Just imagine like a hundred guys to the beat all up and down. They're groping each other like that scene from the matrix. And that's when I'm not. And the camp counselors are like, okay, is Rito. I 401's your seven and room for improvement. Mike, you did great. I love the early part, the later part needs work. And I'm like, oh, not bad. Walked out. That was gay camp. Yeah, but did the opposite, didn't it? I worked for me. Does anyone believe that it worked for me? Folks, if you're having trouble getting laid, you might want to consider joining our member section where you can watch an extended version of this very video with lots more racy jokes and stuff we can't post on public YouTube. And you get a ton of high quality, deep, nerd, informational videos about how to get jacked and about how to change your damn life so you can finally get sex with people who like to have sex with you back. All right, back to the video. When it comes to natural programming, a lot of people tend to have an misconception that somehow strengthen high pressure between your mutually exclusive and reality. They compliment each other perfectly. Natural programming is almost the same as drug programming. There are very few differences. Really with drugs, you just have to be more careful about lifting too heavy because your tendons will snap because your muscles are too strong for your tendons and many cases. Otherwise, it's mostly just adjusting volume and your genetics and training experience have a much more to do with how much volume you can tolerate than your drug use. And so, natural programming really is just programming. And if you make a special case for natural versus enhanced, there's a teeny case to make their bridge mostly the same. As far as strength and hypertrophy has the same overlap for drug programming as a natural programming, which is to say a lot. If you train generally for strength and hypertrophy, lots of sets of three to ten repetitions, you're going to get tons of strength and tons of size. If you want optimal attempt at results from either strength or hypertrophy, you have to understand that the training conditions for them are quite different. Scott, how many strength versus size training videos have we made at least two big ones, right? Can we link a few of them? I'm here. Give that a click. Look through those videos because there are differences that if you really really give a shit about being your strongest, you're going to want to train specifically for strength. If you really care about hypertrophy and you're strength is cool, but you really want to get jack because Stacy doesn't care much you've been, but she loves your deltane. Stacy is going to really help you out if you just do hypertrophy specific training. So give that a look. If you are good with yoloing both of them and getting amazing results at both, you are one harpsing and get them, but even then, several month phases of hypertrophy specific training stacked with several month phases of strength specific training are the best way to go about that. Can you train them both in the same workout on the same week? Yes. Will you get amazing results? Yes. Will they be your best results? No, not quite. So remember that our differences between them that are notable and being maddie doesn't somehow unify these differences. That's total BS. DEP is pretty much what allows me to retain as much of my strength as I possibly can when I'm getting lower and body fat when it becomes the most difficult to maintain your strength because I'm on a regular basis. Just handling at least 85% of my max and my CNS is always on point. Scott, do you remember people who say, on point a lot? Yeah. See, that's the song point, bro. As I'm point on sleeve. So the core concept in daily undulating periodization is basically having a completely different stimulus every time you go to the gym. So do you be daily undulating periodization? Daily obviously mean that it happens on a day-to-day basis instead of weekly and monthly. Undulating meaning basically changing. That's the just of it and pureedization, which is your systemic programming, right? Yeah. So this is me on my sports science high horse. Daily undulating periodization was named wrong from the get-go. It is a form of programming. It's not technically a form of periodization. Daily undulating periodization is something that exercise science researchers in the United States had to have a name for and research journals because they weren't using technical sports science, terminology and a technical terminology would be like in-traum-microcycal volume intensity variations, which is like a very heavy term to lift. And it does explain what's going on well, but it's a little bit confusing. So DUP kind of went to the forefront. DUP is cool because variation is dope because doing the same thing all the time kind of sucks. And it works pretty well, but a more focused approach is almost always going to be better in the long term. So every program should be using a form of daily undulating periodization quote unquote, which is to say you shouldn't be doing the same exercises through the whole week. In most cases, you shouldn't be doing exactly the same rep and set ranges for every single day that you do. But you guys know that's just an extension of the variation principle and you probably already know that. So DUP is kind of like a mid-20 teens sort of vibe that has thankfully faded and just use enough variation to still get yourself some different looks through various ways. So you don't get super stale, but also constrain your variation so that you're still training for one thing that you need. So if you're training for hypertrophy, doing sets of five to ten, certain parts of the week, doing sets of ten to twenty, a certain other parts of the week, and doing sets of even 20 to 30, a certain other parts of the week, even on the same week or the same month, even in the same year is really awesome. It's a really good idea, but notice every single one of those is in the hypertrophy rep range five to 30. If you're daily undulating periodization gets too wacky and the variation gets really high in lowers the specificity, you actually reduce the training effect that you want, which is to be jacked because this is all about being jacked, right? So if you have one day of the week, which is sets of 10 to 20, go to hypertrophy range, another day of the week, which is sets of one to three for strength. And another day of the week, which is sets of one to three for power with a lighter weight, then oh, you're training generally and it's working pretty well on a great way to manage fatigue. It is not going to optimize your hypertrophy results because the volumes are too low and the weights are too high in the stimulus is too erratic. Alright guys, that was fun. Learned a lot, hopefully this was a bit more insightful than our typical dick jokes, banana that we do on this channel. David Leade is an OG man, and you guys should check him out. I'm pretty sure he's still very popular and very handsome and very stonium. All good things. David Leade gets a YouTube early influencer days team body out of 10 squats at rating these little ones. And yeah, if I ever see David Leade in real life, I will cover and avoid eye contact because he's an adult height and I'm still a child vertically measured. I've been Dr. Mike and I'll see you guys next time. Woo! That was fun! If you want more fun, you can just kind of do whatever. But if you want to stay on YouTube, maybe this video right here will be continuing your joyous time. Hey, see you next time.

I know it's full protein and creating. I'm feeling better throw up. I'll be on the show. I like how he transitioned right from Diary by the decision to be like, I have to throw up. Almost every strong man is going to find their best performance to be in a bodyweight that is heavier than what they're naturally inclined to just eat and train at. Almost every strong man is going to have to stuff themselves a little bit in their eating to get that bodyweight towards most of the world. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. I'm a former professor of sport and exercise science and nutrition and a bunch of other stuff. And on myself, if one's been a beefy 270, that pounds in the way I got there was by force feeding myself, which is what a lot of people much bigger than the stronger than we do. There are strong men. There's a strongest man in the world, literally, and they also compete in a variety of contests like the Arnold Strongman Championships and the world strongest man competition. Scott have all of them won the world strongest man. Oh, yes. Yeah, yeah. They're going to be eating and talking about their diets. And I'm going to see if I can get a nutritional lens and talk about, well, how does this apply to folks that are gigantic and folks that are more normal size? And I also see if I can't do a little bent as they say in England. And if I get all of your accents, wrong people of the world, I am both sorry and not sorry at the same time. Three, two, one, let's eat. I'm a strong man. Of course, I need help to breathe. Alright, we're all strongest man, full day of eating. And there's a person with a seatpap, a machine that helps you sleep. The throat gets closed off, very gigantic muscular neck. That's really a thing, by the way. And we're going to see, see, I got like this, this is real life. Like, there's not, he doesn't just magically wake up with bright eyes in a bend. He's choking to death. That's how serious it is. Hey, it's Mitchell Hooper, friend of the channel, and we'll strongest man champion. Does he have a maple leaf tattoo on his hand on his arm? Yeah, sure does. Well, we'll sorry, hope. Yeah, like in any impression, just slides closer and closer to Jordan Peterson, alonger I do it. Well, it's like if you don't like the maple leaf and you don't like, can I mean what do you like? We've got snow, we've got politeness, we've got great people. What else do you want? How about you really just, you just spoiled is what it is. That's coming along pretty well, Huscott. Yeah, sounds just like a mhm. So breakfast, playing Greek yogurt and orange juice mixed in. That's disgusting, Mitch. Um, is that sugar your food? Oh boy. The 1500 calories makes sense. Not crazy by strong man standards. That's most people's most of their day of eating. Quite impressive, lot of food. Uh, it's as much playing Greek yogurt as I can get diluted in the orange juice. So that's made about one cup of orange juice and probably about half a cup of plain Greek yogurt. I aim to eat one of those tubs every day. Really good for your gut health. Really good macronutrients. Get your protein in. Greek yogurt is great for your gut health. It's got phenomenal protein composition. It's actually super healthy for you in about 50 different ways. Greek yogurt and actually almost all dairy products are, especially minimally processed ones are really, really awesome for you. I encourage you have a lot of dairy. Then raise and bread with margin because I love raising bread. That's a fine sport science reason. But honestly, it's a thing. If it doesn't violate any nutritional principles, which this doesn't. To be a good strong man, you have to be able to stay at your body weight. And that body weight is usually preposterously high. And so you have to combine what you need to eat with what you like to eat so that you don't just start eating your food because it's disgusting. And then you can't be a strong man competitive anymore because you're too lean and too tiny. And you're with the rest of our skinny folks in bodybuilding. So yeah, strong man eats some fun foods. Most of just to get it to go down. That's a thing. Some protein balls, which have some white chocolate chips, chia seeds, oats, protein powder in them. A lot of fat in those, which buffers the calories that helps. I've got Reese's peanut butter, Reese's puffs. Reese's puffs cereal with protein shake dumped over top. Alright, so 10 minute walks after every meal. This is implemented by Stan Efforty. Now, a lot of what you'll find today is logistics around eating enough food. But for me, eating enough food that actually goes to something useful. So when you walk, just light muskier contraction is going to soak up glucose from your blood. So any carbs that you've just eaten for breakfast is now going to go into your muscle storage glycogen. Maybe. The problem is, especially when you've eaten 1500 calories, your muscles begin to contract a little bit. And they do get higher glucose uptake because of that. But the most of the carbohydrates in that food are going to take hours and hours to get to the muscles. And a 10 minute walk right after you eat is just a little bit of a drop in the bucket in that regard. Also, because it's really just lower body and also a very small fraction of your total muscular or any of your lower body. Because Mitchell Hooper doesn't have to turn on most of his muscle to walk. So matter of fact, it might be some teeny fraction like 10 or 15 percent of his muscles actually active. The rest of the muscle cells are dormant because if you use them all, he'd be hopping maximally every time. They're not doing that. And so actually walking activates not so much muscle mass walking for 10 minutes doesn't create a very big glucose sink or response for your muscles to take up the carbohydrates. So is it a fun practice that gets you moving around a bit, get you a few more steps and prove you're metabolic health by a little bit? Almost certainly. And it's it's a cool practice. Do you have to feel compelled to walk for 10 minutes after every meal? Because it's going to somehow super boost your ability to absorb carbohydrates almost certainly not almost certainly not. And it does take some time and it takes you away from whatever you're doing in the day. It's a context switch sometimes. You know, if you put in enough tiny old tasks in your day, you can hardly get to the big stuff. So the 10 minute walking after meal stuff has some validity, but I think a lot of folks think it just has way more validity than it does. But let's go over the breakdown total calories 6,272. The macro breakdown is pretty interesting to me protein of 440 grams. I don't need that much personally. I only need around 300 to 320 grams. Accurate very good. Just around bodyweight. Maybe a little bit more in Mitchell's case. Maybe a little bit less. His body fats pretty reasonable. So 440 grams is extra. It's not like it's bad for you at that point, but could he potentially have more carbohydrate be full or like a gen. Maybe, maybe, but with as much food as he's eating, he's probably not lacking much of anything at all. One gram per pound of bodyweight is a good place to start, but since carbohydrates are protein sparing, when you're not in a calorie deficit, you don't need to have protein in that high. So 300 grams is probably what I should aim for. It's kind of really cool for Mitchell to go through his diet and be like, yeah, this doesn't all make sense optimally. I think a lot of people will discover what they're eating and try to rationalize it. You know, like, well, I do need this much protein. Like, no, you don't, he's like, yeah, I don't actually need this much and maybe I should make a change. Yeah, that's really cool. That's really cool. Just got to 7. Yeah, I'm full bacon. Full bacon. I can't get enough of Eddie Hall's accent. Anything you says is magical. Also Scott, you see that VIP Pimp Robe he has on? Oh, yeah. That's nice. He's awake, but he's not like out of bed yet. You feel me. He's out of bed, but he's not emotionally out of bed. I like to be just like an intermediary stage between us. Yes. I'm not a longer naked, but I'm not clothed quite yet. That's awesome. 2000 calorie breakfast. And it looks like an English breakfast too, classic. Full sausage, 2 black pudding beans, 2 glasses, 2 eggs. Black pudding Scott, that's what makes the world go around. Isn't it made of light? Blood or some shit like that? It's interesting to see him start off with essentially an the exact English breakfast according to stereotype, including beans and black pudding in the whole thing. You know what's funny is most people who eat this exact size of British English breakfast are not interested in weighing 420 pounds and winning the world's strongest man title. But I guess a lot of them are on their way to weighing 420 pounds and that'll explain a lot. And 4 pieces of fried bread. All cooked in butter. Butter, Scott, what's butter? Sounds delicious. It sounds really delicious. This does not health food. Sausage and butter and all that stuff. For maximum health, I would say it's probably good to have cooking and something like, I don't know, canola, lava, cotta oil, olive oil, healthy fats, not butter. And less sausage and more lean meats. But, you know, Eddie Hall was at this time in his life admittedly training for a well-trunged man and a strongman in general. And health came out of trade off of getting in high enough calories to be as massive as possible so total respect. And what put it is actually a super food. I have, you know, it's full of the Vipment P. It's inside the indolive. Vipment? One of the excellent Englishisms is calling them vitamins. Chris Williams and does that all the time. He says, vitamin, Scott. But we say vitamins in the these United States. I wonder how it got to be that way, you know? Abraham Lincoln sounds like someone good to play for that. Vitamin is way better. Yeah, and we're probably got all the vitamins in it. Black pudding. Scott, can we just get quick Google here, quick jet-chipy-t, black pudding is made of congealed blood? Yes. I thought it was, but what's confirmed? What sausage? It made with animal blood. A work fat and a filler like oatmeal work barley. Oh, yeah, that's real medieval England diet. Look, I, blood is very nutritious. Very nutritious. It's a British cuisine since at least the 1400s. Yeah, there you go. That was a British man's eating back then. Gross. And X. Go. Oh, my God. Is that part of his food? That's one of my careless cats. My EARL. It looks like a, Scott doesn't it look like a piece of chicken you overcooked in that cat? Do you have not a fan of them? No, no. Yeah, cats don't have souls anyways. Yeah. Folks, there is still more video to come and more amazing food. If you want to eat knowledge, digitally through your eyes, you have a member section with tons of other amazing nerdy content, and an extra bonus part of this video where I send to many swear words when it kept going on regular YouTube. Give us a membership a look. Let's get back to the video. Here we go. All right, roast beef in the gym. I don't 100 grams. I think I did it 100, I don't 150 grams of sliced meat. Or even I know the sound is trusting, but I did raw steak like philic steak. Basically the theory was that red meat got like a fluid in it that like fuels your muscles really quickly. I know it's full protein. Yeah. That hypothesis is in the bottom of the discipline that doesn't work. I'll say that lunch meat is totally okay to eat an occasion. We're regularly eating a lot of lunch meat, pre-sliced meat, preserved meat. It's generally not good for your health because the preservation process ends up getting some stuff into the meat that's not terrible for you, but over the long term isn't ideal. So can you eat it? Yeah, absolutely. And macros and calories and having the rest of your food be healthy matters way more than how much lunch meat you eat. If you can help it having meat that is not pre-prepared and pre-preserved is probably best practice. I don't mean it. I'm creating a philic in the throw up. I'll be honest. I like how you transition right from diet by the traditional way out of throw up. Guys, strong anti-hitting is really hard. You have to do two things at the same time. Train with mega intensity and effort and also stuff yourself. Like, one of those generally has to go for most people. But for strong men, they got to do the entire thing. A roodle, really, really brutal. A lot of people have passed it. A lot of people are men's meat. All right, he's about 3,000 calories. And then a full dollar can. And the cat has made it every turn for change. Oh my god, he still put down some cheesecake. Scott, he ate 1,500 calories of cheesecake. My man. After everything, this is the end of the day. Holy crap, almost 16,000 calories. That is unreal. 430 pounds. That's the kind of shit that happened. It's definitely not the Mark Bell, no carb diet at all. I'm just eating to be the strongest human being on the planet. So some of the stuff you might be a little surprised by, but I have a dietation that I work with. He shoots me over the diet. I don't ask questions. I just eat most of the time. I get a smile at some of the stuff that I get to eat. That's a great athlete. An amazing athlete will often just do what the coach says. And that means the athlete can understand it. And then execute it. And that's priceless because you have a very fluid machine. They're working with all the coaches. The athlete doing what they're supposed to be doing. And what Brian's going to say, because I've actually seen this specific thing before, is like, there are some kind of fun foods or some kind of high calorie foods. And people think, well, shouldn't you be eating like a bodybuilder? Like, you know, like, to lock the unbrown rice. And the reality is like, straw manners are so much bigger than bodybuilders. And they burn so many more daily calories. They're training as totally insane and just being 400 pounds walking around is insane. They just need higher calorie density foods to get in enough food. If you put Brian Shaw on an as much as he can possibly stuff himself with, totally clean bodybuilding diet. He would get down to below 350 pounds in just a few months. Because it's not enough to keep him as big as he's supposed to be, to be winning or all strong as me. Meal number one is kind of my choice of cereal. So I think today I'm going to go with cinnamon toast crunch. I like that a lot. Scott, cinnamon toast crunch is too sweet for me. What do you think about that? It's the goat cereal. You think it's goated? I do. You think it's like made in a goat farm and like Azerbaijan? Dude, you want it sweet. You just got to put in some fair life chocolate milk. Oh, that's my, that's a bit much. That's massive. Oh, my God, during bulking that sweet food is awful. Do you have a two sweet points, Scott? Are you like, full on whatever. Sure. Really, um, really rich. Like, like, fudgey dessert, like, a fudge. Like, shit, like that. That's really like that. Yeah. Yeah. Like, Mac and Island fudge. Yeah. Yeah. Like, you're like a bite. You're not. We might have covered this already in the channel, Scott. But do you know that poor some sugar on me, the sugar on the song is not actually sugar. It's female ejaculate. Yes. Okay. All right. I'll just check it in. Um, and then I have eight eggs and then peanut butter. It's a good start. And it's start at 68 protein 74 carbs. 68 fat. It's a lot of fat. And just have to have a higher fat diet when you're a strong man. In order to get the calories in, you know, don't, the calories don't work out so well. And then you're shrinking and nothing good is happening. I'll say this guys. Almost every strong man is going to find their best performance to be in a body weight that is heavier than what they're naturally inclined to just eat and train at. It's almost every strong man is going to have to stuff themselves a little bit in their eating to get that body weight to where it's supposed to be, which means being a strong man is part training and all that fun stuff. But it's also part eating and that eating is kind of a little bit of a job. It doesn't mean it's going to feel good all the time, but it means I'm stones don't pick up themselves and your boys eat and bam, your most impressive physique ever. And the RPI-Purchar-Fiat is designed to make this possible. You can customize every single aspect of your training plan. Or let the apps AI take the lead, whichever combination you use, your results will climb higher than ever. All you have to do is bring the effort. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. Oh look, it's one of our favorites. It's half the Julius Björnson from Iceland. And don't worry, Dora, this accent's not particularly ready for you. It's how all of you beat Bola Sound, even the women. Okay, so we've got meal one, we've got six eggs, six bacon, and the rashes. Scott is Russia something they just use in the the the Anglephone, the United Kingdom-ish countries because. Yeah, I've never heard of this word. Yeah. Oh, and a lot of stuff in the oatmeal got some way in their hemp seed, sunflower seeds, pumpkin seeds, flax seeds, chia seeds, that's a lot of fat. That's nice. Banana, honey, and orange juice, 1,400 calories, dope. Very healthy. Makes sense quite a bit of fat, but remember, strong, many lots of fat, because there's no way to get a lot of calories in unless you're fat is nice and high. You want to try to get that all with low fat and high carb? Good luck. Good luck. You're going to do a lot of throwing up and a lot of foods back in the going anywhere. I think I was eating too much meal six times a day, comfortably, and I feel good. Meal three, 200 grams of rib-eye steak, a cup of rice, a tablespoon of butter, chicken stock, okay. So, easy eating the stand-efforting chicken stock diet. Steak and rice and chicken stock, and where is the orange stuff? Yep, orange juice. Stand-efforting, I think you got this diet idea from somebody else, whose name is Casey at the moment, but he says it's a good for digestion. On the one hand, scientifically, is nothing to confirm or deny. That's the case. But a lot of really jacked people have kind of combined this diet of various sort of concoctions of beef. Rice, chicken stock, and orange juice. If it's very least, it just goes down really easy. A lot of people seem to like it, or these particular foods pretty special. Probably not. This is a good combination of try if you're a big king and you want to be a bigger king. You really have trouble eating. Yeah, it might be worth a shot. These guys are huge and they've done the thing. Also, it's crazy me that half-dora looks like he's got like a very good shoulder-waist ratio, except he weighs 400 pounds. God, how does that happen? Ridiculous. It's not fair at all. Why do you need to be real? Really? What's he eating there? I think it's a tomato. You just eat a tomato? You can. I have all kinds of weird food diversions, you guys. But the reason I said here is because it's just one tiny tomato and his strength coach ate with him all day. I'm a guy, I'm falling apart because he just has to eat one tiny tomato. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. That's a tough food to have the all-fiber and water to swallow. We had God. How's do you know how my drink is? That's not that I don't mind. Like I like him in a salad with a bit of olive oil, maybe salad dressing on it. But say it like this. This is the first for me. Okay. So you officially tapped on, I've tapped out that. Oh geez. That's tough. This is not good. Are we under-up-holrs? No. You all look. You know you've had enough food, you don't want to see food anymore. Tough. Folks, that was really fun. What do we know about strong men? They need to eat mostly healthy foods and they see me, they do. They need lots of protein to support their muscle size, lots of carbs to fuel their performance, and lots of fat to just give them enough calories they can stay that massive size. Because size is critical in strong men because they're other than the two way classes they have and pro-strong men at the open level, they're on a way class. So the bigger you can be if it makes you stronger, it's better. And a lot of the tests aren't relative strength, they're absolute strength. So bigger is better, which is why 350 and even 400 plus pound strong men rule the day. At the same time, while they need all of those requirements, they're still human. So want food to taste good every now and again, so you see all of the BS every now and again, and that's really good. Honestly, if most people like this, except normal portions, they don't all be a lot better off. It's mostly healthy foods, high levels of protein, very nutritious stuff, a little bit of junk here and there. Not everyone of your meals needs to be ultra clean and super-spicom span unless you're trying to really cut bad or lose weight. We're just trying to maintain a healthy active lifestyle, combining really nutritious foods with a little bit of junk here and there is awesome. We end up going wrong as if it's all healthy food, you burn out at some point, and especially if it's all junk food, you won't burn out. You'll be having the time of your life until you kind of feel strange and then your heart goes, fall down, and you turn all blue, and you're a significant other discovers you two days later, sticking up the place. That ended in a weird note, hopefully you're not eating, in any case, eat more, because you'll be stronger. He's on me. Woo! That was yummy. I don't know, it's can't be funny, but there's probably at least one funny joke in this video right here, and you should definitely click on it. If you have any questions in the matter, I'll see you next time.

I don't want F***ing egg whites. I want as many nutrients. Not that bullshit. And I don't really track anything. I'm learning so much. You learn a lot of stuff. Yes. Whatever's in this container of meat, I don't give a f***ing mean the whole thing. Someone looks at your body at the gym. Do you kind of look like shit? You're like, well, it's interesting. My philosophy is, I don't give a f***ing. Okay, that makes sense. Yeah, who'd you learn that from? You're trying twins? Well, how come they look great? It's not the trend. Anyway, moving on. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. I've been a long time professor of exercise and sports science. I have a Brazilian Jutsu blacky-bale treat as they say in Brazil. Brazilian's? All of them are speckled right. And what is it that they do? Something to do with bodybuilding. That's right. And apparently, there are other fitness influencers and major fitness youtubers. Then myself, I thought I was the only person. I thought that I invented YouTube, but my skits of frontier aside, let's examine some big name YouTubers diets. And see if we can't cock a little shit. Maybe even learn a teeny bit on the way. Three, two, one. YouTube fitness diet influencers. Let's get to it. So breakfast is going to be the remainder of this gallon of whole milk. And then I'll get a one of the six pack varieties of a crispy cream. So a normal one can jelly-filled. You get the idea. I can imagine one donut. He's like, well, you know, there's other ones too. You know, donut stuff. I'll add up all the macros. I'll keep a count. Either up here or up here somewhere. Got it. 29 grams of protein. 107 grams of fat. 243 grams of carbohydrate. 2,051 total calories. So what's good about this? What's bad about this? What's bad about this is that 29 grams of protein is an insufficient amount per meal to maximize anabolism and somebody's that's sam's size and grug status. So being that he's on a little bit of gear. And being that he's young and healthy and growing. You know, something to the tune of 50 grams of protein per meal would be possible to maximize anabolic response. Also with 107 grams of fat in the equation, 243 grams of carbs. So the solonus of the release of the digestion products into the bloodstream means that per unit of time for the minutes and hours after each is meal. The amount of protein that leaches in and amino acids that each in eventually gets to the muscles actually very, very small. So for a meal with this many calories, 2000 calories. And this much fat and carbohydrate, I would actually probably double the protein in order to get it to be enough protein. So that the over time leaching into the amino acids of the blood is sufficient, which means like, Yemen, like 100 grams of protein would be good. 200 grams isn't good enough when it comes to my dieting. That's style, but maybe theory. If you could call that calories is the number one factor on our percent. So true. It's two things control. A seven year 80 percent of diet outcomes, especially for body composition gaining muscle and losing fat total calories and enough protein. The ratio of carbohydrates to fats means something it matters, but much less. And then the digestion speed means something it matters, but even less so. And the micronutrient content generally, they amount of fiber, fight of chemicals, vitamins, minerals, etc. How healthy the food is, matters for long-term health, but it matters for short-term losing fat or gaining muscle, much much much less. It's important, especially the long-term. But if you have a day where you're like kind of out and about and everything's kind of, you know, chaotic, grabby some genius shots and get yourself enough protein, make sure to get enough calories from anything you can find, and you're all the way to 70 or 80 percent of knocking out your day. And you don't have to have the exact prepackaged broccoli chicken rice meals or whatever. Why am I putting my foot down on that? First of all, Kassam is completely correct, respect or it's due. And people will not be able to get their perfect meals in and they'll just like abandon ship, like I'm traveling today. And they'll have like a cookie and later three slices of pizza and they'll pass out in their own vomit. And you're like, you could have just had enough protein and just whatever calories that came in and gotten 70 or 80 percent of the way there. You know what I'm saying? It's a big deal. And if you've been to school before, you know how much, like let's say you have 10 quizzes during a semester. A zero on a quiz really drags your grade down. A 75 percent on a quiz if all of them are A's other than that. Man, like it barely affects anything. So, you know, your result of a, you know, 15 week fat loss diet or muscle gain diet is kind of like a semester long grade. And if you're aiming for an A or A minus on your diet results, you can deal with a bunch of days in there that is zeroes where you didn't get enough calories in or way too many, depending on the context. And you're really undershot your protein, those zeroes affect your results a lot. And obviously, all you can do is pick back up and do your best, but the shit has an effect. Whereas if you got enough protein and roughly hit somewhere within 500 calories of your goal, man, like that's basically a win. It's not a capital W win, lower K-sw win, but they all add up. So it's a big deal to remember that Samsung is totally correct. You get enough calories. You attend to your protein. Should you concern yourself about the other stuff if you have the bandwidth absolutely? With the RP Diet Coach app, we have meals all planned out for you. We have exact macros per meal and calories and protein all accountants for us. If you want that next level, um, uh, RP Diet Coach app, link in the description, all that stuff. It's great. I use it every single day of my life. You want that level of precision. You got it. But if you're traveling with your RP Diet Coach app, for example, it has the flexibility to allow you to plug anything in that you want. And if you just want a shoot for calories and protein, it will let you do that 100%. So don't feel like you need to get your diet perfect, but at the same time, if you're at home and you're eating, you know, four or five square meals per day, Yeah, they should be healthy and the right macros and good timing because that makes a difference. But if you can't do that, just remember calories and protein make most of their friends anyway. Cromble cookies. Scott, are these our friends the trend balloon twins? Hey, hey, contraend twins. We have them. It is a welcome sign. My guys, they're looking jacked. They're looking Italian, tan. I love it. Let's hear some shit. Hey, hey, how f*** are you? Cromble cookies, sushi, processed foods, seed oils. Define me and think if you want to get jacked. Woo! Especially seed oils they get you gone. I love it. Seed oils below that sugar, then maybe some anovar. Breakfast, some just focus on nutrients. What else would you be focused on in breakfast? Maybe taste. I mean different fruits, beef and shit. I guess the two important food we're providing for our beef and shit. I've eaten plenty of shit to get jacked, so I can relate. I don't want f***ing egg whites. I want as many nutrients. Good shit for my body's possible. Gee butter is a choice of lubricant, not that bullshit. Whoa, they went off-leak Caucasian with that, right? It's not, Scott isn't ghee butter something you buy after you have a retreat in Nepal and you discover your inner child. Yeah, like every you like top of ghee has like a mixture of mountain and on birds flying. Yes. Yes, you're liberated. $9.99 for two ounces of ghee. Wow, they're f***ing whole foods. Ugh, dude, these guys got big arms, man. How much ghee do I need to eat to look like that? That's the way he is just buttered. Yeah, so fancy white people turn for butter that they rip you off on at the store. Not that bullshit, and I don't really track anything. I'm learning so much. If you learn a lot of the trouble. Yes. Okay. Well, look, their arms speak for themselves. Whatever's in this container of meat, I don't give a f***ing mean the whole thing. Someone looks at your body at the gym. They're like, do you kind of look like shit? You're like, well, it's interesting. My philosophy is, I don't give a f***ing. Okay, that makes sense. Yeah, who'd you learn that from? You're trying twins? Well, how come they look great? It's not the trend. Anyway, moving on. Got the fruit, then yet any oxidants, then you know you got the avocado with the sourdough. Oh, then he's like, do treasure shit. Just put the f***ing meats in. And a minute later, he's like, ah, antioxidants. Some shit we're supposed to learn about at school. I don't know, green shit. It looks great, man. They're, they're yolks look so orange. Which white people tell me is like, a good thing or something. I'm not sure about that. So I would know bread, the eggs, the full of me know, complex. I'm sorry, why? Yes, complex. He's not raw, he's not raw. I'm just talking that shit. And no utensils. Scott, if I had, if aliens came to Earth and they told you, listen, we are going to give the earth Life Saving AI Technology to make everyone bloom and prosper. Or if you don't do what we ask, we're going to just nuk the earth right now. And your job Scott the video guy is to make Mike miserable. I have a cheat sheet for you. Shotgun sound transition emojis. RPF Richard Fiat comes with dozens of pre-made programs from two days of training per week all the way up to six days of training. With specialized programs included for shoulders, arms, chest, back, legs, abs, and glutes. Each one with male and female options. You get them all and can use them as often as you like, even building off of them to make your own customized version for only about a dollar a day. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. What's wrong with me? Why do I hate the TikTok transition noise so much? Is it an autism thing? Is it like noise pollution for me? Coffee number one. And in case you missed that, it came with a ding. Look. I like that. Linguish patty just funny. I love random cough. Who a satanic number of calories? I love it. Six, six, six, eight grams of carbs. Thirty grams of fat. Fifty grams of meat. This is really good meal. A lot of people don't mess with calories cheese. Often I hate calories cheese. What do you think about calories cheese? I will never put it in my glass. It's garbage. It's like if you digested actual cheese and threw it up, it would be cottage cheese. And I think that's how cottage cheese is made. My girlfriend is all tired. I don't even want to be in the room. My wife eats it all the time and I'm like, I've actually scoled it for her and threatened physical violence before. That's how she broke two of my fingers. It's great if you blend it. It's great. Hey Scott, you ever tried blending your own vomit? Time to shout out and our delicious, lunch meal, which is peppers. I don't eat peppers. And almost any occasion, especially if they're caught up in ricks or other foods, yes, that is clinical grade autism. Two hundred ninety-one calories, twenty-four grams of carbs, some grams of fat, thirty-and-a-three. Do you lean beef patty is knocking these macros out of the park? She's eating really healthy foods. She's doing the thing. She's for sure so far, like best fitness influencer diet. Not bad. All right. I'm back. Scott, there's a cat on her um, counters, kitchen counter. Uh, Oops. Scott, who improved? I mean, absolutely not, but lean beef. Lean beef. She doesn't look good. That's how she lives. Not my house. Not no, no. Well, you've drowned a few cats in your house. So you guys are crazy hack. One scoop. Now water. Just a little bit. A little bit. Ice cream. Yeah. Okay. I thought she was making way protein pudding, which sucks. Um, but it works for macros. And I'm getting ice cream. Okay. Interesting. I try not to demonize foods too hard because this ice cream was like, uh, is the cat the next ingredient? What? One can only hope. Blender, cottage cheese, cat. We'd wait a row in some cat. Folks, there is still more video to come. But if you're a fan of coming, you can do a whole lot of that in our member section. So you can subscribe to that. Extra duration triple x rated versions of these videos. A ton of other content by self training, gearing training tons of science, stuff and a whole lot of fun fun fun. Give that a click and back to the video. For an eight or nine bucks, which is really expensive. And not everybody has eight or nine bucks. Did that really happen? Yes. Cheese. That cat really hated being put down. Or did she put it into a blender and was at the cat blender sound? I think it's fine to enjoy ice cream, even if it's not, you know, like three ingredients. Patty preached that ship. For a young girl who looks like she was transplanted from the early 80s, t-shirt hair, glasses, and everything, you're making some really good points. I've been bulking for this entire year straight, an actual proper bulk with optimized training and impression. And I've made the most gains that I've made in years. You've probably heard that the heavy bulking that bodybuilders do is outdated bro science. But a lot of people still do them. They show that even a 5 to 10% coloric surplus is enough to give your body the resources that it needs to lay down new muscle tissue. Scott, when Canada defeats the United States in armed combat, anyone who says resources will be executed on the spot, you will be made to say resources. And your skeletal system will be replaced with a skeletal system. I love it. I can't get enough of it. So Jeff is saying that even 5 to 10% surplus over long term can give you all your muscle gains that you need with minimum fat gains. He's completely correct. So I used to do Super Bowl X all the time. All I got from it was the need to do cosmetics surgery because my fat ass got so fat it couldn't get unfatted again. This is why shit. Jeff is usual knows a stuff. I wish massive surpluses were required because then it would be yellow every day. But it turns out the downside is that you shouldn't be all the time. A few days here in there is totally fine. The upside is if you are having trouble blocking, you've been lucky for a while, you're in a quite big. You don't have a very big hunger response. You don't have to stuff yourself like crazy. So if you normally maintain at 3000 calories, just eating 3300 calories per day. But for months on end, is going to get you as jacked as anything else. Which is really good news because I used to push into the 4,400 calories and you get there faster. But the VAERS just you being fat around us healthy. When you maintain my weight at around 2800 calories per day. If I eat 2800 calories, I don't gain weight and I don't lose weight. So when I bolt, I simply increase my calories by 5 to 10% up to around 3000 calories per day. And I'll adjust those calories up or down, depending on if I'm gaining too fast or too slow. Smart, smart, Jeff is the man. At 1 pm, I have my pre-workout meal, which is 100 grams of lean ground turkey, Jasmine rice, Greek yogurt, shredded cheese, dusse, saracha or dusse, saracha. Yeah. At Kiwi, and 100 grams of blackberries. This is so far goaded diet. This is like the clearest of season diet ever. After this meal, I have a pre-workout supplement and then I train about an hour or later. After training, I have a protein shake and an evening. My diet becomes a lot more flexible. Sometimes I order a pita or a burrito. Orger a pita. Did he miss pounds pizza or is he actually ordering me to the least. food. It would be so refined of Jeffrey to order a pito, wouldn't it? Yeah. Sometimes I get sushi or Thai food, but it's often chicken, a date of sour cream, and broccoli with a side of roasted sunflower seeds for healthy fats. Are we inclined to believe that he individually grabs one seed of the time? This is a little more of a deal of oil. Eat that slow. Then before bed, it's Greek yogurt, honey, and peanut butter with a side of popcorn. Ah, man, this is a really awesome diet. It hits every single thing you would expect a perfectionist like Jeff to hit. This is goals. And they can't critique this in any way. Whatever this is awesome. If I have any calories left over, I'll usually have something sweet, like some candy or chocolate. Again, when you track your macros, you can be a lot more flexible with the foods you eat. Yeah, Jeff, you're real flexible eating almost exactly like a contest bodybuilder, plus or minus a few macros. I kid, I kid. But like, Scott, how many times have you had like five Swedish fish and called it a day? Never. I need three bags. I also can't stand you to the candy, but if it's chocolate, I need the cases. You can even eat some junk food as long as it fits in your daily totals. Yeah, if most of your food is really healthy like Jeff's was, a little bit of junk food, totally awesome. That was really awesome, Scott. Awesome, Jeff. Very classic. Today I'm going to be getting into my book. Oh, look, a gentleman I met in prison, Chris Haria. Excellent. Do my personal diet, what I eat and why I'm eating it, but before we get into what I'm doing. Scott, look at him. You made that? Yes, he's so beautiful. Abs, the tell me he's hard. The tattoo is the tell me he's a really hard. And the gorgeous face and perfect hair, the tells me, maybe he's soft. In a way, there are only two men touching with no about what? Yes. So my goals are to stay lean and strong so I can build muscle and strength simultaneously while improving athleticism. And by increasing my weight and muscle mass more gradually, I'm allowing my ligaments and tendons more time to grow stronger to support the added weight and muscle. This is a very big deal for Calstonx athletes and gymnasts and folks like that is if they throw off their bodyweight by even a few pounds in a week. Their movements are going to feel really shitty. And if you're doing all this really crazy bodyweight stuff, just a few extra pounds per week of a bloat that you maintain for a week and train through. Can put a lot of undustressed on your joints and really set you back a little bit. So folks like this usually benefit from eating in a way that doesn't skyrocket their bodyweight, but maybe gains them like a quarter or a third of a pound per week for a few weeks. Their body gets used to it. Everything goes well. Then they might die at some of that off. It's a really smooth, sloping patterns and I'm getting more muscular over time. If you're a bodybuilder, a powerlifter, you can gain a little bit faster because you don't have to have this crazy crazy bodyweight reference performances all the time. Now whether I'm trying to build muscle or burn fat, I protein intake never really changes. It's always going to stay around 170 grams. I bet you weighs around 170 pounds smart stuff. And for carbs depending on my activity, it can range anywhere from 70 to 170 grams per day. That's pretty low, Huscott. Yeah. It's pretty good. His calories are. His calories total comes off. It's a grease and piezer. Interesting. Now for fat, I stick to healthy fats and I have about 40 to 70 grams per day. Now total for the entire day eating just breakfast, lunch and dinner. That's going to be 2001 calories. 75.9 grams of fat. 161.9 grams of carbs and 176.3 grams of protein. It's really good for like kind of more of a contest prep vibe for him. Interesting. Maybe he has a very slow metabolism or something like that. But typically that's not enough calories for people of a hundred and seventy pound weight to gain on. If you're 170, you're gaining on something like. 2500 to 3000 calories in most cases. So yeah, he said it first himself. Don't copy his diet just take away the principles which are super awesome. All right. Sam Suhook gets a vibes out of 10. I just want to be like Sam and every way if I could be inside of Sam that would be even better. In that way and even just in his skin. The trend wins. They're just living their best lives perfectly aware of it. Lean beef pad isn't she great. Great diet. Great thoughtfulness. Very similar to Mr. Jeff Nippert in the balance super healthy but occasional smack type of stuff. Then I miss someone. Jeff Nippert. 10 and a 10. Jeffrey never misses. And then Mr. Chris Haria. Very healthy. Very well balanced. Very thought out diet. I love the snack option. The asterisk there and he said it himself was don't copy the diet. If you weigh 170 pounds and you want to get jacked. Try to eat. Chris Haria's diet. When you almost never be an up losing weight. Start to bump up your calories that you're gaining again. All great stuff. Wacky. To very conventional. Not so spot on with the science all the way to Jeff Nippert. There's something to learn from everyone. And if you guys want another full day of eating from me. Fuck all of you. We're never doing that content again because it's terrible. But if you're really insist we'll do it again and I'll just be miserable. So if you want a full day of eating from me again. Tell us in the comments below. And otherwise we'll see you next time. Alright, that was fun. It's got me so pumped to hashtag diet with my hashtag friends that hashtag influence more hashtags. Check out this video right here. Make it way you look before.

Our next exercise is an alternating standing dumbbell rope. Make sure to put that... Uh... It was only a matter of time until the f***ing end. Hey folks, I'm Dr. Mike Hussertial, I'm the RP Hyperchography app and Professor of Exercise and Sports Science at Lehman College. And I am here to review Gal Gadot's workout for Wonder Woman 1984. On a side note, Gal Gadot is... uh... Jewish. And so am I. You without family? Uh... Let's get into it. My name is Magnus Lickbuck. Yes! Magnus? Thank God he's back. The man behind every beautiful Hollywood body you have ever seen. It will see. Magnus Lickbuck. I'm from Macon 3-Far-Tos-Nor-S-F-Pro-2 things for you. One is Mavikings-Horded with your crushma enemies. And two is completely pointless workouts where I f***ing rip off Hollywood celebrities. And if I ever see that Dr. Mike guy, he's getting the Viking treatment. He's got the video guy, why don't you shut up? We're from the Nord, the countries with aircom people, but we can get pretty high rate. You know, it is last video. We saw him wearing a vlawor tracksuit. Something is missing in my heart. This isn't the Magnus I've come to know and love. Let's find out where this goes. I'm a personal trainer and nutritionist. Oh, nutritionist! Ugh, you want to pull him at strengh. Let's hit it. So today I'm going to show you one of the days from the program that I did with Gal Gadot. I got a program for Gal Gadot. I'm going to stop Mike's stop. That's not appropriate. So when Gal came to me, we had about... I'm looking at him hanging out with Hollywood. Well, what do I got to do with him? I got Gal Gadot. She's probably eight feet taller than me, but no sand baby, I could look up. Been looking up to you a long time, if you know what I mean. Again, I will stop. Five months to prepare for filming. When you start preparing for a marathon of a movie like this, you want to make sure to build a strong foundation. Greed, I love it. Marathon movie, strong foundation, check check. Included in that is to screen someone physically to see how they move. Screen them physically to see how they move. I wonder how the program changes other than like you lift less weight to begin with. I think she moves like any other human being, no, maybe I just don't know enough things, which is why I'm not training Hollywood celebrities. When I'm building a character, you really need to break down what character needs. And if you look at one to one, she obviously needs... I know what she needs. I basically got a fly, jump, tall buildings in a single bound, punch through walls, block bullets, what else? Obviously needs the physique. She needs the physique, of course, how did I miss that? She also needs strength, ability, agility, and endurance. I'm pretty sure he listed every single human physical quality. I guess she's got it all, uphill training battle here. To film the movies like Running a Marathon, it's not a sprint. You need to make sure that you're still healthy and that you last for the whole duration. That folks, I'm not so sure how movie filming occurs, but if you're unable to stay healthy for the duration of a movie shoot, you're probably in a state of health that exercise might not be able to help you with. You need to see real doctors that know things. Keeping someone healthy through a movie shoot isn't matter of them just being alive. Walking Phoenix makes it through a movie shoot, folks. I don't think he's ever seen a weight in his entire life. Wow, wow, Hollywood celebrity trainers. Just make the person maybe due to things, maybe. Thing number one, look the part. Wonder Woman's got to have cap delts. Which Magnus doesn't have, but that's not the hearing of that. That's just me being caddy. Two is maybe able to move generally in a way that allows you to do the stunts that CGI and your stuntwoman doesn't do, which is almost nothing. B****. They're not getting ready for Marathon. Motherf***, it's a photo shoot. It's a video shoot. Hollywood. It would be disaster if your client would get injured and production needs to stop. It would cost millions of dollars. So that's true. It would be a disaster if your client gets injured. So maybe you can take them through four-rages of motion with heavy loads. In training, progressing slowly through that to high degree of competency and ability, such that they are highly-enoculated against injury. And I'm sure that's what's going to be happening here. When building a superhero, it takes a village. False. It takes only me. Magnus, look back. I am the village. All you need this me and my Viking sword. So it's not only me as a trainer, there's also a stunt team. stunt team. Much more important job than you have, greed. stunt doubles, body doubles. Body doubles. What? Assume he doesn't also train. Fissios. Okay. In case she hurts her knee or something. And chefs. Chefs. I thought it was going to say nutritionists. This isn't really his Hollywood, isn't it? It takes a lot of chefs to keep me upright too. I feel as pain is a profoundly rich man. So what I do want to move is set is I take care of the fiscal training. I make sure that the right food comes up at the right time and that my actor actress eats it. It's good that he's like in charge of getting food into him. That's tight. I also make sure to warm them up before a big physical scene. Whoa, he gets to warm him up before a physical scene. That's kind of interesting. I wouldn't think that was the thing. I would think that the stunt coordinator would do that. And just oversee things so that they don't get injured. I don't know how he could oversee things that prevent injury. He's not a sports medicine doctor. Maybe he has magic. Back in the size, I can see when the stunt will cause injury and I can prevent it. Obviously, nutrition is a big part of building a superhero. I will cover that in another video. Today it's going to be more about the training. Scott the video guy. We're going to get that nutrition video stat. This is it exists. Scott the video guy found the video about Galgano's diet. So let me take a look at that one. Like Wonder Woman. Hi, I'm Magnus. I've been a trainer for 20 years. Scott. Helping actors to get in superhero shape. Today we're talking about Galgano's nutrition for Wonder Woman 84. I like that every nutrition video has like raw vegetables and eggs as props next to it. If you confused about what kind of video you're watching, it's an nutrition video. Look at the food. They're so healthy. I don't believe in extreme diets or short cuts. I think that good food is a big part of life and I don't really want to exclude food out of my diet. Hey, this is good stuff. No food exclusion, just manipulation. So far so good, Magnus is the man. Hey, to get the Magnus maybe actually one of the best Hollywood trainers. Which unfortunately isn't saying a ton. With that said, I try to focus on nutrition in 17 out of every 20 meals. Interesting rationale. They're 17 out of 20. So Galgano, five meals per day. That's 20 meals in four days. So in two days, we made sure that 17 out of those 20 meals were on point. That meant not only hitting our macro nutrients, protein, fattening carbs, but also avoiding simple fast carbs. The reason we avoided the simple fast carbs. Simple fats and carbs. What the f*** is a simple fat? Is that they have more impact on your blood sugar? Oh, simple fast carbs. They have more of an impact on your blood sugar. I don't know why that's a bad thing. He non-diabetic humans can regulate the blood sugar perfectly. If the fast carbs take it up, your body takes it back down. And if you control your calories, it has essentially no impact on your body composition. That's either maybe you're trying to be a probiotic butter. We'll see. My goal for Galgano is to eat about 100 grams of protein per day. Yeah, 100 grams of protein per day for Gal. I don't know how much she weighs, but it can't be much more than 130 or 140, probably less. Uh, 100 grams is decent. About 200 to 240 grams of slow carbs. 200 to 240 grams of slow carbs. Got bad? And 80 to 90 grams of good fats. Whoa, that's a lot of fat. Wow, 80, 80 grams of good fat. That's what I eat. And I'm like 18 times her size. Not terrible. Not a terrible diet at all. I love it. So Galgano would eat breakfast, morning snack, lunch, afternoon snack, and dinner. So you're probably asking what was on the menu for Galgano. A typical breakfast would consist of eggs with a slow carb. It could also be a protein boosted overnight oats. A typical lunch would consist of either chicken or fish with some slow carbs and some good fats. And it's on a vegetable. I don't see any slow carbs in those pictures. This looks like veggies and avocados. Maybe they forgot the carbs, so I'm shit. I don't know. Maybe they're underneath. I don't forget your vegetables. A typical dinner would be a grass fed organic steak. Oh my god, everyone knows steak has to be organic. Because everyone also knows that organic confers zero advantages in the f*** scam. If you didn't know that, now you know. And I salad and a slow carb like whole grain rice. The glycine again decks, which determines how fast a slow carb is, is insanely overrated. But most of these folks in Hollywood are like a generation behind modern and tertiary science, I don't believe it. So if you want to try this diet at home, there's a way you can simplify this diet and make it work. Use your fist. Hell yeah. This is your way to success. So for breakfast, you're going to have one fistful or protein, ideally eggs. And then half fist of slow, complex carbs. Your snack should be a fistful of protein with half fist of good fats or slow carbs. Lunch would be a fistful of protein, a fistful of slow carbs. It's a lot of f***ing to remember. And two fistfuls of vegetables. Dinner is the same as lunch, one fistful of protein, one fistful of slow carbs, two fistfuls of vegetables. This is actually very, very good advice for most people. I love it. Remember that five meals a day equals 20 meals in four days. So thinking four days cycle. Why the fuck would you think in four days cycles? We have a seven day cycle magnets. I don't like the week seven is not the number I like and grateton but I say that seven is bad. Then we'll eat global warming four days for everyone. 17 out of 20 meals should be on point three out of 20 in your life. By the way, if you're trying to lose fat, all of your meals should be the kind of meals you need. Three cheat meals out of every 20 meals can throw you completely off the rails on a fat loss diet. On a maintenance diet or muscle gain diet, this is very sensible advice. If you're going to extreme, this is not doable. It's going to be poor life and it's going to be extremely hard to stick to this diet. So please have that past down to Wednesday. Have a glass of wine on a Friday if that's what you want. Three out of 20 meals in your life. With enjoying your life three out of 20, that means you never have to have a guilty conscience. You're never failed to diet. You know if you had something bad or you treated yourself. Next meal better be good. Oh yeah. If you're trying to get in shape and not just sustain a healthy existence, you should probably be eating pretty much all of your food for the two or three or four months of what you're doing this diet exactly to the tea. And you're tough enough to be able to do it. You don't have to just have cheat meals all the time. Regular good eating. This is totally good advice. But again, if you're trying to get in shape, you can do better. The great thing about this diet is that you cannot fail. You don't have to have a guilty conscience. Yeah, you can fail in the diet. You just start eating way more shit than three out of 20. All right. That answers a lot of diet questions. Let's get back to the workout. So I had gallon of five days split. It was actually three day plus two days split. Three plus two. So of ours are good. That definitely adds up to five. In the first three days, we would work through the whole body once. And then the two next days or the two last days, we'd work through the body once again. So we would work through the body two times in five days. I guess that makes sense. He described it awkwardly. But whole body in three days hopefully split somehow. And then whole body again in two days. Dease. Very good way to go about it. Agmas never missed. The first exercise of the days are warm up. I'm using an assault bike. The first exercise is a warmup. Huh? And I thought warmups came before the exercises. Okay. On any day where I'm working out my upper body, I like to warm up with something that activates my upper body as well. So I'm doing five minutes on the assault bike. A assault bike, rowing machine, five minutes. That's a hell of a warmup. Usually you'd better off warming up with actual weights, like lifting them with lighter loads and higher reps. And then slowly increasing over a few sets. In the load and decreasing the reps. But this is a fine way to do it. Five minutes is a bit excessive, especially on an assault bike if you're not just, you know, sitting there doing almost nothing. I like that the demonstrator for this is Magnus himself. Because look to be honest, one-to-one, very strong. But you have an o-viking blood. And that means she's not the strongest me. I do the workout she should be so gracious. I demonstrate on her behalf. He has an excellent beard also, and hair cut. Look at those legs, Magnus got a f**k real. So our next exercise is a wide grip, lap pull down. I'm doing 12 reps and three sets. This video is odd because it's the wonder woman workout. But then he's saying, I'm doing 12 reps and three sets. Also what is being demonstrated is not really a lap pull down. Like a high row. But who's counting when it's wacky, Hollywood training? Out of terrible exercise. Fun fine for training the back. You can't be very strong in benefit from this exercise because if you're strong enough, you'll just pull yourself up off the ground or forward into the machine. But I suppose Gallagados, not terribly strong, ratio of turner body mass, so good choice. Our third exercise is for the chest. It's a push-up. Worship's a great movement for the chest. Depending on how strong you are, you can start. Good technique, man. And work your strength up so you can do them flat. And a good progression start on an incline and go to flat, depending on strength. I love it so far, so good. What I always do when I do push-ups is I finish on my knees. I've finished on my knees a few times. No way, people have finished on me while I was on my knees. Yeah. Anyway, hello Gallagados. So work to failure and then try to do five to seven reps on your knees. I love it. So you go close to failure to failure from your feet and you get to do knee push-ups and the lower actual load to your muscles. Allow you to crank out more up-scoster failure. This is really good stuff. This is a fact of high-quality training. See, I'm not just a mean person that makes fun of everyone. I'm also fair. Honestly, man, this is good at this shit. Magnus as the actor for Wonder Woman in Wonder Woman 3. That's my move. Our next exercise is an alternating standing dumbbell row. Make sure to put the- Uh, it was only a matter of time until the f***er re-begin. Alternating standing dumbbell row. I like that it's called standing dumbbell row because it's sure shit not bent over. So it's at least accurate via description. The alternating is to, I guess, piss away a lot of energy trying to do double the amount of time standing and get half the reps. 20 reps for three sets is fine. If you just bent over further and did it two arms at a time, he would get more of an effect for the same amount of fatigue. But this looks cool and that's the thing in Hollywood. If it looks cool, they'll do it. The dumbbells back on your hips. Squeeze your room-boards, your shoulder blades together. Chest forward. Squat down a little bit and lean forward. Then you fall into the middle. You rotate the dumbbell in and then you pull up. Make sure not to rotate your spine. Prevent that rotation. You can totally rotate your spine. It's totally fine. Your spine is designed to rotate. So you go slow on the way down, eccentric, and you go much more explosive, concentric on the way up. They're a great advice on the eccentric. Magnus those things, though it may not appear at times that he does. Towards the end of this program, I'm starting to superset a lot more. So this is the first superset of the day. And we're starting with a reversed fly with dumbbells on an incline bench. And then we're turning around and we're doing an incline fly on the bench. So supersetting antagonistic muscle groups is pretty decent way to save a lot of time and get a good workout. But because of the systemic fatigue that you accumulate over the multiple sets, and the switch from one exercise to the other doesn't allow you to perfect your technique or your mind muscle connection. Not the best way to train. I was training somebody for a Hollywood role and they had a decent amount of time, which it seems like she does. How would you just rest in normal amount of time between sets? In most cases, ordinary supersets, where you superset an agonist muscle. So for example, you do some pack flies and then you do some dumbbell bench for the chest. But small critique, this is fine to do. 12 reps on both for three reps. When doing a reverse fly, make sure to squeeze the shoulders together, shrug back, keep your spine and neck neutral. It doesn't matter where you put your spine and neck, you're not getting hurt with dumbbells like that. You can look up down forward whichever way you want. Put your back or neck doing 10 pound dumbbell flies. You got another thing coming. And go fast on the way out and slow on the way down. When doing it fly, make sure that you lower your shoulders and you slowly stretch out. As far as you comfortable with and then you go explosive on the way out. Good tips. I wouldn't explode out of a dumbbell fly, but I'm just being bedanic at this point. Generally, very good advice on the cadence and technique. So our final superset of the day is all about the core. So we're starting with a crossover mountain climber. And then we're going straight into rotational leg kit. Core shift. The crossover mountain climber is an exercise that you cannot progressively load as there's no way to put any weights on your knees. Most of the night entirely sure what part of the core that even trains, let's see what the superset is to. When performing a mountain climber, make sure that you lower your shoulders and you keep your hands underneath your shoulders. This is just like weird stuff to do that looks cool category. When performing the rotational leg kit, make sure that your shoulders are lowered. Keep your hands underneath your shoulders, rotate the hip and underneath your hip. It's an okay movement. There are so many more straightforward, time effective ways to train your abs. Like hanging knee or leg raises. Any abdominal crunch machine, any loaded sit-up or crunch. Always the fancy shit the Hollywood goes to. I eat it. You and kick on the opposite side and make sure that your leg does not touch to floor. I don't know what they kick us for. I just don't know. I have a lot of education and a lot of taught a lot of classes in this. I don't know what's going on. That's it. That's one of the days from the whole Wonder Woman program. And obviously different weeks would look different. But yeah, this is a tough one. I'm still super impressed with how Gallop threw this program on a weekly basis. And as you can tell, the movie she looks great. She does not know when they look the part. Oh, she, you know, one of my big gripes and this is not something I want to take too seriously. Wonder Woman's supposed to be jacked. She's a goddess and Gallagadot, the beautiful and lovely and stellar. It just kind of looks skinny. I'm going to hell. I'm going to feminist hell for saying that. But I just kind of wish they slabbed a bit more muscle on her. And these workouts are actually quite good. I'm not a 9% about the workout. Hope you liked the video. If you want to see the full program, it's on my app, magnismetheta.com. Magnus method has an app. Why did I hire a ton of engineers to help construct the RPI-perchography app and get all these gears of education to put into it? What I could have just downloaded the Magnus method app. Exact training for today's top celebrities. You can train just like Gallagadot, Alicia, Vic Kendor, James McAvoy, Ben Affleck, Alex Skarsgard, Katy Perry, interesting. And do I leap up? Damn. What do these people have in common? I train them. And now I can train you. Get full access today for just one dollar. Magnus, this is too good to be true. Okay, so that is the workout. Listen, honestly. 8 on a 10. A couple of minor critiques here and there. But the upper body workout was weight training based. Just one stupid weird movement for abs and training abs is mostly pointless because they're made in the kitchen and not in gym anyway. So I'm not holding them to a huge super high standard there. I can't hate a too much man. Magnus, you consider yourself a deem, sir. And well, forget about the Batman, that Affleck thing. You guys can check out that video of ours. We did a while back. How is it fucking train wreck? But Magnus knows folks, good stuff. And I'll leave off with seeing this last thing. Galgardo? Hello. You guys nice to meet you.

Oh, he ugly. Hey Scott, can you shut the f*** up? This is me digging it myself. Not you laugh at me like I'm a f***. Hey folks, Dr. Mike, is Rital here for Renaissance Previsation and I am also a professor of exercise and sports science at Lehman College in the Bronx, in New York City. In the York State, I usually forget that when in the United States, in the Western Hemisphere, on planet Earth, in the solar system, in the Orion arm of the Milky Way, and I believe on leveling up today, in I think what's called like the local cluster of galaxies. I think I f*** that science people, tell me I'm an idiot. In any case, speaking of me being an idiot, it turns out I have an unbelievable qualification. I've been an idiot for a long time, and I've been training for a long time, 20 some odd years, and so Scott the video guy and I dug up my old training footage, lurking about in places in YouTube and even worse, and we're going to critique the living crap out of it today, so time to slam dunk on myself. Let's kick it. Alright, so I tell you guys a lot about this video. This is me squatting when I believe is a sum total of something like 529 pounds, I forget that isn't kilos. They come in a hit it for 4 reps, if I believe that correctly is going to be a high bar squat, done not for hypertrophy of the quadriceps, but as the Hale Cacleif famous Russian left for one, so little tree, which is for the soul for the soul. This is just me, I think I was like, maybe 27 years old, or 26 years old, which means it's like 11 or 12 years ago, and I'm just trying to get really big and strong, generally. I was recently not to drug free here, and I was really feeling that swag, so let's find out how awful the technique is, or maybe not. Yeah, you have to bark at weights that are sufficiently heavy. Now, Scott the video guy's laughing is ass-hob, because he thinks this isn't the same. And it is, well I'll tell you guys that I don't do this kind of stuff anymore, generally in the gym, because if I put this much emotional energy into something, my probability of using the best mind muscle connection falls precipitously. My probability of putting out an exceptional amount of effort rises insanely, and so I can crank out way more weight and way more reps, my injury risk increases at the expense of targeting the muscle that I want. So now as a competitive bodybuilder, and I wasn't back then, I had to do my first show. I was just trying to get f***ing big and strong, and just do ego shit, and I did, and I succeeded at it, but now that I no longer do that, I don't get the psyched up for lifting anymore. Was it fun to get the psyched up? Oh, God, yes. None of this is fake. I don't fake-barke at the weights, like I was so inspired to go hard that the bark just comes out. You're just, you know, hashtag going to war, brother. But if these are all genuine heartfelt emotions, nothing for the gram, there was no gram back then. What were we doing with our lives? Hmm. Good setup. We'll smack talk. Why is my face so fat and around? Because the rest of me was also fat and rounder. Hey, Scott, can you shut the f*** up? This is me digging it myself, not you laugh and I'm like, I'm a, anyway. It's like back to middle school again, everyone laughing at me. That was gross. All right. You'll see me looking down at my feet. My walk back was something that requires a lot of thought. And so I'm super amped up with psychic energy, an inspiration and rage, positive rage for the planet. I'm still trying to be technical in the setup. Once the setup occurs, it's just, hope the body does the right thing. Go deep, come back up. That's it. That's one rep. Good depth. You guys can see that my gut is basically spilling over my belt. Now this is a strategy, a very high level. So please stay with me. This is eight D chess. Become fat enough to look grotesque. Have such a difficult time interacting with women that you are overloaded at all times in the game and actually how to talk to girls and pick them up. So much so that you, you don't talk to anyone and you don't actually get better at the game and you stay dry for years on end. It worked. All right. That's the lifting. Let's say a pretty good pace. You guys will notice I'm dipping and bouncing a little bit out of the hole in an athletic weightlifting technique, high bar squat. That's how you squat. This is a factor for hypertrophy. It's very effective for strength. If I was critiquing this from the perspective of maximizing hypertrophy, I would first of all not do a set of four, which was I'm doing here I'd leave. And also, I would pause or at least slow down the centric significantly to be able to use less weight on the bar, but have as much total time over attention and posed on the muscles in a position that is safer and marginally more effective. I saw someone in the gym lifting legs, but now that's really good. But if they were like, hey, do you have any tips on how to maximize this lift-fried hypertrophy over the long term with safety included? I'd be like, oh, oh, God, yeah. I think I'd you asked years like eight tips, right? One of them would be to stay even more upright, push the knees forward more. That doesn't allow you to use the glutes and the hips as much as typically. I would in this situation and thus it lowers the amount of weight you can lift, but it shifts more of the weight to your quads. So, if you're squatting for big legs, you actually squat in a way, but it's super super upright with your knees going really far over your toes, so long as your heels are now, you control these centric significantly more, pause at the bottom and then come back up. And what that allows you to do is to maximize the squat from the perspective of stimulating quad growth. But it does come at a trade-off of squatting as much weight as you possibly could. There are many, many people in the gym, there's nothing wrong with this, to go in the gym to get bigger and stronger at the same time. This kind of technique is perfect for that. If you just wanted to get stronger, you would do low bar squats, I would shift the weight down on my back. I just wanted to get bigger than I would do this squat as I just described to you. Knees four more, much more upright, slow and way down, and a nice posture to bottom. But generally here are the range of motions quite good. There is no avoiding hard training if you want to grow. But if you want to grow the most, your training needs to be hard and smart. The P-hyperrophy app will make sure you're progressing on track, monitoring, and adjusting your workout at all times. So for all that work you're doing, you can be sure you're getting the best results. Oh yeah. So this is me actually at a gym called Boss Barbell, which I think still exists. I used to be quite good friends with Mr. Dan Green, who is Dan Green and it's one of the greatest lifters of all time and beyond jacked. So you guys can see that I'm a few things. I wave so roughly 245 pounds here, but much faster than I am today at that same body weight. I am going to be underhander-rowing. I think like 300 pounds or something for 10, you notice it's the easy bar, which I highly recommend for underhand rows. I used to do them all the time. Then actually got too big to be able to grab an easy bar anymore and get a stretch of bottom, so I stopped doing them for a long time. You also notice that I'm in flip flops. I'll see where you're being lifted as you can lift in flip flops. This is a known thing. And I'm on two wooden blocks. And that's to extend the range of motion and get a big stretch at the bottom. So I think my technique here is pretty good. Big chest before moving, big breath in, straight back, pretty good. Touch the gut. Some people will say, but Mike, you're not touching your torso. Yeah, sure, shenan. I got just to get out so much. I don't have that far to move. Making this lift less impressive than it would otherwise be. You'll notice I'm looking up and forward the entire time to keep my back straight. Good stretch at the bottom, touching the ground every time. I would like to see a slower eccentric, ideally for hypertrophy, but this is entirely. That the person doing it is ugly. That receding hairline situation is pretty dope. That tells me like, this is an older person and this is not a lot of hope left, which was true at the time. Big chest. Not terrible. Not terrible at all. Little body English towards the last few reps. Not ideal, not the end of the world, for sure. I wouldn't do that today, but I don't hate it. Oh, and that's an old school R.P. shirt. I'm wearing the original logo. Can't get that anymore. I just don't sell it. Aha. This was when I was a personal trainer in New York City right around 2009. It was about 23, 24, 25 years old. That's I believe Mr. Nick Shaw spotting me. This is back with Nick and I were both trainers in New York. This is pre-RP. In that gym, which is now known as I think complete body and fitness or something on 19th street in New York City, and Manhattan, that you must be called back then 19th street. Or as we called it, because all the other members called it 19th. No way, 19th. Everyone was more street than we were. So we felt a little bit like vanilla. But it was dope. So this is Life Time Drug Free, Close Grip, Bench, 275 pounds. I believe I did this for like close to 20 reps or something like that. Let's see the technique. I was so fat. Look at a fat iron. 250 pounds, something like that. Big ass gut. I am doing an arch and retraction. I can't bench this close anymore with an arch and retraction, because I've just straight up gotten too big for it. And let's see how it goes. All right. So a couple of things you can notice. Is the speed with which my concentric goes on 275? But I come just a strong. Let's cut me a little bit of slack. The eccentric control is almost not existent. And I am bouncing off my chest a little bit. Is that ideal? Absolutely not. If I saw this, I'd be like, hey, that's really impressive. And old me would be like, thanks to the like, do you want to learn how to lift better? I guess. Take those 25s off my shoulder. Full lockouts. A lot of people will bench in an arc. I actually prefer with an arch to bench in a straight line. It's where I feel best. Yeah, you'll notice that I'm not very stable with regard to the bench in the floor. I should have been wedging my feet better. That would have gotten me a better result. And no, I'm actually not using any hip drive. I never did use a lot of like drive. Woo. That was it. So the reason I rack that was because for me, when the bench starts slowing down, a lot, I'm sufficiently fast twitching my chest and try a set that if I start slowing down, I'm not getting another rep. Hey, original RP logo. Love it. Oh, yes. This is 275 pounds for eight reps in the exercise science laboratory at the University of San Francisco Missouri where the hours of professor at the time. And this is with actually a deadlift bar. I'd prefer, I purchased that bar for the gym and I preferred to overhead press with a skinny bar because it let me get a little closer to my face and actually feels a little better in my hands. And I have very small hands and genitals. This was the absolute peak of my overhead pressing strength. I weighed about 240 pounds in this video 242 or so. And I did this 200 and 75 pounds for eight reps. And I'd probably not have no critiques here. I don't think because these are clean reps. You'll notice that I'm pressing up and back. I'm really rocking my head and chest back and up and then down and forward at the top. That's how you do a proper standing barbell press. And like as I was doing these reps, I was like, wow, I'm still doing these reps. This is crazy. Voila. Oh, yeah. Classic. This is a good look. This is what happens when genetic engineers try to raise a human in a lab and they successfully raise the body into adulthood. But the face and head stay of babies. An ugly babies. So baby head mic is going to squat 405 pounds for 14 repetitions. I think it was going to be 15 but I just miscounted. That's the real truth. This is from a gym in that was close to AppLatch and State University where my master's program. So I was about 22, 23 years old in this video. And drug free lifetime drug free at that point and weighing about 240 pounds or something like that, nice and fat. Oh, nice. Nice. Scott, did you throw that in? You son of a bitch. You're fat. York. I mean, York looks a lot better than I do. Yeah. The skull is similar but the fat cheeks. I got that bitch all fucking day. All right. If you like that, we have way more of it. Ugh, I'm just working me make in the member section. So give a thought to signing up and you can see the extended unfiltered raw edition. Enjoy. Oh, he ugly. You know, interestingly enough, I didn't feel ugly. I felt just fine. I don't know. I had to always had a certain amount of not giving a fuck about how he looked, I guess. So that's nice. Good work. Whoa. Come on out. All right. So you can see the mouth and Russian swear words at the bar. I really like to have a disdain for the bar. Like I like to pretend that not that didn't elaborate pretend just a very surface level of like a fuck you. You know what I'm saying? Fuck out of my face bar. You have a fuck to you know. You know, like a real like disdain for it. And I think that that's helpful in these contexts. That's nice. That's nice. All right. Nice high bar setup. Big gut hanging through. Notice I had some sizable quads back then. Okay, so you notice very exaggerated hip tilt coming back. I don't do that much anymore. Again, that was to get a lot of power out of the hips. Sit back and down. If I was hypertrophy squatting, I would have my chest up higher. I would have my knees go forward. I would go much slower on the eccentric and take a pause. You'll notice I'm bouncing out of the whole each time. It's a dangerous, it's not terrible. It's just a very athletic kind of weight lifting style squat. You see weight lifting or squatting in a back room. Usually it looks something like that. There you go. Come on. Come on. Here you go. There you go. There you go. Right. Employing rest pause. So I was very comfortable with 400 pounds on my back. I could rest with 400 pounds on my back. If I locked my hips and knees out. So I'll do a couple reps. And then when they slow down, I'll rest in breath. I think this is a good strategy for anyone to want to do a lot of reps in the squat. You'll notice that slight hip tilt forward at the beginning of some of the reps to make sure that I know which way forward is. So I can come back from it. Chest upright. Notice when I get in trouble and this is a good cue for you guys to use. If you're getting in trouble in a squat, look up into the sky as long as you're at least a third of the way up. When you get into a sticking point, look up and it's going to maximize your activation of your entire posterior chain. Fire your glutes and your lower back for you so that you have a much higher probability of actually standing up with the weight. I see people come three quarters, two thirds out of a squat, looking down and they'll miss the weight. And I might do you just to look up and you'll have an extra 15, 20 pounds and no problems. So you'll notice I'm using that here with all of these final reps. This point I'm on a breath. I was an excellent cardio shape if you can't tell. Yeah, Russian yelling. And I was very proud of myself for doing this. So I had a really great time. This is a very fun moment. I was actually laughing because I'm like, oh, shit, I'm mad. Yeah, as a gym full of people. But this is the thing is like, this was a multiple times a day occurrence of people lifting my weights. We're even that insane. People lifting way heavier weights, screaming way more throwing stuff. That was just the atmosphere. It was a truly hardcore gym. So everyone there is kind of like, let's just mic doing this thing. Great times with friends. This is me doing pull ups weighing 265 pounds with I think 25 pounds in about. So 295 pounds of total tension. Let's see how many pull ups I get. And I'm going to critique the little f***er my technique here. Look at that gut. It's nowhere. No one's ever had a bigger gut and love handles than me. I maintain a little kit. Full range. Chin over the bar. I need if I was not an idiot at the time, I would have greatly slowed down my e-centred on the way down. Would have to do that. That would be a really good idea. Other than that, I don't have a ton of hate for these pull ups. Now, okay. So I weighed 265 back then. And I was a f***ing nut nearly as muscular. And I was still doing full range motion pull ups, right? I think I get these for like, you know, like five to eight reps or something like that. And you can ask the question of like, Mike, but I see you doing pull ups now. And you might have 25 pound on, but you only weigh 250 or 240 or 230. You might even have no weight on and you're doing kind of similar number of reps. Did you just get weaker on pull ups? Here's the thing. There is a humongous difference in how many pull ups you can do. Based on how your technique looks. If you keep with your feet, it adds amount of force that you can exert on the bar. If you go too quickly down on the eccentric, it saves a ton of reps for you. Just slowing down the eccentric, the descent phase is a humongous humongous difference in how many pull ups you can actually do. So I'm way stronger, my lats are way bigger now. But I can't do as many pull ups so there's much body weight. Because my technique is so different. Even subtle differences in technique. Have a huge effect on how much weight you're lifting. And the purpose of my surgery training is to get the technique so dialed in that you don't need to use as big of weights as you normally would to get the same effect. That radically reduces fatigue. It radically reduces injury risk probability. And it makes everything better, accepted its lesson-pressive extraordinary. Mike, there's a girl up there that'll have sex with you. Look at me go. There wasn't. No sex was had. I mean, how do you have sex with a gut that big? I don't know. I never had any sex when I got what was happening. And this was roughly I think like a year into using performance and answering substances. Or shoes that tied back. I wore some shoes that tied. And then I discovered that I have feet that are basically pointed like this. And I wear out only the outsides of my souls on shoes of souls. And then they get incrementally shitty air. So that like there's a wedge that keeps me even more out this way. I realized after this couple of year period that I need to just wear flat shoes. And they don't have that problem. And that's why I started wearing my flat autism shoes. Alright, time to rate myself. Technique. 8 out of 10. Psychology. 9 out of 10. Getting laid. 25 out of 10. Because your boy was swimming in the shit. Coming up for air every now and again. I was in my dreams. And in reality, I was hopeless in a loan. I don't want to talk to. Just in the case. See you guys next time. Unfortunately Lamborghinis are not free. And I would like to buy more of them. And we get paid when you guys watch more YouTube videos. So if you watch this video right here, you'll make me incrementally more rich.

Today I'm leading you through a 15 minute toned arms workout without any equipment These are tough. These are tough videos to critique just your body weight's not gonna do a lot, man Well, let's see what she does maybe I'll let you eat my words. You're going to draw a little tiny seas Okay, yeah, I mean yeah Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength I am a former professor of exercise and sports science It's a matter of fact I'm a PhD in sport physiology a GG at sub-black belt and I body built in lift weights and workout and So does mad fit in saying fit a young woman Who's helping other folks get in shape with her own mega massive YouTube channel and we're gonna lens in and some of the stuff She's saying take a look at her training take a look at her diet recommendations and see if we can make any sense of anything and say some nice things And say some critical but all while man love and respect things three two one become very angry mad even Today I'm leading you through a 20 minute full body workout that is all on the floor Scott how come when I'm on the floor moving my body gy rating very minimally dressed The FBI doesn't call it a workout but it calls them a kind of tape that you can't just hand out to people and public and expect them to not sue you I'm calling this a lazy workout Okay, we're gonna do a lot of yin and yang today Scott on the Plusside It's kind of a cool admission that look I know you're not gonna work hard I'm gonna try to give you the best workout in the context in which you were actually able to do it I love that respect me people where they are on the other hand The idea that you can lean into laziness and still get a lot of really good fitness results is It to some large extent for many people in the illusion If you're looking for the easy way out and you get the lazy go work out you're probably just gonna get zero results You're probably lazy about your workout to lazy your gains You're probably too lazy about your diet and Too lazy about consistency and you're probably gonna fail so while it's possible that some people do benefit from leaning in to the lazy Admitting it and just doing their best and and there's tons of that minimalism is a really cool thing on the other hand It's kind of like if you can help yourself and try to challenge yourself a little bit Don't lean into your laziness that might also help too Don't anyway, all right. I'll joke side. Let's see what's going on I don't mean all jokes aside. There's gonna be plenty more dumb jokes at press into the floor Nice neutral pelvis rolling up through the spine pressing the hips all the way to the ceiling What is the color of her outfit and water bottle? What color is that Scott? I don't know but I love that they're matching it's like you don't match an arby do those with the fun I don't have a sense of taste off cucumber Yeah, yeah, I think good. Do you think that she has Element in her shake there? I mean I hope so but this lazy girl workout or sure she's gonna sweat a lot she needs a leg. Okay, TVH She probably does not need any element if you work out really really hard And you look spell lots of fluids from pores by sweating then element can be a great thing to dump into your workout drink To make sure you're rehydrating all the electrolytes back not just the fluids element link in description One of our sponsors of the mat. Okay. Let's see what was when we're done. Okay. One more snarky thing And I mean this with all do one truly a percent love in respect I'm hideous and I know this are her feet pretty big Scott, what do you think I think they're normal really? Do I have small feet? Oh, that makes sense That does make sense and then trying to hold the squeeze and the glutes as long as possible Ooh good idea goody center control really connecting with the glutes the sus great and not so lazy So if you're really lazy, it would just dump right on the ground not in the literal sense though You could also do that the disgusting workout Great, I love it. I love it. I love it. As we come down Dang in this position. We're gonna do some slow Crunches lifting up towards the ceiling. Well, this is lazy like you just in one position lined out of the ground and you're like lifting Cool, okay, and then control same thing trying hold that squeeze in your abs as long as possible Thank you about bringing those ribs together as we come up and keeping a space in between your chin and your chest So neck is nice and long Cool, so the long neck frankly does nothing at all and you're not gonna hurt your neck by bending it in any particular way when you're training The cues for the crunch are very good trying to really shorten that midsection and really lengthen under control is really awesome One of my questions about workouts like this in general is like how close to muscular failure and thus a very effective stimulus Percept are we getting here like this is cool for just moving around and if you're like really trying to get into Fitness, but you're very out of shape. You just don't train at all. You don't move much This can be like a really cool few weeks of introductory movement to your body Is it gonna get you in the kind of shape that she's in? Almost certainly not she probably trains with specialized programs included for shoulders arms chest back legs Abs and glutes each one with male and female options You get them all and can use them as often as you like even building off of them to make your own customized versions For only about a dollar a day click on the link in the description of this video to get started and So basically yeah, you want to train to look like her You can do this for a few weeks and then once you're in better shape. You see those dumbbells next to her You're gonna be getting them shits and you're gonna get off the ground You're gonna walk around and lunge as you're gonna squat so you're gonna press as you're gonna rose and Really challenge yourself really push the pace because that's kind of the only way that You can have results that look like that We're gonna lower those toes down and then bring them back up so we're doing a leg drop in this position This is a cool exercise because it shorts the lever arm by bending the knee Which means that you don't have to overstrain yourself if you're not a very good shape Straight leg lowering is really really tough and it also means you won't like flip over while you're doing it It does limit the exposure to length and tension at the bottom your abs aren't super stretch because your toes touching you come back up But again, very much in line for the in a very introductory exercises that are going on again if you feel your back Starting to come off the floor you can just slightly lower the toes and then bring them back up They don't have to touch the floor nothing wrong with your back coming off the ground totally totally fine Your hip flexors actually pull up against your spine and thus bring it up no big deal at all lower Bring the knee in towards the chest and out as you bring that knee in make sure you're keeping this Same height So directly out from the hip and don't let your body fall back. We want to use our core Now the lifting leg part does does train some glutes and a little bit of a bleaks The coming up with anything Doesn't do much Hello everybody welcome back today. I'm leading you through a 15 minute toned arms workout without any equipment These are tough. These are tough videos to critique mostly because I really have a thing for White background plant based minimalism and how can it look Scott look at the scene? But I'm a serious note seeing a side You guys there's no way to train your arms with just body weight Maybe I'm gonna eat my words in a second Scotchy picks up the plant and starts curling it you're like damn Okay, yeah, you know we're allowed to use shit in the room Let me go on this rant for you guys for a second It's totally fine to ask the intellectual question of How little can I do and still benefit? Like if you are totally over the career thing It's totally fine to ask like what kind of job can I get that'll pay the bills and give me as much leisure time as possible to pursue my hobbies totally fine But there is a floor to answers of that question that are valid and in just the same way asking how little can I do? Little measure does any way time Of the workout intensity of the workout Frequency like do I have to train five times a week and I train once and Even do I need to use weights at all like do I need to go to the gym? Do I need to have dumbbells do I need to have bands? Do I need to have anything and There's this totally normal totally cool natural human desire task okay if I do this little Can I still get something that I can be like hey I'm working out? I'm getting a benefit and up until a very low point the answer is yes and Surprisingly if you're really creative and you guys can check out my appearance on the diary VSCO podcast where I talk about this Jaws would like 15 to 25 pound dumbbells and one bench and maybe not even a bench You could have excellent physique results in many cases with just man really an hour total per week of training Two very intense sessions notice the tradeoff to intensity twice a week But we also have to admit something that yes while to a point doing less can still get you something meaningful There's a drop off there you guys it to wear like yeah just your body we're just gonna do a lot man This is a real thing well, let's see what she does maybe I'll be eating my words I'm always impressed with a cleverness like this is very creative like I would have never come up with Sees shit. I'm doing eskachi's like that's a G you can get it. I'm like oh god damn I'm doing a little loop at the end shit. Okay. Yeah. I mean Yeah It's a weird feeling when followed somebody and They've been vegan for a while oh boy vegans stay calm stay calm. I will say things about the get us a minute second and then they come out and say that they're not vegan It's kind of it's like a total WTF moment. I Decided to include a very small amount of animal products into my diet because I wasn't feeling my best I'm still pretty much plant-based like I would say my diet facts Check this out vegans Plant-based diet has a very important Three operative terms in it Plant-based diet diet self-explanatory Damn it. I chose the wrong finger Plant self-explanatory. Let me just leave these off based When a diet is based In or on plants that in Typical understanding of human language Seems to me not to say that it is bereft of everything else Like when you say the Asian peoples have a rice-based diet Which they do It is not that you're saying the eat only rice because they don't Having a base of something can be understood to Represent the fact that is the majority of the intake that may be as the most high frequency food that it Composes the vast proportion of calories or nutrients that the eat and that is all facts What based is not supposed to convey Is that it is the only thing that they eat So it turns out the vast majority of people in the world short of like carnivore dieters or Inuates who eat a mostly meat diet you could even say a meat-based diet Almost all diets are plant-based you guys most human calories come from plants and not from animals as consumed And so the term plant-based diet I can't tell if it was developed With all the best vegan intentions in mind to be a fuscatory to the idea that it's really just the vegan diet Which is what it actually is Plant-based diet. I tell people I eat a plant-based diet. They're like you eat meat all the time like yes That's correct but I eat the vast proportion of my calories from plant sources When I go to Chipotle to get a burrito I get a tortilla Scott plant-based or not Rice how we doing so far beans And then I get chicken and I get some cheese sauce Chicken and cheese sauce is like one fifth of my burrito by volume and one third by calories That is a plant-based meal you guys there's no other way to say and I don't need to take the sales out of the vegans who are in I think the final maybe that final it sounds a little dramatic In the long term of history are going to be judged is just more ethical than the rest of us and really more forward thinking and kinder I think in the end the vegans win I think once lab grown meat becomes a possibility here in the next I don't know how many years I'm sure it's this shit switching. I absolutely have no intention of hurting anything ever The idea that animals have to suffer from I asked to eat a food that feels nice to me in my mouth is dog shit But at the same time I really like clarity in terminology and so when you say plant-based diet that's saying almost nothing at all because almost everyone is a plant-based diet What you really want to say is vegan diet. I know what's the sales tactic? You say all plant-based because people like typically associate Unfortunately vegans with no offense fellas no offense statistical accuracy Psychotic socialists That hate you and will throw things at you and they'll spill red ink on you and you wear fur And they're coming almost always from the best possible place. I mean like industrial slaughter of animals Is it really fucked up now? It's a nuanced perspective because if you can take a really good steps to make sure the animals are not suffering You let them live at or above their naturally expected lifespan You inoculate them from almost all disease completely save them from predation So like pasture raised cattle for example Is by no means clear doing an ethical thing you can say well you're restricting animals freedom But the animals have like a understanding of a epistemology and enough to know that agency is something they really want Probably not cows sure shit not and so if you're raising an animal way beyond its expected lifespan in the wild In a quality of life that is objectively higher than it would get in the wild and then you slaughter it for meat That's probably not an ethical really an ethical is Suffering plus plus then some Narly fact reforming which I think should be some combination of I don't know about outlawed maybe outlawed But definitely like I think most people who have the money should be buying food intentionally That's ethically sourced with animals that are having a good time until they're a little older and Way older than they'd be in the wild and they're very humanely put down and all all this great I think that's totally fine But on the vegan side there's this huge huge advantage of like dude killing other things for food is kind of And it kind of is But if you speak clearly and address your vegan concerns say look I'm not gonna call plant based I'm a call that vegan you know why cuz it's vegan and That's a good thing because the vegan diet is a morally superior diet period It's got if I was like a more of a man else fear guy and a carnivore dude I could have really interpreted this video totally differently huh? See what I'm talking about man This is the implementation of our society brother First they want us to turn vegan so our hair falls out Then they want us to drive preuses Scott what else can we say What what's next The globalists Down the drain we go Anyway, folks, there is still more video to come but we have a members area where you get an extended version of this video every other exercise science critiques videos tons of vlogs and vlogs from Jared and myself training in the real world tons of nerdy stuff Little bit of extra money tons of extra value give it a click somewhere around here And back to the video right now. There's no I've struggled a lot with my hormones I've struggled a lot with very very bad period pain It's been something that I've been struggling with pretty much every since I'd gone vegan came off the birth control pill And I started to include animal products I started to notice a big difference I was struggling so much to the point where I was at my breaking point where I I was just like Ready to completely give up. I was struggling with really bad anxiety depression My skin Well, that's intense husk out Was horrible and the pain was Absolutely insane like The worst pain I've ever felt in my entire life to the point where I was throwing up Every single time I got my period because the pain was so intense Well, that's fucked up. I sure hope Maddie gets her shit sorted Here's the thing for folks that need to consume animal products But they're ethically vegan but their health isn't allowing them Definitely of course number one is try to make sure you check all of your supplementation boxes More protein more b vitamins and any talk with chatGBT will tell you exactly what more you need to be having If that's not working then the next thing you can address is absorption issues sometimes you think you're eating enough of something But it's getting absorbed out of fifth of what normal people normal people you're totally normal The average person can absorb and so you just need a lot more of it sometimes that helps If that's not a thing that is effective You can consider moving into animal products that are ethically acquired and that is actually a possibility because V in check this out If the average insert animal here that you're gonna be eating parts of lives 10 years in the wild and Typically dies in a really f-dup way and by the way almost every animal Every animal in the wild dies when they're just get older and their body isn't good enough to do normal things anymore And they break a leg trying to climb a tree for food and they just like Scatter around the ground and starve to death slowly and agony that's a real world There is no pokahonus paradise out there does not exist If you can have a situation where you're raising similar animals Scatter yes in this case we're eating squirrels in this example And you know instead of 10 year average lifespan You know every animal you slaughter has to be at least 15 years old or something like that or whatever the the analog is here And so it's outliving its natural Comparator group on average by a long shot and also it's Inoculated against any kind of diseases that we know it gets antibiotics and all that good stuff Which by the way are very good for animals because it keeps them from rabid bacterial infection Is that a way more f***ed up and at the same time they're completely protected from predation Then the and you know and they're allowed to roam in a very huge enclosure and Socialize with their animal friends and their families then all of a sudden it's kind of like Had it actually happened a better time in captivity and then when you consume their animal parts later You're really kind of like not doing anything that seems ethically off limits for animals and so Then it's time to get into Basically the kind of farming practices and consuming animal products from the kinds of Producers that follow very ethical practices and I didn't no matter where you live You're gonna be able to find some ethically sourced animal products eat them to the whatever minimum That you need to fuel your best. It is a many plants as possible to fill the difference That's probably the way to go but for most people I will say if you're not particularly attached to the idea of eating meat and You want a consider going vegan It's not gonna improve your health because there's no health difference between vegan and I'm never a diets if you factor in like everyone's eating healthy food and controlling it and take a V excessive calories But it's just as healthy and if you supplement properly and you keep track of your health It is definitely awesome to be in a world where you're not contributing to animal suffering at all Yes, I know that if you eat farm foods that are plants you're killing a ton of squirrels and rodents when the fishet gets Farmed again You have to ask the question of do those rodents die any worse or more painful of a death getting chopped up by a combine Then they would getting torn apart by a jack-old answer is no, it's probably better for them to be killed by the combine Yes, I do mean that so on average because all animals die If you were a vegan you're causing less animal suffering than if you were meat eater Never mind the fact then again in addition that meat a meat eating Humans consume the animals that also consume the grains so you're consuming double the grains and some effect even much more than that Because over its lifespan the cow eats way more grain than you will ever eat And so all that taken together. It's a really good to be a vegan vegans get my utmost mad love and respect and And That would be great if more people were vegan do it smart so that you don't have to come back and say veganism doesn't work Because most of the times it does for some people at work It won't work and then ethical farming of animal products is where they're the way to go Give that some thought and if you're vegan and you're Goth and you have colored hair I'm married but if I wasn't you know what's up? Scott's video guy. I'm saying you can hit him up to Huh Maddie You're awesome you're doing God's work helping people get in shape All my critiques were very well meant and I hope your health takes a turn for the better I've been Dr. Mike and I give this video a what the was this all about why am I saying vegan stuff out of 10 see you guys next time All right that was cool said some stuff all of nurse-necked all good vibes. They do get critical and that's the job Um If you want more of that stuff and there's right here is another video and I'll see you next time

Did you punch him by the f***er's face? It just had to explode at at you. I'm pretty sure if you get that much blood on you, somebody lost the match at that point. Holy shit. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here. I'm the creator of the RPH hypertrophy app, and I'm Professor of Exercise and Sport Science, and Lehman College in the Bronx in the Urex City. I'll spare the rest of where I'm from. Jake Paul is a person on the internet that I know almost nothing about. And Scott, if anything, I was like, hey, do you want to review this training? And I said yes. So that's fine, how are that goes? All right, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to Fight Night Circuit. I heard he was very good at fighting. This is curious. I do have a bit of an expertise in combat sport. I'm a Brown Belt Brazilian agency. I've competed a bunch. I've been paid to fight at least once, so technically that makes me pro, but only technically. I'm not that good at jujitsu, but I've been beat up a lot. And I've studied quite a bit about how to organize combat sport training, specifically weight training, a four sport position to be the best combat sport athlete possible. Let's see what I first find. Love his gloves. I can't even see his hands because it's so camouflaged. The goal of today's workout is to simulate the fight. We're going to have crowd noises playing. The air horns will be black. It is going to be loud as shit in here. And we have the craziest circuit. I can't tell if this is just for clicks. Or if they really think this is effective, I don't really have a problem with simulating the environment. I think the best time to simulate that would be when you're actually in the ring sparring, because that's the maximum sport specificity you're in the ring. You're sparring in training. And if you have crowd noises and air horns, like that's actually kind of smart to do. So I like that. If they're going to be doing some kind of weight training or a plyo circuit, the specificity is already so off that incrementally increasing the specificity by a small margin by doing crowd noises and air horns, it doesn't seem to fit all that well. But his coach looks like he knows things. So let's find out what he has to say. We're going to be tabernated to the full body. I'm saying I've tapped a few full bodies before. Road and bows, I'm saying. Just kidding. I've seen it on the television. And I was like, gee, whiz of people look like they're having a lot of fun with each other. I hope they're both wearing condoms. Is that how it works? You want me to hit upper body, lower body, feed agility. I like how you gave us a list of what has included in whole body. He's like, for those idiots, if you don't know what that means, there's an upper body and a lower body at least, I think. And there may be more parts of the body that I'm missing. We want some punches going to be. Some punches. I love that they're just getting in their like, wrappers in front of a camera style. Like, cutting each other off. Like, no, no, no, my man is trying to stay here. Is it again, agility, he's like, yes. And punches, yes. What else we got in all, babe? It's basically 30 minutes of health to simulate what the fight is going to be like. August 6 coming up as you guys know I'm taking a mass scene rock, man, junior. A seam, Rahman, junior. I don't know anything about boxing. I mean, literally almost nothing, especially from a fan perspective, if who's good. But if your name sounds like you're a black muslim, you're going to be beating my ass. That's the way I think about that shit. You don't want to ever beat a black muslim in a fight. That's nonsense. Scott, the video guy, can we look up if Jake Paul indeed won that fight or lost it? Can't so do the way this happens. Fight never happened. Rematch or no? Somebody didn't make way. That sucks to trade for that long and then. This is the fight. That circuit is going to be the case. Let's go. If he was my coach, you'd be like, hey, like, I like the air horn, but I don't like the air horn stuff fucking blow it into my face. So we're going to start off attacking the cold with some boxing, throw not some jams or come right here. Battle of Rome 30 seconds. Next station, verse of time with 30 seconds. We just have an oil line. Come right here. Can't hang please. By the time that you get through three high cardio demand exercises, the hand cleans are going to be so matte technical and so not conducive to training repeat power output that is curious to put them there. It's something that can work, but it's unlikely to work if the person maintains excellent technique and continues to provide a lot of hip drive through that movement. It can work. We'll see if it does in a second. 10 pull ups, fast as fast as you grab in the hammer. Part of all the way down. Tire flips. We're down there coming back the whole time. They're going to be throwing water in my face. You never know what's going to become an attribute in the fight. You never know what's going to become an attribute in a fight. I mean, I don't think the fight promoters lot to have a super-soaker that he shoots at people. You can be pretty sure in a fight that you don't get water in your face. Now the guy could sweat in your face. He could sweat in your own face. It's interesting. I would say this is like flashy bullshit for the sake of flashy bullshit. You can get your eye probe. You can get blood in your eye. I hope they like my last fight. Eye probe blood in your eye. Maybe you just go for full specificity and have that. I'm kidding. So hold on. They're going to be throwing water in my face. I'm going to tie our lips and come right in here and you guys are nice. Good squats. Squats after tire flips. I'd like to see that. Jesus. So the thing that goes BJ is going to bring them right here. Yeah, Coach BJ. No offense. All of you guys can beat my ass. BJ is a funny name. Do you guys know why? I don't know. Just feels nice to say. BJ. I've heard people have BJs. I don't know what that means, but I heard they're fun. Somebody loving you. Down there. I'll cut myself off. Okay. All right. I like it. A little body work. One minute body punch. I see him. Come on for your body. I see him. You a little bitch. You better make way. Ha ha. JK. One of us didn't. Scott, do we know who didn't make way? Yo, Ha'sime. Legit saw this video and he was a man. Fuck that. This guy's going to f*** me up. The way he's getting through this **** an obstacle course. I'm about that life. Mike, they re-guided 200. And he was 211 degree. And he was like 214. 214. 48 hours out. He didn't even try. My man. Making way. Dude, I'm not. I love the Ha'sime approach, man. That's that real life. Talk that shit. You sign a **** contract. And you just don't **** do dick. I love him. That's real shit talking. I made you prep for a fight pussy. And I didn't even show up ready for the show. I was that for **** Mike drop. Come off the body, punch his right here to some reverse ain't time push up. Nice. These are all by themselves quite good movements. The arrangement of so many of them in a row deludes the purpose of the training into a question mark. Knock those out. Hop on a ladder and roast me coming down. Got it back in a couple times. And I got it all. They were like, I every single exercise in the gym. You're going to do that shit. He's like, are you serious? Yep. Line him up. This is real real real shit. Let push him all the way down all the way back. So this would come back up those slid holes. Hop him right here on the first climb. You hold up versus a climber again. The salt like that, David. Oh, he got it wrong. It's the assault bike. I'll technically speak in a very similar move. We didn't name everything in the damn gym today. Cause that's how crazy going. He literally said, right? I just made a joke about. Yeah, folks. Prop or training doesn't mean doing everything. The proper training means figure out what you have to do. Your highest return on investment things are. And then organize them in a way like building blocks with them. Make the most sense to do. Like if you're taking a girl out to a restaurant to eat, which I don't know anything about. As I've never been out of the girl or to a restaurant or in public. But in any case, you know, you don't have to take the bitch to Italian, Chinese, you feel me American, Japanese food, and then back to French cuisine. You got to take her to a one nice place and usually seals the deal. Get that bitch a f***. A bucket of chicken from KFC. I said, you're in. Then you take her home and be like, would you think about that bucket of chicken? She's like, I love you. You know, like I know. Let me call my friend B.J. He's not picking up. Try to fit. Try to fit it. Time to imagine these things go. Correct me in the comments if I'm wrong about how dates work. If you guys like that, we have more of the extended cut in our member section. So give that a sign up and maybe you like things that happened there. Finish it up with some ads. Some reaction is some RFR. So yeah, they got a one round. We got three round. Very curious. That's a lot of stuff. I'm like God, dude. Yo, his training partners may like do this. Sox, everyone's f***ing yelling. The rumble sound, the air horn. This is what you're making. Dancehall, we're in a f*** box in jam. What the hell is going on here? He can't punch. He was f***ing ass up. I better be a sh** off the f***ing up talk on all this shit. You're just going to catch my ass. I'll be like, yeah, I heard you were a big funny man on YouTube making fun of my shit. I'm going to Mr. Jake Paul. If there is a chance for me not getting beat up by you, I'll do anything it takes. I heard you had a friend in B.J. I'm that friend now. Let me see you. I'm thorough and well studied. And eager. And technical. And I do with love. And a real interest in the fact that you have a good time. What? Secretly? I'm having a good time too. Let me up. We don't even have to be. That'll roast. Battle ropes is very good conditioning for boxing. And is a good movement by itself for this purpose. But in the context of everything else, it kind of loses some of its value. His training partners really look at that cell phone time. I know our numbers work, but I just don't want the shit to sneak up on me. I better say right away when it's time to switch. That occasion. First a climber. Okay, honestly bro, like, I don't mean to talk that shit. This is my job. So all fun and jokes. All fun and jokes. He's not really cranking on that thing. Like you don't do a circulate this to survive the shit. You do it to excel at it. You gotta push yourself. And I'm not saying he's not pushing himself. But I'm saying he might not be pushing himself. Look at that f*** arm speed. He's kind of coasting along. Like, you go faster. But maybe I just don't know when it's on purpose. The way I see this is a sport scientist is all this stuff. It's time not spent actually training boxing technique, boxing conditioning, boxing tactics, boxing strategy. You could do all the shit in the ring. And if you really want an extra crazy conditioning hit, just put on a f***ing weight vest. And then go in the f***ing ring. Now you're slow and heavy and you gas faster. And you still gotta throw those hands and keep that defense up. Move around because I shen yourself against a rotation of fresh guys. You just can't really beat training like that. Hey, clean time. Now, folks, the hand clean is an exercise that is a supposed to develop your ability to triple extend. Extending at your ankle, your knee, and your hip. It's the jumping motion with weight in your hands. And the proper way to do it is to hinge and do a double knee bend. So you dip your hips once the bar clears the knees, under the bar, and f*** it into the air. Literally, poof, you pop your hips up into the bar. That's the purpose of the hang clean. Doing the hang clean from multiple reps when you're already tired. If you can do that technique, works on maximizing your endurance. Ability to do what's called repeat power. High power output. One, two, three, four, five, six, et cetera. Number of times. It's a great exercise. This is a totally great way to use it. If you do not triple extend with it, it becomes kind of like a weird back and shoulder exercise that does just not a whole lot more than tired you out. So let's find out how we're doing it. Hey, my head. Hey, my head. Hey, my head. Hey, my head. Hey, my head. Hey, my head. Hey, my head. Yeah, see plus. Pull ups. Hey, partial pull ups. You're most of the benefits of pull ups isn't that bottom half, bottom third. Big, last stretch. He's not doing that because he can't do as many pull ups as he'd after in order to be able to do that. I understand. So technique here is not great. Zero zero zero. Not terrible, but not great. All right. Hammer or tire. Yeah, okay. So I'll just cut to the chase. This is a great exercise to develop power in your anterior chain, which includes your hip flexor, your abdominals, and it basically allows you to curl your body powerfully. And it's a great exercise. And if in only if you do it with force intent to move has to be high, you're going to try to slam that hammer through that entire. He's just kind of surviving. Is this the best alternate use of his time? It preparing for a boxing match. Is there anything you could be doing with this 30 minutes and with the amount of fatigue that he is a lot of to this, which is a lot. Is there a better way to train for fighting? And the answer is it's either high power, high force lifting, a bit of basic conditioning work, and almost the rest of it needs to come from a variety of boxing drilling and sparring. Athletes, train in ways very similar to how they play their sport. The physical body is cool to have in great shape. But you got to remember that you're not there. The event isn't fucking hitting the ship with a hammer, and as there's no verse of climbers in the ring, there's just one dude into the face you don't like. You got to train much of your training as much as possible. Hitting people in the face were replicas of people, pads, shadow boxing, heavy bag, so on and so forth. Tire flips. Again, another. Oh, that's a lot of water. Did you punch him by the f**kest face? It just had exploded at you. I'm pretty sure if you get that much blood on you, somebody lost the match at that point. Holy shit. I mean, somebody is this point. Should shock him in the testicles. That's unexpected and it'll upset you. Yo, I love the spirit of the thing, but there's must be better ways to train for the sport of boxing. They don't get as many YouTube clicks. They sure win more fights. We are the back of the ship. I love the like low key hip hop in the background. Like, man, I'm just driving around to my Impala, getting water sprayed in my face. Time to do squats. I guess if I remember correctly, yep, 135 and the squat. The music still playing. Oh, God. Yeah, some half squat training at this point mostly. The glutes and lower back. It's just, this is just hard stuff. Things to make it hard. And I'd be on harder if he dunked it. It actually went full range of motion. For a boxer, that's not very important to do, but if you want bigger stronger, more powerful legs, doing so for engine motion squatting is probably ideal. It also burns legs out more, challenging him in the circuit more, but I don't want to get too critical in technique. Because you're just sort of beyond that to think. When the grand scheme is such a random disaster, the specifics are almost don't matter. What I'm trying to say is, there are intelligent contexts in which partial range of motion lifting is excellent for boxing. This is not what I'm feeling. There is no avoiding hard training if you want to grow. But if you want to grow the most, your training needs to be hard and smart. RP Hiperchography app will make sure you're progressing on track, monitoring, and adjusting your workout at all times. So for all that work you're doing, you can be sure you're getting the best results. Alright, work in the body. Now like, he's punching not so hard. This looks a lot like what my wife and I do every Saturday morning, but it's much more psychological for us. Alright, decline pushups. Okay, so like, I don't know what to say about this. Halfway down, zero, zero, zero. He could easily look forward and then touch his chest to the ground. It's just kind of bouncing around these are terrible pushups. Limited application to boxing. If you wanted a better transfer of training, you would have a closer grip and keep your elbows in a little bit, because that's how you throw punches. You typically don't punch from out here. So unless you're trying to hypertrophy the chest on purpose, which I don't know the any of this is really on purpose at this point. Yeah, we've done some, it looked into the ladder and it turns out that like, if you do the ladder drill off and you're testing who's already the most athletic and as the best footwork. And then you're letting those people just become better at the ladder as a skill in and of itself. It's not a terrible training modality. It's good for basic development like when you're training children to move athletically. But the best way to do footwork and boxing is to do boxing specific footwork, which this is not. Oh, that's right. Slide pushes. Yep. I don't really know how sled pushing transfers a ton to boxing. It's probably okay for repeat power development, but you got to move a little faster than that to get that effect. It's just kind of ways of making someone work more. As we'll get a job at Walmart stacking boxes at this point just stack these boxes really fast. Great. I'm in boxing shape. All right. We're on the bike. He's either insanely exhausted or he's not trying so hard. Maybe he's working on pacing himself, but again, pacing is such a thing. It's the thing you want to do in the boxing training specifically. That's where pacing helps you the most. In physical training like this, generally you don't want pacing, you want to go more or less all out so you can push your systems further. All right. Working on some ducking. It's cool. Again, a fine movement by itself. That's cool. I love the tennis ball stuff. So some hand reaction stuff. Again, this is a thing you would benefit from doing fresh and as a warm up for a technical boxing session. Now when you're doing it tired, I'm not so sure it makes you better at it. You just kind of suck at it because you're tired. Again, this is also allowing him to recover substantially, so it's not improving the quality of the conditioning work. Oh, we got some grappling work here. Looking for the underhook. That's cool. You're f***ing alone. Dope. Yeah. Again, these folks know how to train hard. The direction of the training should be at least a little bit more specific. Yeah, one at a time, this is a f***ing giant waste of time. I have no idea what that exercise is training. I've never seen anyone do a face pull to the top of their head. What the f*** is that? F***s. Folks, when you're training for sport, get you a sport scientist and a sport coach. Tape, organize your training in such a way that makes the most possible sense. So that when you're training for boxing, you do as much boxing as possible to get you the most technique, the most tactics. And you minimize the amount of training you do for basic cardio work, and you minimize the amount of training you do for strength and power work down to the very core essentials. But pay the biggest dividends so you can get better baseline of endurance with a little bit of running. You get a much better baseline of strength and power with a little bit of lifting weights in the gym, very simple movements. And you spend the vast majority of your time in the ring, working with pads, working with bags, working with a coach, do some shadow boxing. That's where you can drive both. Your tactical and tactical abilities and a whole shit little of your endurance exactly specifically in the sport of boxing. Or whatever sport is you're doing. Athletes should train mostly the sport that they're playing in very similar ways to how they play it. Derevidives and combination drills and tactical drills and actual sparring. And on top of that, they can do a little bit of strength power training, a little bit of baseline endurance training. I wouldn't like mixing all those together, spending too much time ironically coming from me a meathead. Bodybuilder, too much time in the gym, not enough time in the boxing ring. And if you want to become better boxing, getting in that ring is much as possible to the extent your body can allow it. Is a really really good idea. So I don't know. Seven out of ten, do we still rate these things? F***er, fine now. I've been Dr. Mike. See you next time. Alright folks, if you enjoyed that video, you two think that you liked this video right over here. And if you're click on it, then I become incrementally more wealthy. And I invite more Lamborghinis and my butlers, the 78 butlers that I have now, they're happy you're too. Thank you.

His coaches needed to come up with a resistance training program that Jason could do and has a little time as possible. It's also packing enough punch to turn him into the sexiest fish translator out there. Oh my god. I'm straight. I'm straight. I'm straight. I'm straight. It's working. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pyrridsation. I am also a professor of exercises for science at Lehman College in the Bronx in the United States. And I'm going to review Jason Mamo as Hollywood diet and training program plan approach method madness. Mr. Jason Mamoa. Let's see how you died in train. I must do bitch. I must use squat. Nothing. I do not like lifting. I don't touch away unless they're paying me to do it. Damn, respect. So he doesn't like training, but he does have the manliest voice ever. And I've for years my therapist and I haven't telling me that I'm definitely straight. And I'm not in to guys. I'm not in to guys. Remember that? I have to say that a few times when I self-during the day. Jason Mamoa, I'm in love with you. Beautiful beyond words. Where can I meet you? And I mean M.E.A.T. Let's just get to the video. I don't enjoy lifting. I don't like going into a gym. Okay, so honestly, I respect the fucking people that are just straight up honest. It's cool to be like, hey, I really like lifting. But if I need to get a shape for a roll, your boy's honest doing that shit. There's all kinds of stuff I hate doing. Leaving the house for any reason whatsoever. She might teeth. Going to the doctor's office. Pain taxes. Yeah. I don't know what I do that. I do that anyway. That's what I'm trying to say. Don't skip on your taxes and don't skip on your way training if it's a part of your job. Yeah, that's just genetically Hawaiian. I hate it. Damn, it's cool to be genetically Hawaiian. Now notice something. The interviewer lady has said nice. And then she closed her eyes while smiling. What do you think she's imagining? Jason, if you're listening to me, forget all the things. All these interviewer, beautiful women. Look at this face. Yes, it's an ugly face. Miss Shape and you might even say, but it's a face that loves you. Gosh. Just like one of my DMs, bro. You don't even have to say anything. Ooh, I got even one better. I know you're a busy guy. Just left me on scene. I just want you to see by you, Jason. Ideally, in the nude. Honestly, let's skip. Let's get to review in this already. Enough. Enough. How many calories when you're Aquaman? What's your workout like, split look like? When you're Aquaman, not the character. The actual super-earsing hunt. I don't know. I think I eat fish. No, wait. It wouldn't eat fish. You can talk to them. You imagine that shit? Aquaman's trying to eat some like seafood place. And the fish is like, don't kill me, Aquaman. He's like, they're like sushi. He's like, uh, they're like, yeah, vegetarian. I guess the probably land animals in that field. Do you guys think the cows can talk to Aquaman? The fish is like, hey, Aquaman is like, hey, fish. He walks by. And the cows are like, hey, Aquaman. He's like, I got nothing. He eats the cow, instead of burger. Uh, I'm really bad at this. He has no idea. He has no f***ing clue what he does. That's the trainer's job. He's like, yeah, like, what's your split? What's your diet? What's your training? He's like, that's some other guy's paid to tell me what to do. I'm really good. I'm really good at just working hard and doing I need to do. So my trainers are generally like, they just, they make all that. They format everything. That's f***ing sweet. Again, I'm loving it. Honesty. Just tell me what you do. And I'm going to do it. I don't have to be in love with it. I don't have to endorse some bullshit. I don't believe in slash like Jason Mamoa. How is it going to say you're finally waiting to my heart, but you've been in my heart for some time. And other places in my body. That's very challenging for me to work out for vanity. It's very challenging for me to work out for vanity. You have all the f***er if I look like you had say some shit like that. Damn it. You were born Hawaiian. A dare I say perfect. I was born Ashkenaziju. Fill in the blanks. I had to work for this. Beautiful body. Now I can even hide in my muscles. He-he. But God damn, dude. Yeah, it's a shirt off for half the phone. Yeah, but I just, I'd rather like sit my, because I love climbing and surfing. So it's like climbing and surfing. Those are fun things. Yeah. Climbing and surfing, you're dare to say on, for the population level on average, are objectively more enjoyable than lifting weights. Can you imagine like, hey, climbing like you get to like, surround these obstacles and get this crazy view and it's a challenge and it's scary. You're like, okay, yeah, I love it. Like surfing, you're f***ing the man and up and down and using your balance, there's water and babes and bikinis. You're like, I love it. What else? You're lifting weights. They're like, okay, like, it's metal and it's heavy and boring as f***ing everyone's smells. It's the same week to week. But what do you get when PhD sports scientists collaborate with pro bodybuilders? The most effective muscle growth training I've ever made. Get yours now. Yeah, the opportunity for you can tell you how to train and make it a little bit more fun and more organized, but hard to compete against actual fun activities. I feel you. And look, almost all of us watching this video, we love training with weights, but just got a point like to speak in a regular people that's really... If I really need to get to climb a really hard route, I'll have to die and I'll have to train really hard so that I just try to wrap my head around like, what how it works for me. Oh cool, so he's kind of relating like if he gets into better shape, his climbing gets better, which is how he uses that to inspire and motivate himself a bit. That's dope, that's respect. And I really love beer, so it's... A lot of people like beer. Most of them don't look like Jason the Moan. I will not eat a carb all day long. I want to eat carbs and this is probably the healthiest thing. It's not the healthiest thing. Not eating a healthy carb all day, to save up for beer. Look, every now and again, it's totally fine. Daily? Yeah, you might have some issues. But you gotta remember, I'm like, I'm away from my wife, away from my kids. He has a wife and kids. What about you? Divorce happens? Kids grow up! I'm still here for you, Mr. Mammolat. I'll always be here for you. Hey, I'm eating no carbs. I'm on some crazy diet. Not exactly no carbs, I'm all the f***er. What do you think beer is made of? I have to work out in between Busting my ass and doing stunts. Yeah, stunting my ass and doing stunts. Guys, Jason Mowl is job as hard. He's an actor. I'm being a dick. I got to rass him a little. This is with the pickup artist community called Negging. You do a little bit of scot the video guys. No stranger that shit. You get at him other f***er in this case. In a f***ing other cases. Most cases. A little bit rass him a little bit and they get all defensive and you give them a little copper and they're like, yeah, it's a little push and pull and have a little push and pull for time done. I'm done and not going to get into the literal mechanics of intercourse. Right now. Hey guys, if you liked all that, there's more in the extended version. Not all of it is PG but that's where you got to sign up to be a member to see it. So give that a thought to fear. Missing weird stuff. So I was really depleted and we had water all the time and then the last 24 hours there was just like a couple ice cubes. So you're just trying to peek for one day, right? It's like a bodybuilding. That's cool. I'm really happy to know that they do this for Hollywood because like in those shirtless scenes in Aquaman, there's a huge premium frame looking as best. Luckily they have some folks in there that like will dry them out, carbon up and it'll temporarily make his muscles look really full. Temporarily make his skin look a little thinner. That's all really good stuff. I'm glad they're doing this. It definitely enhances the Hollywood effect. I tried so I was doing that whole thing and my body wasn't showing up and it wasn't happening and I go to my trailer at the time I go give me a Guinness. Like give me a Guinness. And so right before we did the underwater thing I cracked to Guinness pounded them. Can my body's like, that was your car. My whole thing, my whole body can see like my veins and like the whole. I don't want to offend anybody but Guinness is a f***ing disgusting beer. For people I don't like to ever talk about because I'm not a big fan of them, the Irish. I'm kidding Irish people. You guys always take a joke really well. Scott the video guy is dare I say mostly Irish and entirely a degenerate beer drinking. Just a stock. It's not a good guy. Guinness is awful. Scott you have anything to say for yourself with Guinness specifically? Inexcusable Guinness. Yes, a higher volume of fluid and carbohydrate and I will say the Paris empathetic inducing relaxate and nervous system response. All of having some alcohol can absolutely get your muscles nice and big and your blood vessels nice and fainy and give that last little peek. Not the best way to do a peek but it can definitely work especially if you like beer. I hate it this wouldn't work that well for me. But if you like beer then pick something better than Guinness. What's your favorite beer actually? Why don't you hit us up in the comments tell us your favorite beer and the winner will get alchohallism. Jason Mammola hates working out but you still able to get ripped for alchohman but using this unique workout hat. unique workout hack. Column me interested. Since Jason despises the gym, his coaches needed to come up with a resistance training program that Jason could do it as little time as possible. Cause he's so strapped for time. Waffle packing enough punch to turn him into the sexiest fish translator out there. Oh my god. I'm straight. I'm straight. I'm straight. It's working. So they had Jason use a celebrated result 7 which is a circuit based training program. What? We take 4 compound movements and perform 7 sets of 7 reps with 7 seconds rest in between each movement. Oh my god that's a lot of work. That's accelerator. Then what you complete with all the sets you take some rest and do the same. But the 6 is on everything and then again with 5 is on everything. This is a little f*** goofy but I guess it works. Oh my god I love that review. The guy himself said it's a little f*** goofy. Here's the thing. If you give people a lot of highly effective exercises, compound heavy basics, multi-joint multi-muscle movements to economize an effort. So like for example, if you do a close grip bench, you get a lot of triceps and chest stimulus in one exercise. So you don't have to be there for wide grip bench and push downs respectively. Have as the time of the work. You do slightly higher reps, you do very short rest breaks. And ideally you do antagonist muscle supersets. So for example some close grip bench, then some under and pullups, then some close grip bench with very short rest breaks. You can train a crap load of the body, get people amazing results in very short amount of time. Sometimes 30 minutes in the gym, three or four times a week and it's huge total body workout. The exact protocol here is wacky. Of course, 7 and 6, 5, whatever. That's f***ing totally arbitrary. I put my scientific integrity on that. But even though it's arbitrary, it's still well within the range of things that work. So this is actually a fairly good way to do things because remember, most of these how it folks. They train question mark question mark question mark and they eat also a series of and then for like 12 weeks before movie roll, they'll really lock down their eating and lock down their training 12 weeks. So this kind of training can transform a ton of physics. So I highly supported. Again, Mr. Memoa isn't exactly saying the right stuff. That's so close to the right. He gets a pass in my book. There's a lot of other stuff in my book about Jason Memoa. Mostly doodles on the margins of how I think is, um, genitals look. What? Did I say that? How loud? Ooh, Jason Memoa sample workout plan. First round seven since of seven reps. Seven seconds rest to be checked your size. The sevens are arbitrarized. Six, three, five. If you really want to go to the extremes the way Aquaman did, that not Jason Memoa the actor, Aquaman the actual hero, you can perform these routines up to three times a day. Don't do that. Don't do that folks. Once a day is good. See, if he hates working out with that f***ing he's doing it three times a day, Jesus Christ. We should also mention that Memoa reportedly did 100 pushups and 100 squats as a warm-up for his chest workout. Folks, if you follow our channel, and if you don't, welcome, please subscribe. You'll realize that 100 proper pushups is the f***ing chest workout in a half. So I can guarantee you his pushups sucked. I think Jason wants to hear this limb. And so I get like two and a half months of just doing like a fight choreography. That sounds fun. And then indoor climbing. Probably just climb a lot. Whoa, he jumped up onto the thing. He's so beautiful. And his hair's like sort of black, but sort of blonde. And he says, I don't know what it is man voice. Who cares what he's saying. My God, what the hell is this video about anyway? So like, your body is constantly working. Climbing is good. Climbing is good for fitness. It's not whole body, but it's close. Way by a thing, the pulling musculature. But having big shoulders, biceps, forearms, and a big back. So good start to an excellent male physique. You combine that with a bit of pushing work and some tri-subship. You got yourself a great physique for Hollywood. So climbing, uh, I can't hate on it. And then this is, some meat. He had a container of wrapped turkey in his gigantic homeless guy coat with a f*** going on. I said, ran out of my house and just, just me, my pocket. There are a number of jokes I could say now. So many of them in my head, I don't know which one to say first. I was just gonna go with the classic, hey Jason, I've got some meat in my pocket for you as well. But it's not turkey. Oh no. How does that meet my pockets? Oh my god. Oh Jason. Can you show us what your workout looks like? Well, I like to do. I sit here and I just try to move all these with my mind. Like that was standing up once. And then you were in order. And now I was over there and that was up there. And just like, this is the answer I would give in an interview like that. The men's health guys were like, yeah, that's funny. Ha ha ha ha. We have an article right in a video to make. Just start answering it for real. I really just seen your eyes. Not about the extent of it. He's drinking a beer. I f***ing love it. He, you know what, I'm not gonna talk shit. I was gonna say, he's taking men's health exactly as seriously, as they should be taken. But, uh, I love an respect for those all jokes. I work out nice. I love the guys response. DICE! KELOLAND BELSAMINERAL HUGE MY LIFE. I travel KELOLAND. KELOLAND SONGS BILD EXPLOSIVE POWER. You know what would be unfortunate if you spend a lot of time building not explosive power. What the f*** is that even? It's a redundancy. Explosion or power the same thing. In sport training. But men's health is so authoritative. And there's such a not really little bands. So, let's do bandwork. KELOLAND BELSAMBANS. The two least effective tools in the gym. KELOLAND BELSER OK. Dumbbells are generally more versatile. Bands don't reload the stretched part of the muscle, which is the one that grows you more. So bands are generally inferior to training with cables, machines, or weights. K, stupid, bare-crawl bullshit with dumbbells is a f***ing waste of time. It's a way to spend energy. I don't know what it does. When it's very unclear what muscle is being trained, and your outcome is physique, because that's the only thing that they care for actors, is how they look. It's probably not a good sign. So if you have to look at something for a little while and try to figure out what they're trying to train, not good news. Sort of back. This dumbbells are preposterously light for his back. He can't even get a big stretch because he's in a half-plush-up position. It tires out as thresholds and triceps. But the contraction for them is largely asymmetric. So not very stint a little bit of growth. F***ery. File under F***ery. First of all, that's a techno-jim machine. Techno-jim is f***ing total trash. Second of all, he really could benefit from a slower control on the way down. From a deep, painful stretch that hang, and from coming up as high as he can, all the way up to chest level. It'd be better for his climbing, better for his physique. But it's more challenging. Most of us can only do a few pull-ups like that. Those are real, real pull-ups, and they have real good dividends that they pay. Wow, he transitioned from pull-ups right into rear-doubt flies. Odd pairing. I can't tell if this is sped up. I don't even know what that's training. Triceps, ish. Let's do some underhand pull-ups. Again, not going all the way down. Not even close. I would say this is a major downside at this point. This is him like in the early phase of trying to get in shape, because he's looking a little rotund. This is my official day and model of the guy. From six feet. It's the best on his position. So when you try to flex in his position. Oh, this is official. First hard workout after six weeks, post-turning surgery. Okay, I was being a dick. He looks great. Post-turning surgery. Then he gets he looks great all the time in my eyes. Depending on the type of harney you have in the type of surgery they have, you can return to working out very hard as it is little as three to four weeks. You can return to working out easy and as little as two, especially if you have it like an umbilical hernia. It's mild and they have a mesh repair. A lot of times if it's lapar scoppy only. It's really quite easy for you to come back with just a few weeks or start coming back in a few weeks. For most hernious surgeries, six weeks later, you realistically, there's nothing you're going to do to the incision side or anything. Modern surgical techniques are really, really impressive. So I think he's totally good to train like that. You know, maybe something to ease into for a few more weeks after is like really heavy intramum tumble pressure. Type exercises really heavy squats, really heavy deadlift, really heavy leg press and act squat, where you can re-thin and generate ton of intramum pressure. He was doing essentially all pulling movements which you can do with zero intramum tumble pressure just as effectively. So I think he's totally cool on that regard. For coming back from hernious surgery, I give that work out of 10 or 10 for everything else in which we wait, rate workouts on this channel as the health factor of the offer of hypertrophy and how scientifically based they are. I would give Jason the Moll is an entire approach, a six out of 10. Because you know, it's in the right spirit of things just not all the right ingredients. But for his carefree attitude about training and diet, I give him a 10 out of 10 and for his manliness and sectioness and infinity out of zero, think about it. It's all Jason, my whole world. Mr. Jason Moll, the Sinole I'm nobody, but if you could find it in your heart to think of me at least once, I'll think of you at least all the time. See you guys next time.

Oh my god he's still at it. Okay, set of 9 reps, 350, and this is another work set here. Alright, inclined dumbbell press. Unbelievable. Onto flies. This isn't saying. This is how you know you train Chastplot so weak. You're gonna need a week to recover. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for the RP Strength channel. I am a former professor. Exercise and sports science. I was kicked out of the academy. For honestly, they were teaching us to do lightsaber stuff and I just played around too much. Cut some kids finger off. They said you can't come back here anymore. Pretty me up about it. I went got me a Gigi to black belt. And I started competing in bodybuilding, though it's not as cool as the Jedi Academy with which I was formally involved. I think it's pretty neat, but you know what's neater. Getting one of the best chests of all time and then using it to win the Mr. Olympia contest. And if you were a J-Cutler, you did exactly that. Good news, the Discovery Channel and National Geographic paired together drained all of their accounts to create a time machine to throw one videographer back with a camera to film this workouts and the miracles of modern AI and time travel. We now have J-Cutlers Olympia winning chess workout. We're gonna work through it together. We're gonna get nitty gritty. We're gonna talk that shit. And then after that, we're gonna talk more shit, talk shit all the time and tell people realize I only know things about exercise science and nobody else does. The very least I'll make a lot of mistakes. Ready, three, two, one. Giant chest. Okay, so he is doing in-clined barbell bench presses. And J-Cutler at this point muscle size wise and neural preparedness is almost certainly good for multiple sets of five to 10 reps, maybe even more, with four plates on a side. And he's doing one plate on a side, which means this is definitely a warm-up. And he's doing a lot of reps because here's the thing, this is pre-contest for regular folks. Just getting an in-training or for pretty advanced folks that are way in 180 pounds, 200 pounds, et cetera, warm up until you feel ready. And I'll give you a little insider tip, little pro tip. A little bit more warming up, almost always beats a little bit less because safety beats effect. Why? Because safety means you won't get hurt, which means you'll have more effect by having more sessions in succession. Can you grow better from five amazing sessions or eight pretty good sessions? The answer is eight pretty good sessions, but you might knock three sessions off every eight because you're hurt. So this is some insurance policy shift. Let's take a look at these reps. Notice that control close to the chest, even a little pause every now and again, excellent. Okay, so I believe that was Jay's wife at the time. Her name was Carrie, if I read the muscle magazines appropriately. And this is definitely in gold gym loss Vegas, which no longer exists, I don't think. Gold gym's a hair indicator. They call this place the pit. All this equipment work the best. I think they straight up made equipment better in like the 80s than they did a more modern time. So I will say things are very, very much improving. We had it last week, got prime, we got free motion, tons of great companies. And I'll say if you ever go to Las Vegas, don't bother looking for this gym, it doesn't exist anymore. But there are so many unbelievable gyms in Vegas. Now Scott, there's gotta be at least like five gyms. There's just like hornets, nests of pros and them. Yeah, so Vegas is the place to be. And if you have a haircut like Jay Cutler, anywhere is the place to be. Excellent technique. I mean, yeah, that's nowhere close to failure. It looks like, but, 315 for 8, even for Jay Cutler is at least gonna do some maintenance stuff and maybe a little bit of growth. We've got a huge. Okay, set of 9 reps, 315, this is be another work set here. This is a work set. You don't grunt and groan and the bar doesn't slow down for no reason. Jay Cutler's close to failure now. Excellent technique, excellent bar path, full range of motion. You notice his shoulder blades are back. His back is arch just chest is up fully exposing his chest to a deep stretch. And the pause is extra insurance against injury. Bouncing out of the bottom of a big heavy press like that when you're so close to a show is probably gonna be fine but possibly gonna be a real big deal for injury. And so him pausing it reduces those forces at the bottom. It still gets you a lot of tension and time under tension at the bottom, which is really a pretty cool thing. But the peak forces decline, which is probably for the best in this case. That was close to failure. We're up to two worksets now, very good. Scott, you wanna track the worksets here? Excellent. Oh, big man. First of all, this screenshot here looks ridiculous. Scott, do your arms ever look like that when you're benching? I'm sure no. Just like that. Yeah, my legs don't look like that. This is really impressive. This is motivational type of shit. Four repetitions. Let's see these reps that I'll talk to you. Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Hard set. Pride. Two reps and reserve. Very effective when it's four reps because everything in one of those is hyper-trophic. That total tension load on the bars really, really high. On the one hand, this is risky for sure. Because this is lots of weight. On the other hand, a lot of the top pro bodybuilders are very fast-twitch dominant. Larger fractions of their total number of muscle fibers, their muscle cells, are on that faster twitch spectrum of muscle fiber activity, which means they probably benefit from heavier training versus higher rep training a little bit more than the average person. And some high-level bodybuilders report that if in their pre-contest phase, they never get a chance to lift pretty goddamn heavy weights at least a little bit. They lose fullness in size in their muscles. And that is a legit thing that so many people say and it makes some physiological rationale that we have to consider it as a serious hypothesis. And if we put the fact that this is not actually as dangerous because he's quite fatigued for it, it acutely fatigued. And very warmed up and might need that swag feel of heavy weights like a lot of top pros do to make their muscles as full as possible. Then all of a sudden, this doesn't sound crazy. The only great thing about Jay Cutler is that his technique is basically immaculate the entire time. If someone was half-wrap-yoloing this, this would be like really, really not a good idea. This is great technique. So I think all in all the considerations we can take, this is not a complete leans aim practice that is quite sensible. I also say that if your shirt is sufficiently lemon-yellow, you can get away with a lot. Notice Jay is tired as fuck. His technique is undifferentiable. It's the same flawless technique, rep, to rep, to rep, set, to set, to set. This is a professional athlete, folks. Take notes. Now, by taking notes, I mean, just throw away your note pad and your excel sheets. The RP-high-perchrophy app has all of your workouts displayed in one place with guided videos on exercise techniques and a program that evolves to better suit your needs the longer you use the app. All you have to do is follow the plan right on your phone and get the games. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. Awesome. All right. So Scott, we're going to count 315, 315, 405, and 225 at the end of the work sets. Four work sets. But let's do a math thing because the first 315 was like, math, let's say it's 3 works sets. 3 works at equivalents. We're rolling. All right. In Klein-Dumbel Press, notice something gorgeous about what Jay is doing here. He is touching the very outside of his pecks. He's not wrapping halfway. He's going all the way out to the outside, which means bigger stretch, which means more growth. Excellent technique. Here is Chester's Archstop, the Bench angle, compensates, his shoulders are back. And honestly, the best part of his technique is at least one of his nipples are out at all times, which I encourage every gym member to try at least once. If you're female, never met a female in real life, but I think it works. Scott, is it the same kind of in a different advice? Then? I mean, nipples out always. Nipples out 24-7, we out here, baby. Folks, there is still more video to come. However, have a member section where you get a longer extended version of this video, tons of nerdy, deep dives, tons of my own training to follow along regularly. Jared Feathers training the whole things in there. Give it a click. Members areas awesome. Otherwise, back to the video. Okay, reps. Attach work, set Scott. Can we get another set here? Oh yeah, that pause. Scott, look at his arms. Hey, and then one more, then this is Big Dumbell's high. Looks like he kept going up through all these sets of saffron, but I couldn't find exact number, but I think they kept trying to count the ring. Big Dumbell, getting heavier. Interesting. Very interesting. Going up. Okay, well, these are all fairly close to failure. And as a matter of fact, his spotter is actually giving some assistance there. So you can technically say, like, these are very close to failure, because he's almost doing force reps, very, very cool. Oh yeah, I forgot from back in the day. Chick-Cultle was on a podcast and he said he never went to failure, essentially a single time in his training. He never trained on purpose to failure. And that hurt a lot of people's feelings because I think a lot of people have spirit animals like Mike Menser, Ronnie Coleman, and Doring Yates that they talk about like failure training makes you a man, and you're a pussy if you don't do it. And these guys are huge, so clearly works the best. And it turns out that stopping a few reps shy failure works just as well as failure training. With a couple of pluses, a couple minuses are kind of evens out. So, you know, Jay-Cultle is not very inspirational on the go-in-a-f failure part. He's insanely inspirational, getting jacked part. So if you're looking for him to go to failure here on anything, it's likely it won't happen. Simply because he was never trying to do that. He was trying to cook the muscle a good bit but not go all the way to the end. So Scott, how many worksets are we at total? So six total worksets. Hard hard sense. All right. Now we're on pecdeck or machine flies. Yeah, machine flies. Very good. Let's see this. Super huge range of motion. Okay, that's definitely a warm-up, not a workset. That's a workset for sure. Yep, he's getting into some pain. I'll call that a workset, maybe half a workset Scott. Yeah, it was tough because they didn't really do a good job in showing his weight in between. Yes. So like sometimes they did a few things to see here but it was tough to do a good job. Yes. Do that stack makes me into stalgicus. I've had some of the best training in the world on stacks like that with some of the numbers missing in shit. I love it. Whoa. Onto flies. This isn't saying. This is how you know you train chest once a week. You're going to need a week to recover from this. Pack flies, phenomenal. Total control, even a little pause at the bottom. Ultra deep stretch. Man, that look like a workset to me. But let's not count it just in case. This is definitely workset. So one workset here. It makes improvements to my chest. The 2003 season. Is it just me or does Jay Cutler sound like John F. Kennedy? Ask not what your pecs can do with a society. But what society can do with all your pectoralist major muscles. And then Scott, you know we did it after? Maryland and Rome. I'm Maine. In the White House office. Oh, really? Hollywood's got so much pressure and he's like, yeah, saying our scam. Scram, saying, did I mess up some decades? Yes. But why did I bring up this such an awkward time to bring up the situation with Maryland? I'll tell you guys why. When I see Maryland and Rome, a picture of Maryland and Rome. I see timeless beauty. And timeless beauty reminds me of love. And love reminds me of a connection so strong that it is almost impossible to break. Which reminds me of Versa grips, which you can tie around the bar for lateral raises for upright rows for rows for stiff leg and that lift and your grip will not fail so your shoulders and your back and your hamstrings can get the best workout so they have ever received. Is it a good idea to nickname your Versa grips when you get them as one as a Maryland and the other when as a Monroe? Maybe. I'm not going to tell you what's right or wrong. But should you also consider when you have a girlfriend or for the six and a half women that follow as channel boyfriend or a lesi friend? Should you use your Versa grips when you're hugging them to stay closely connected to their body? You know because you need to, Scott, you know I'm off. There's a little hug a bit, they love and they're like I'm never going to let you go. You know, say she liked that but if I was a girl I'll be like oh yeah my girlfriend but why aren't you using Versa grips if you really serious about the shit? Fair, how do you answer that one? First of all grips we have a link in the description, go buy them they're amazing and holding the one you love. A close second to Versa grips. You know, even more the pressing movements stuck to a lot of stretching movements such as flies, that cable crossover so I was doing more fly kind of movements in my routine than I do pressing. Lies are great especially for isolated the chest. I will try both and have it even mix in most programs. Works that at another one Scott. Oh my god he's still at it. Now okay this exercise we can call a fly but it's really an exercise called the fly press. We do have it in our RP high-perature fiat with demo. It's when you come down and it's mostly a fly in the descent but at the bottom of the descent you come in a little closer to give yourself a leverage advantage. This is crazy eccentric stretch and then you're able to half press the dumbbells up at a smaller angle which allows you to complete the movement. This is maximizing a stretch adding in heavier weight and a little bit of a press. It's a nuanced technical movement but it's really really good fun if you get into it. Definitely another one. Three Scott. Scott he's still working out. Okay dokey. How many sets are we at currently worksets? 11 worksets. 11 worksets. Okay doke let's see how many more we got. Okay doke. That's it huh? That's all there is. All right. Jay you could have done a few more sets. We're going to be playing that tune with the app. We'll call it one. Okay so adding that up that's 14. 14. What I say eight to 15? Yahoo. If we argue that some of the sets I counted weren't close enough to failure for us internet judges then I'd say the worst case scenario it's eight and if we count some of them as like well really you said half a set but really it's one. Now we're up closer to like 17 18. Somewhere in that 10 to 15 range if you train a muscle once a week is a really awesome amount of sets to do hard working sets and so from Jay Cutler's workout we can take a few really good hints. One is technique is such a goaded thing. Control full range of motion big stretch amazing. Another thing is that volume is king. The end of the day every single study so far done maybe about one. We're talking dozens of studies all lead to the same conclusion. The more sets per week you do close to failure the more you grow as long as you can recover. The upper limit of that still has yet to be determined. There is currently maybe one study that has never been replicated that has seen a decline in hypertrophy at a certain level of volume that was too much. Every other study damn near other than that including studies that worked up to 52 sets per week. Scott they were trying to figure out a number of studies and they just like someone through deck of cards on the table. Oh, holy shit. Those people still grew better than people that did 40 at Ish sets. So we're talking about volume is a big deal of hypertrophy especially if you're already pretty jacked and you want to go to that next level. You have to do it for full body because you probably die trying but any muscle especially that's giving you problems that isn't growing as much as you think it should be more volume increase a few sets here and there every week every week every week until you get to crazy high amount, de-load, start back low and repeat that is how you get good growth and also I'll say this really good warming up to make sure you don't get hurt folks. Jay Colour is the man. He's golden. He's also really really cool human being in real life. He's all around Blossomagus so if you see someone in Las Vegas that looks like Jay Cutler, he's probably Jay Cutler and you can probably talk to him and say very nice things. Scott we got anything else to talk about before we sign off. That's it folks. All right I hope we learned some shit and remember. We rate Jay Colour's chest workout as an 8.5 out of 10. Everything north of 8.5 is a personality stickler bullshit. Everything south of 8.5 is like legitimate critiques and so this workout's great. Great doesn't mean the best it could be. Great doesn't mean you should be copying it. But great means take it everything into consideration and works really well. And that's what I hope will happen to my penis soon. All right that was fun guys if you are desperate and if nothing else to do the fun will continue in this thumbnail right here click on it and maybe your life will be marginally better than otherwise. See you next time.

And I'm Jesse James looks good. Wow. And she's look at that f***in' armdude. Somebody drug test Jesse James West. Hey Greg, you set. Aaaaaaahhh. Okay, thanks Greg. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pyrridsation. I'm the co-creator of the RPI-PIRTRIV app. And a professor of exercise and sports science at Lehman College in the Bronx in New York City. In New York State, in the United States in North America, in the Western Hemisphere, on planet Earth, in the solar system, in the Orion arm of the Milky Way galaxy. And I forget what cluster of galaxies were in, but no doubt I'll get to that in the next video. Alright, we are here to review the training sensation that is Mr. Jesse James West. And there are only two types of people that are allowed to have three names. serial killers. Hmm. Or, outlaws in the West, like Jesse James West, which is, it's got to be guys in Jesse James, like an old outlaw. Except this Jesse James doesn't really shoot guns. He just shoots workouts and handsomeness. Did I say that out loud? Let's say more crazy things out loud. Hit it. This is Hony Ramot 22-time Olympia Winning Coach. No for coaching athletes such as Seabum, J. Color, Billy and so many more legends. He touches the guys a lot, which I'm a big fan of. Today, he'll be putting me through his FST 7 workout. Let's go. I will say Jesse James has an unbelievable amount of presence energy. Honey's like Jesus Christ, man. He's like, ah, I love it. Someone showed up to work. What are you normally doing? So I'm normally doing a press, two side raises, and like two rear, someone's something like that. Okay. Okay, so we're training shoulders, cool. Trying to focus my side del is definitely my most weak. Side del's most weak. Most people, when they want the aesthetics of bigger shoulders, they're looking for bigger side del's. They are rear del's are quite easy to train just with full range of motion pulling movements that you train for your back. But your front del's almost entirely handled by pushing, work for like chest shoulders, tri-steps, really side del's I maintain, or maybe 80% or even 100% of what you should be training when you're training for del's. We'll see this, what this workout has in store. The techniques generally very good. I would love to see Jesse go considerably lower, touching the inside of the dumbbell to the outside of a shoulder at the bottom and holding for one second, that deep painful stretch has been shown scientifically, to result in more muscle growth. So that would be really, really cool. Other than that, it looks like quite a good shoulder press. Yeah. Slow down a little bit. So honey said something very important, slow down a little bit. It's good to slow down that eccentric. The descent under control that causes a lot more muscle growth stimulus. And because you have to slow it down, you can't use weights that are as heavy. You gotta go lighter. It's even safer that way. Good job. So what we want to do now, catch your breath. Okay. If you notice you're speaking really, really quickly, your heart rates really high. He said, if you notice you're speaking really, really quickly, I think Jesse James is just excited to be around Mr. Honey Ramon, makes sense that I've turned almost everyone he's ever met prone. And then also get a sip of water. This is really good stuff. You want to really break between sets because you want maximum energy you put into high quality ultra-effective set. You don't want to go too fast in the gym. If you're doing it for regular workout, just normal fitness cool, but if you want to build some muscle, which is what Honey Ramon specializes in, then you're definitely going to want to take some breaks between sets. Get your breathing back to normal. Feel strong again and then go. Allow yourself to walk around a little bit for a few seconds. Get your heart rate down. I'm just so excited, man. But got to remain chill. Now let's go ahead and do a standing lateral raise. Show me what you normally do. Just let me see your form. Okay. What's really good? That's actually it's quite good. That's a slightly different variation. But the nice thing about it is you're not resting here. That's one thing you do not want to do. You don't want to rest here. And he's doing a great job not doing that. Okay. You can totally rest at the bottom. If you rest at the bottom, that rest by using more repetitions. If you don't rest at the bottom, you can do fewer repetitions but you accomplish roughly the same amount of muscle growth stimulus. So, not resting versus resting is really just personal preference. You can even combine them. You can do as many reps as you can. Not resting, then come down rest for a second and then do a few more reps. So, not really any dog may hear resting at the bottom is totally fine. I'm all about keeping the tension on the muscle. But the tension is what you sum up over the multiple reps. If you put in tension, rest, put in tension, rest. Your muscles count the tension that you put in all to the scene piggy banks. You don't have to keep the constant tension all on at the same time. You can pulse it in and that's totally fine. Keep going. Awesome. One more, one more, one more. I'm not entirely sure what the purpose is of touching someone while they're training. Unless you're bringing attention to various cues. Like if you touch their side out while they're training it, I'm inclined to believe there may be some additional mind muscle connection benefit. I'll be at radically small. This sort of gripping around the waist, Titanic bullshit they got going on over here. It's hot and all and I'm all here for it. But it might not be very, very effective. Maybe he's trying to help them out a little bit. But then again, like your reps are your reps man and over a really connect with your body. You've got to do this shit yourself. I'm a pretty firm believer of that. I'm just, I guess, not sold on the benefits of touching someone without a compelling reason during the workout. Although if it's Jesse James West that's working out with me, I'm touching him as much as I possibly can. Also with my hands. Hey guys, if you want more, uncut raw, unedited, too hot to share on YouTube version of this, then consider joining our membership for this channel and you get all this crazy stuff plus a lot more educational content every single week. See you there. Can you see me do the flex sets, right? Yes. So what we're doing is we're creating more time under tension by being able to flex in between sets. Now going to a most muscular crab. Like that, wider, wider, get your lats out. There you go and squeeze and get your hands a little closer to your body. There you go. Keep that tension on there. We're going to hold that for another 10 seconds. So that definitely puts some tension on the side delts. The problem is the C-sflecting is biceps. Triceps, forearms, chest, back, abs, everything. That's a lot of fatigue for something that is doing what exactly to the delts. So by flexing like that, your whole body, before you do another set, you're reducing how strong you're going to be for that set. You're reducing how many reps you're going to be able to get. And the reps you get for that next set, they're very specifically hypertrophic muscle growth promoting to the side delts themselves. So you're kind of doing a little bit of whole body stuff. Also asymmetrically, isometric contractions don't cause reliably as much muscle growth as likely a centric contractions do or concentric the ones that you're moving actual weight. So I would say this is like okay thing to do, but probably makes you a little bit too tired than optimal for your next sets without as much of a trade-off as you'd like to see in the beneficial direction. 9, 8, 7, 5, 4, good job. Oh, woo! It's getting straight. It's straight catcher breath. Jesse James is very impressive looking shoulders. Hmm. That was the craziest thing I've ever done. Jesse, it's almost certainly not the craziest thing you've ever done. I've seen your other videos. You've talked around them girls and picked them up out of the street. And I pick up, I don't mean physically left. I mean emotionally left. And that to me is a lot crazier than flexing in a gym. Call me crazy. They're FST 7, Flexets. Okay, FST 7, Flexets. Right. First time ever doing it. What exactly is FST 7 training? That created this FST 7 training style, which increases the intensity with or without me there. Obviously it's going to be a little more intense because I'm actually here, but it's going to help with more of that three-dimensional look. More of the three-dimensional look. Huh. I thought that was just growing muscles, but what do I know? I'm just a professor of exercise and sports science. Because we're doing hypervolume training with high intensity training. That's what FST 7 is. Every kind of training has a volume and intensity. I don't know if it's completely accurate to say there is such a thing as volume training or such a thing as intensity training. But you can have training that is of a lower volume, but higher relative effort, further beyond failure or two failure. And you can have training that has more volume, more number of sets, but each set is significantly sub-naximal, such that you're stopping three or four up-shy failure. So that effect you could have a more volume biased or relative effort, which is the technical term for intensity, bias training. That all being said, the right answer is to give the liftor for that session, the correct issue, number of sets to do with a correct relative effort and then every workout needs to get a little bit harder. Maybe the relative effort climbs every single week. Maybe the number of sets stays roughly the same or even increases if that person is recovering. So a 7 is kind of an arbitrary number to give someone. I would like someone to start with FSD 4 and then work their way up over a period of two months to FSD 8. That would be I think really, really good. But generally that FSD 7 system isn't awful, it has a lot of work and if you are using good technique and recovering appropriately, it can definitely work to help you put on muscles. So you're going to keep your chest up in here or working on your right hand for focusing right in the front. Again, I'm not entirely sure what the point is of touching someone. Maybe I'm just weird about that. This is a front raise, it's decent. Unfortunately, it's a front raise that bias is the shortened position of the dealt, which is not the most muscle growth promoting. If you actually turned around completely in that bench and this is a totally fine variant, but if you're looking for a way to enhance this at home, turn around in the bench and then do the same exercise, but start with your arms way below you and behind you, the big stretch on the front dealt is really what grows. Just come up until you're parallel to the ground and come back down. You'll almost certainly rep for up the at least mildly superior to this version. Again, this is a totally fine version, just another idea for you guys to try it home. Oh my god. Good. So I don't think you normally do those. Oh, I, as the first one I've literally ever done those. Okay, I don't think you do front raises at all. I don't think you can raise it. Okay, so you need to start doing it. You need to start doing it. I would say the front raise done properly. If you take your pinkies and turn them to the sky and you do a front raise like that, it can actually significantly recruit your side dealt switches good. That raises with your thumbs up are almost exclusive to front dealt. Ever seen anyone's physique be limited by their front dealt. Everyone who trains their chest, show end and triceps in any capacity that's challenging also has to train their front dealt. Every pushing movement trains front dealt. And I would say front dealt basically get trained enough so that front raises unless you're doing them for side dealt and they're front a little bit out to the side with the pinkies up. Those are cool. Every other kind of front raise is probably you could use your time better training your side dealt more. You heard the man don't be skipping the front dealt. Okay. Skip the front dealt. Everyone was lying to you. Not everyone. All right guys, so what we're going to do is we're going to do bent over a ladder raises. We're going to do pinkies up so we can be able to create a better focus on the rear dealt. So the two major techniques, once with palms down, once with pinkies up, we're going to do them both ways so you can be able to see the differences because they're just slightly different nuance to that exercise. Ooh, curious. That definitely is an effective exercise. The pinkies up means that your fibers turn into the direction of the movement and it's great stimulus for your dealt. So very good. It also hit a lot of traps and upper back, which is totally fine. Again, I'm not a big fan of rear dealt training because I think if you're doing four engine motion pull ups, pull downs, rows of all kinds, your rear dealt are going to be very, very, very sufficiently trained and then side dealt are probably the ROI best thing to train after that. Good job. You chest up, can you chest up? Good. Squeeze those shoulders a bit. There you go. Ah, we're still doing the squeezing thing. I was like, chest up for what? The set is over. Hmm. What do you get when PhD sports scientists collaborate with pro bodybuilders? The most effective muscle growth training app ever made. Get yours now. Slow, give me five seconds. Let's go to the way down. Five, four, three, two, good job. Slowies are on tricks to great. I'd like to see him push his chest up a little bit more and to finish the rep behind his body to stretch that bicep at the bottom a little bit better. But this is very good. And she's looking at that f***ing arm, dude. Nobody drug test Jesse James West. Hey, Greg, you said. Mike, what's going on? Can you do a video of Jesse James West's on drugs or not? Okay, thanks, Greg. So we're doing some biceps now on this one. We're basically doing a hammer using the rope. I always call that the double dildo curl. Yeah, buddy. Yeah, buddy. Shall I start the running column impressions now or later? We'll see if we're for later. Yeah, buddy. Let's take a bite. Let's take a bite. Wow, here we go. This is eight-time Mr. Olympia, Ronnie Colby. Oh my god, he wore the same pants. Jesse James has a lot of energy. If I was Ronnie, I'd be like, uh, what the hell you doing? When am I pants? That's not cool at all. Mother f*** you, my f***ing me, is that? Right way, right way, baby. Oh, it's real light, Ron. Here you go. What's the saying? Not doing what to do it. None to it, but to do it. Ain't none but a peanut. Woo! I can do it all folks, all day long. Oh, I'm just trying to stay away from my arm just going to shut the f*** up. All right. Not to do it, but to do it. Yeah, buddy. Hey, 225. So Jesse James, his technique on the bench rest was quite good. I would like to see him control the central a little bit more as Russian, or the eccentric, but otherwise very good for any emotion. I will categorically never criticize Randy Coleman's technique because they're men, and then they're gods. That's all I'll say about that. Get it, I'm going, whoop the man? I'm a wopioa-ass if you don't do this for at least 57,000 rips. Good technique. Again, a little too quick on the way down, too quick of a reversal at the bottom. And for some reason, people leave like that half inch or an inch at the top, that inch, that bottom inch. Let me tell you, is the most growth promoting part of the movement. I would say slow and control pause, and then a send. But definitely like this is like an A lift technique. Why is I'd love to see an A plus? Don't knock a lie, this is this is the workout's very intense right now. Uh-oh, not ideal for five days out. And it feels really good to train. I love training when you run. Yeah, buddy. He literally just gave a yeah buddy while on his phone. Oh, hold it, hold it, hold it. Uh-oh, yeah, yeah, buddy. And that's right. I damn white motherf***er my dream, but the hell going on out here? And I get a new counsel for that impression. Maybe it's all love Mr. Ronnie. Back in the day. I like how Jason here was like, yeah, he didn't know what the f***ing I am, what's going on. Would you focus more on barbell or dumbbell? Oh. He's like, yeah, can you get the f*** out of my face for a second? I'm goddamn, who the f*** are you? He's like, oh, we're filming an interview. Oh yeah, that's right. Both, what a f***ing sweet answer. Both. One day was all barbell and one day was all dumbbells. I never used cables or machines. I'm going to hell. Damn, Jesse James looks good. Wow. I guess he's five days out of a show or something? Yeah, natural, natural body. Oh, natural bodybuilding show. You impressive. Man's physique and bodybuilding. Wow. Thanks Scott the video guy. You f***ing stalker. Anime characters are known for wearing weighted clothes to gain superhuman strength. And today I'm joined by Lean Beat Patty. Oh my god, an old friend of the channel, I guess, though she, like most of her fans, doesn't know that we exist. Hello, darkness, smile friend. To see what it's like to wear them for the next 24 hours. Oh f***ing bad. First competition, we got the rope climb. Let's see who's stronger. Oh, good god. Houston, we have a major problem. No, I can't get up. Yo, rope climbing looks like it. I could do this. It's f***ing hard. And there's just weird technique you have to do with your legs and also other bullshit. That. I would get negative two reps on that f***ing rope. There we go. Cross your legs. I need help. Good job. I like how Jesse James figured it out and then he was like, wait a minute. Okay, I figured it out, but it's still too hard. No, no. You're up there. You got to do it yourself. This is one of the hardest things I've really ever done. Meet me in real life, Jesse James, and I'll put you through a hard thing you've never done, but it'll be done with you. I just do you. Oh, wow. Oh my god. He did it. Folks, anytime you train with a girl, especially a fit girl, your number one priority should be to embarrass her. I'm better at this than you are. Meal. And when she realizes she is physically inferior, she's going to develop an emotion called infatuation with you. That's how pickup works. Short lesson. You're welcome. We're going to see who could do 100 situps, the fastest. Go. That I would quit it like three. I'm just kidding. I can't do three situps. One. Oh, shit. Lean beef, patty's all on this motherfucker. This is way more difficult than I thought it was going to be. I underestimated this. Dude, 100 actual situps is f***ing tough. Which means it's not. People to say, are you 100 situps every five hours? Shut the f*** up. No, you don't eat those little bullshit pulse crunches. You f***ing liar. You're not even struggling. I'm going to be sweating. Ambed it. Lean beef patty's just showing off at this point. Don't hold a rocky ball, but who action? Too easy, easy day for lean beef. No, it's fine. I'll just take the L. Max pull ups in 60 seconds. This is going to be really hard. I know this is just all for fun folks, but with that in mind, I'm going to judge the living f*** out of their pull up technique. Go patty, go one, three, wow. I'm bored. That's a strong woman. The technique's all f***ed. As expected. F***ing tallity. Take your time. Take your time. Seven. Ooh, that was okay. The 70 counted when she just started lifting up. I don't think she got anywhere. I don't know how you count up a pull up at the beginning of a wrap. Very well. Okay, come on patty, eat. Go go, go. Up, patty. Nice. That's all we have. Patty going for it. Her celebration really put me down right now. Yeah, a lot of fine kids have him fighting. Alright. I wanted this. I asked for this. My body weight. Plus this on the bar. Yes. And that's like actually like 100 pounds. Pretty much. Yeah. And we're going to see who we need the most. If he are, it is not easy. And I am actually terrified of getting hurt. Well, why is it so heavy? There you go. How's it going? It a long time. Alright. So lean beef patty. Plus a hundred pounds. weighs a hundred and thirty two pounds. More of a silver one. Oh, we're just warming up. I'm being a dick early. Ooh. I'm not going to lie. Way harder. But. Wow. Six. You feel like a little uneven. Why are you trying to get my head patty? I think herdsmiths. Seven. Wow. Oh my gosh. Eight. Does it be terrible? Do you guys also hate it when the video guys don't give you an angle or time frame in which to judge squat depth and technique? Looking at it from the front. Kind of skipping the bottom part a little bit with the camera. I just can't tell if these are good high quality reps. I want a judge damn it. But I can't. I need raw material for judging. That did not look sufficiently deep. I would count that as zero. Is that still a warm up? Come on. Ready? Up. That is a half squat. I'm a coxucker. I know. All right. So. Jesse James. On the lifting. Uh. 8.5 out of 10. Generally very good range of motion. Very good control. I'd left to see a little bit of a slow down on the eccentric and a little bit of a pause at the bottom for stuff. Um, we'll talk about the squat and pull up stuff that was all just for laws. And on the personality and just lean and invigorated young man, a 15 out of 14.5. Am I a fit for answer yet? See you guys next time.

You're gonna see how many push-ups you could do on one minute, how many do you think you could do on one minute? Zero. I'm gonna do 265 push-ups. You're a lot? I'm bold. Bold claim, Mr. Kevin Harg. Lots of find out what a push-up means. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. I am the creator of the RP-I-Purter-Fee app, which there's a link to in the description if you want to buy stuff. Get me richer. And I'm also an exercise and sports-hides professor at Lehman College in the Bronx, in New York City, in the United States, in the world. And it's a world which happens to be co-occupied by Mr. Kevin Hart, comedian, actor, and person who lifts. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. I didn't know I could do that for that long. Let's find out if his lifting is either amazing, good, okay, terrible, or the worst thing that's ever happened. Lots go. But it's not about me today, it's about you. But it's giving you some tips, things to do at home. That's some nice. I hope the tips work out. So the first move we're going to go through, is the man-makers, right? Man-makers, man-makers. The man-maker is technically extensive transgender surgery in our model treatment. Boy, are we stocked off heavy today? Just being tactical. Scott, watch. Saying his name and being. You're down in a stance, right? And you're here. You're going to go push up. Oh, God, this shit again. Folks, if you try to maximize your ability to have a bigger, more muscular bicep form, back of your dealt, and your entire back, rolling out of a weird three-quarter push-up position is not the bees' knees. It also prevents you from getting a really good stretch at the bottom. I would much rather see this done. That dumbbell row style where you bend over, and getting it to hips, and then row, just do your push-ups. And when you get really tired and stop, take 20 or 30 seconds, work it out, grab the dumbbells, hinge, and then do some rows, and you get all the benefits. You don't have to combine a bunch of exercises into one. I found I was always trying to get one exercise that does it all. That's like putting ice cream into your pasta. For the love of fucking God, just eat your pasta in a year ice cream. Sometimes mixing shit just kind of makes both things worse. You know, like alone girls that I think are pretty seem nice. But when I get around, then they spray me with mace, they yell at me, they kick me in the balls, and not the consensual kind. So maybe I'm just, that's supposed to be mixing with other humans. Hmm. Back to the video. Let's go. Eight of them. Eight. You don't make any noise when you do it. Man, make us are you a man? Oh, damn. He's really getting after it, holy shit. I'll be afraid of my trainer. What you're guessing is a good thing. I am a man. Let me see you a man. Let me see. They're like a little boy to me. Whoa. Keep your back flat. Don't rotate. There you go. Ooh. Say it again one time. Whoa. Two. Ooh. Hey, hey, stop playing. Damn. The camera hard is trained as probably tough, because he's so funny. He throws you off your game all the time. But like, I'm trying to be tough with you, God dammit. Shut the f*** up, stop making me laugh. Two. Both got some mistakes. Because it's called working out. Two. Oh, damn, look at that pit sweat. You know he's serious. OK, here we go. Now we're going to go into a dumbbell front squats. Which is good for your back. Make sure that you don't bend over. Good for your core is good for activation. Well, you already know what I think about core activation. I don't know what it is. And why people keep talking about it. Front squats are definitely good for training your entire core back in front. So gentlemen here, the personal trainer, he's nothing correct about that. But the main target, if you believe me, if I told you, is the legs. It's actually the legs. Right here, Kiff. I want you to do 12. If you're going to keep your elbows locked in, you're going to squat, keep your chest up. And you're going to go 12. Yeah, I would much prefer he takes the dumbbells and as in our our painstructional videos, puts them like this on top of a shoulders. That way with just a gentle push, most of the load is taken in through your shoulders. If you're top and curling, if you tilt over even a little bit, it's going to start to unravel. And it really turns into like a really difficult bicep and shoulder exercise. Mine or critique, but nonetheless, I think we're sharing with you guys. Based on the way my legs look, because they're kind of small. You would think I don't work my legs. But I do. They how racial are we allowed to get here, Scott? Zero. Zero racial. Ha ha ha. People of West African ancestry typically have smaller calves because through their evolutionary lineage, they're optimized to run and jump better, which actually means that your calves should be mostly tendon to get that bounce to react to force. And so if you're black and you have small calves, you've got an uphill battle coming your way. But good news, the rest of you was born perfect. Start later, you want to get up? Ah, Kevin. You see how we ignores all of his trainer's cues like bowling over it, his back failing to activate his core, not going sufficiently deep. Though he does have some pretty impressive calves, I must say. Whoa, defeat a turn too far out. There you go, keep your chest up. See how he's bending? Keep your chest up, there you go. The trainer, excellent critiques so far. One active, eight to core. All right. But what's the next one? There's no way that this filming involved Kevin Hart actually training. Because I literally think he did three reps. And I was like, f*** that camera guy, maxed. We're going to go through 21s. But I saw a metric hole on the curls. You know, it's curl, 7. I saw a metric hole right here. 7. And I want you to do 21. I didn't do 21, because we only got enough time for you to do 21s. The ice-thometric hold is a good way to waste a lot of energy, just curl up and down, folks. Quick in the assent, slow and controlled into the assent. Full range of motion every time and repeat. You don't have to make things fancy. Holding in the middle for no f***ing reason, holding and doing this. It's wasting more energy than it's giving you muscle stimulus. What do you get when PhD sports scientists collaborate with pro bodybuilders? The most effective muscle growth training I've ever made. Get yours now. And we go out here right now. We'll do it. I submit the hold and we'll do it. Why do you think I talk like that? I'm texting. I don't take this. I don't take this. Okay. And then taking me. I know what the truth. I love right there. Kevin Hart should be curling deeper. I hate to interrupt a comics routine, but this is no good. We want this full extension. That's real. I'm not trying to move. I'm not trying to move. I'm not trying to move. I'm not trying to move. I'm not trying to move. I'm not trying to move. I'm okay with the way I talk. Do you have to be confident in who you are? I love the trainer. I'm going to see how many push-ups you could do in one minute. How many do you think you could do in one minute? Zero. I could do 265 push-ups. You're a lot? Both. Both claim Mr. Kevin Hart. That's find out what a push-up means. Clock-stop and I'm ready. Not terrible. He can go slower. He can go lower. He can pause at the bottom. But his range of motion isn't awful. 15, 20, 5, 6, 7, 8. I mean, even counting by five is he's probably not going to make it to 265. 42, 43. 43. 50. Comment up. 4, 100 guys. 50. That's all. I'm going to be on the home. Finish your full minute, please, because he stopped at 58 seconds. What? Damn. Zero respect is the number one requisite for being a good personal trainer. Because you might be something out there in the world. When you come to the gym, I'm going to shed all over you. Because you need reality to strike. If you don't do everything right, you boys yelling here. I love this fucking trainer guy. I want his number. Not just calling him or texting him in the middle of the night, make it picks. I want to rule that out. Let me just chain or talk. You know, like, make it picks in the middle of the night. I'm not really sure what that is. It's like, hey, pretend to be a beetle that's clinging onto a window for dear life. Go, there are two contexts in which this makes sense. You're a beetle clinging for dear life on a window. Or you are an adult dancer at Magic City in Atlanta. There's no one between. Oh, shit. All right, that's dope. I would love to see Kevin really stretch out at the bottom of each repetition. But he's got that chain on. I don't know if that's just like modern African American fashion. Or if that is really a way to chain either way. It's impressive. Another thing is he's got his legs out in front of him, which is extra fucking hard and really makes this impressive. Kevin Hart's the real deal in the gym. Also, look at that bulge. I got this guy. He's got the video guy. Did you notice that? Or is that just me again? Kevin Hart, you might be four foot six, but there's two of you in there that are four foot six. Who around the world? This is cool. This is cool. It's dynamic. It's fun. Yeah, no hate on this exercise. Woo, roll out. This is brutal. This is actually a fucking phenomenal exercise. And it is exactly as phenomenal as it is embarrassing because you realize you're not nearly strong as you thought you were. The fact that you have to roll the plate out means it makes you do the centric, the lengthening part of the contraction slowly. If you do it quickly, the thing will just roll out and you're falling your face. This is actually an unbelievably excellent way to challenge yourself and it'll f**k your abs up like you wouldn't believe. I'm all for this exercise. This is f**k it really, I'm stuff. I don't know what this is. I don't know why his hands are behind his head. This is a single leg press. It's on one of those life fitness leg press machines, which suck because the range of motion at the bottom is f**k dick. If you're strong enough, you just get shot out of that chair. So whoever made that machine, you've done better things with your life, I hope. I'd like to see him get a lot deeper on this and slower and more control and actually hold the handles. They're there for a reason. Yeah. Yeah, whatever the f**k that is, Dildo Rose. I like to be able to really pull on a, well, this is called what it is, a cock. And ideally, I'd like to pull on two cocks at the same time. But this is nothing in the gym. They can really replicate that a weight. Throw these towels around this bar and you got yourself f**k specific workout. Pull them close to me, never push them away, ever. Free cocks are always a blessing. Um, f**k. Alright, if you guys like that, we have an extended cut in our member's section, which requires you to pay money. I know, paying money is bad, but laughter is good. So is learning. Check out a member's section and then you'll have some fun. Kevin Hart now recovers from back surgery. Oh, I didn't know that. Holy shit. My back injury can be never ending and everlasting, depending on how you handle it, and how you treat the recovery process. Oh, it's a men's health video, prepare for terrible. You know, even now, I can't go and run three miles. I can't. The reality behind that is you're still healing. And you have to understand it. That's a process. Respect. This is good. He'll probably make a really good physical therapy patient because a lot of the worst patients are people that don't have patients erotically. And they'll rush and get re-injured and they just never kind of zone in to be like, you know what, I'm going to do this in a great slow ramp up. And I don't care how long it takes. And those people are often successful. So if you ever get hurt in the gym or outside the gym and you have to do physical therapy, even if you do it by yourself, take it smooth and take it slow and be patient. That'll pay huge dividends. There's an award you win for coming back so fast that you get hurt again. And I can't forget what it's called. Oh, yeah, that's an exist. So I can say, that's the toughest thing. I lost 17 pounds. I lost 17 pounds. I was in the hospital. All muscle mass, whatever it is that I had, was definitely going. Losing 17 pounds of muscle sucks. The benefit of losing 17 pounds, however, is that if you eat well and you start training with weights, you can get back a crap load of muscle really, really fast. Your muscles have a muscle memory of sorts. You'll get back your old size quite quickly, especially once you're able to train hard. And you can get really, really lean because if you stay the same weight at the hospital, but you lose muscle and you gain fat, you gotta lose that fat and then regain the muscle. But if you lose weight total, that means you didn't really gain much fat. You lost a bunch of muscle. As you gain your muscle again, you're going to be really, really sharp at the end of that process. So, a bit of a silver lining. Literally, as I was going through physical therapy, I started to see myself get back to a place of positive weight. A place of positive weight. That's a big positive and that helps me balance the things that are tough to me to be able not to do now. That was nice, Scott. Thanks for putting that in there. Good mindset, shit. Mindsense, shit. I love it. We're going to do some moves out here. We can use a tire. I love it. Training on the farm. Top of the thing right here. You can move. Boom. All right. That's cool. Jumping around, stuff. You'll get the blood flowing. Not exactly the best workout for looking better, but get your move in and it's healthy. Good for you. Good job. Good job. You can do this at home. You can play with the kids while you're doing this. How the f*** would you do that? Guess getting the kids involved, huh? I'm not legally around to be allowed to be around children. We're mentioning them. Ooh. So, here's what I want you to do. I want you to do a flip. Okay. Flip. Control. Let it drop. Hop to it. Come in back. Flip it. For 30 seconds. Hop through. This is cool stuff to get a little work. I didn't get the blood flowing. I guess not going to make you jacked or lean or look much better. But it's fine and it's healthy and just the whole family you do it. I don't know. I ran out of positive shit to say. This sucks. Last moving on, dude. I'm going to see if you can hold his hay barrel. Hold it. Hold it. So what we used to do. Hey, what? Hey, bearer. Kevin Hart's like, I thought that was called bail of hay, not a barrel. But, all right. This face right there says it all. My man. But I want you to do it. I just want you to walk this around like this. This is all classic strong man training. Some of my favorite training is strong man training. I like to call it strong man, SNM for short. You feel on the blanks at home and it really mean. It's training in a certain sense. I mean, told what especially not to do, and that I'm pathetic. Good times. Dad, shut, always eat knowledge, God damn, hey. Yeah, show you walk around. Jesus Christ. Yeah. Why you eat so much in his head? Come on, bro. Guys call him for my cares. Well, now we got to get him out of here. One more time, bro. All right. What is the point of this movement? Is it to expand calories? Maybe? Is it to have fun being active? Sure. Is it to optimize your physique for Hollywood? No. No, it's not. Guys, what's on the third doesn't need to be said. This was us and the outdoors on a farm. Puttin' these great objects to use. Yeah. Kevin Hart. And Hart. hilarious. Impressively strong and jacked. Excellent mindset for recovering from back injury. And his trainers not have that either. But like most trainers, we'll have their client do some rather random things to be around with. I give the trainer and his Texas accent. I tend to have 10, I give Kevin Hart and 11 out of 10 for comedy. And I give most of the workouts here. It's called Saffin' out of 10, 8 out of 10. Pretty good. Just could use a little bit of optimization here and there. And that's it. See you guys in a farm in Texas. Peace. All right. If you liked that, you two things you might like this video that I'm ostensibly pointing to. Now, mind you, there's no video here when I'm pointing to it. It's quite strange for me. But for you, I'm sure this will all make a lot of sense.

Yep, the f*** out. Okay, if there's an exercise that's more of a clown show circus exercise, I've never seen it. This is peak, peak, clown work. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NSAMSP, I am the creator of the RPA Purgeifi app and a professor of exercise and sport science at Leaven College in the Bronx in the York City. And I'm going to be evaluating Mr. LeBron James's weight training today. I'm not qualified to evaluate his basketball training, but his weight training I will take a look at. Let's see what he's doing right, what he's doing wrong, how he get better. And if he's really as bad as the Hollywood stuff, I sure hope not. Let's do the video. Men's health. Not a good sign. Hi guys, Mike. Mike. Mike. Moncias. NSM. CES. And PES. Athletic trainer and recovery specialist. Let's find out what he knows. I thought I'd try to put a little bronjane to the past 16 years. Okay, so, uh, is already a misnomer, I think, because athletic trainer or someone who helps you recover from injuries, they're not folks that are experts in designing programs to make you actively better than you would have otherwise been. That is something a strength of mission specialist does. Maybe I'm reading way too much into this. Let's find out what the truly is. Today we're at B-True Jim, the Los Angeles, and I want to take you guys through with quick demonstration on. I like that. One of the shots he's like an eye level with LeBron's asshole. Here's a yellow one up. The other up. Anyway, how should up there? That includes mobility work, some cardiovascular conditioning, upper body strength training, lower body strength training, and most importantly, some core and recovery techniques. Okay, we've got mobility work, which can be a thing. If there are known mobility deficits diagnosed from sport participation, potentially it's a thing, though proper weight training should resolve all of those. Cardiovascular work is usually not wise idea. In basketball, usually you want your basketball playing, and your basketball-related drills that a sport coach would manage for you to be, at least the vast majority of cardiovascular work. Why and almost all sport do you want most of your cardiovascular come from practicing the sport and practicing derivative moves from the sport? It's because if you just do cardio with the modalities, nothing do a sport like run on a treadmill, it gives you the cardio to be better at basketball or boxing or MMA, but doesn't give you any of the skills transfer. It doesn't give you any tactics. It doesn't actually make you better at any part of the sport, except making your red blood cells, you know, slightly higher in concentration, et cetera, making your local muskial chair a little bit better with buffering metabolites. If you instead do much of your most or many of your cardio inside sport training, for example, a basketball doing drills running around in various ways, taking passes, that can really get your heart rate going, it's incredible cardio, but it's also exactly sport-specific to the sport of basketball. And it lets you work on skills and tactics that you would in basketball, so it checks a bunch of boxes at the same time. Alright guys, so the first thing we'll talk about is preparation. App preparation does it start once you get to the gym, but it starts the night before you get to the gym, and that includes a good night's sleep. Sleep is important right on. I agree. Great dinner. Great dinner is important. Okay. Just the nutrition of the day before absolutely pretentious your workout. You sleep well, you eat well the day before, you're going to have an amazing workout the next day, chances are, if you sleep poorly and eat poorly the day before, your workout the next day is not a professional attempt at working out, which I might add since the Bronis professional basketball player me, the professional basketball player, this should all be thought through, so it's great that this coaches do it. In the morning, we'll have a pretty workout shake on the way to the gym, about half hour before we start a workout. Who workout shake sounds quite good. It can give you plenty of energy and make sure your workout goes well, plenty of hydration. What's we get at the gym? We'll start with like eight to ten minutes of foam rolling. Okay. So eight ten minutes of foam rolling. What foam rolling does pretty well is when it hits a certain area, there's a neural modulation effect where your nervous system is typically perceiving that area to be generating some pain and some discomfort and by foam rolling that area, even another area, you can take the nervous system and kind of desensitize it a little bit. There's nothing physical, mechanical, working with foam rolling people say, you know, breaks down it at the hehions and really releases your fascia. That's almost certainly not true because we have very good understanding of the kinds of forces required to actually make tissue changes and they're like 100 times higher than a force the strongest person in the world could exert in the foam roller. Like you could make the fascia change in its conformational structure if you roll like one of those asphalt rollers over it. And well, if you want to put your leg under an asphalt roller, I suppose it'll really warm you up permanently. But you'll be really ready to be a pancake forever, which is nice. If LeBron needs it and it makes them feel better, dope. If this is more like sort of a prophylactic thing, prehabestity thing, which prehabes the stupor thing in the world, then yeah, then it's not a good idea. Then it's just a just a kitch, just thrown things at the wall. And now the next exercise that will incorporate after a foam rolling is called a spider made exercise. Spider-Man. Now truth be told, there's got to be the idea how off-color can we get here? I mean, racks can always cut it. The editor can always get it. Thanks, Max. I was inclined to believe that the Spider-Man is when, you know what I'm saying, it's just going to get real as fuck. With the consenting partner, everyone's having fun. You pull out right when you're about to ski, and you ski into your own hand, and then here she, or they look up, and you go, All right, if you guys like that, we have an extended cut available for members, only so hit the join button to become a member. Johnny, here's going to demonstrate. Oh, it's a crawl, how pathetic. The property's taking me for a spider-man. Great range of motion there, great hip opener, and preparation for activity. It's not that great of a hip opener. You can open your hips much more if you just sink down to a slow, sumo squat, and you take your hands and you push your knees open. Squeeze your shoulder blades as your chest nears the floor. These like, I don't know who makes up these tips. Oh, there's a dog in this. There's a dog in the left hand corner. He's kind of chilling. Yeah, insert random nonsense for men's health. After we've known whether our hip opener and mobility routine, now we start with a total body cardiovascular warmup. Total body cardiovascular warmup, okay? One of the machines that I love to use in the gym is called the Versa Climber. All these guys use the Versa Climber's Versa Climber's Versa Climber's very challenging. It is very difficult to do. It'll warm you up really fast, so about 30 seconds to a minute on the Versa Climber at a decent pace is all who warming up that you could need. Let's see what he says now. We do three sets of 30 seconds each. We're about 15 to 20 seconds rest in between each set. Not terrible, not terrible. Just one of those would be fine, but fine. All right, so John is now going to demonstrate how we will probably execute a Versa Climber technique. Okay, so he's the Versa Climber real fast right away. That is backwards. If you're going to do three sets, the first one you should be very lazy with, like literally moving really slow, just to get your body grooving. If you need this kind of warming up, the second set you should do pretty brisk pace, the third set you should get into it and get a little bit out of breath at the end, then you'll be really warm and it's safe the whole time. It's a great and warmup. That's the whole thing about warming up. It's great ations. This guy just gets right into the f***ing Versa Climber really fast. And don't think he needs to warm up if he's ready to just go. All right, strength training. Finally. One of our favorite exercises to do for upper body core conditioning and strength. Again, upper body core conditioning, which I really don't know what that means. That's three words thrown together and I don't know how they link. And I'm a professor. I wonder what he knows that I don't. Let's find out. It's called the inverted roll. The inverted roll is one of the easiest exercises ever. What? And that's the movement right there. All right guys, so for this, the counter-rap is about 8-12. It will do about three sets of each. Why is that guy only coming up to like two inches under the bar? Touch the bar, my f***er. He looked real talk as far as a movement of upper body pulling. This is a great movement, great for LeBron. He's got long ass arms. It's a nice and challenging for him. If you grade it and progress it, find out how to load it. Maybe have him where I have your weight best over time. This movement can be an awesome addition to being able to make a stronger, more muscular basketball player. So the movement is good. The justifications are generally nots. All right guys, so for our next upper body and actually total body movement here, one of my favorites, again, is called the land-mind rotational press. So land-mind rotational press, it ends up being an exercise that looks cool with the demonstration. It's great for general family fun and fitness. Like if you're in a fitness class in your 65 years old, it's cool to get the body moving around with some load. If you push the limiting factors like the only reason we're in the gym for a f***er. The fashion of basketball players to push is ass. It's unlikely that the exercise is conducive to overloading both the pulling and the pushing complex at the same time. And also, it really turns into more of a grip exercise because the end of a barbell believe it or not is really hard to grip because it's already kind of oily. It's really, really thick, much thicker than regular bar, and it independently rotates. So bad news. But this, we saw with a nice wide base, a nice wide stand. Really engaging the gluten, engaging the core. We load up. Engaging the gluten core is what people say when they have nothing else to say. They just say like, stay stable and don't round over like a question mark. It's not the same thing as engaging the gluten core, right? I think people say that just because people go, okay, core, that means I'm going to have lean abs. Glutes, that means I'm going to have a f***ing sweet ass. People are looking at me and want to have sex with me. I think that's why people say it a lot. It's nothing to do with how anyone should ever be teaching this people. You know, part of the bra's game is playing a both of the rim and transfer energy in the ground up up into the rim. And this is exactly what that exercise is going. Okay. So you can't be too explosive with this exercise because you'll throw it and then it'll flip on someone and kill them. If I want energy transfer from the ground and explosion, I would much rather see LeBron do a traditional cross-fits style thruster, which is basically a front squat that ends in a push press. You could also do a variety of weightlifting dread of movements, push presses, push jerks, squat press, all this other kind of stuff. You can do loaded jumps, you can do medicine ball throws. This is an exercise that the looks like it sort of does triple extension, which is when you extend your ankles, your knees and your hips, the jump movement, the most athletic movement that humans can do, it's only cosmetically so because it's not ballistic. An exercise which you really want power transfer from to fuel athleticism, you want it to be powerful, which means explosive. And ballistic means at the very end of the exercise, you're throwing it. He is not throwing shit. He's just finishing the movement and locking it out. It's one of those exercises. Unfortunately, there's very many of these that people do in program and trainers like to talk about. It looks athletic, but it's not nearly as athletic as it looks. For some of LeBron's ability, I would qualify that this whole workout so far as a warm-up. Warm-up to something, I'm not sure what, but if we were to take that exercise and make it something LeBron can benefit from, we would either need to do it explosively, where he gently sinks into a lunge and then blows completely back out, jumping as high as he can, or he does it for reps to build hypertrophy and build resilience. But then he would have to wear weight vest or hold dumbbells or something because bodyweight lunges are not nearly difficult enough for an athlete that can have a f***ing dunk a basket ball. What do you get when PhD sports scientists collaborate with pro bodybuilders? The most effective muscle growth training I've ever made. Get yours now. Alright guys, so you've seen the exercises now. Let's talk about recovery. Man, I count there were like three exercises. There's entire parts of the body, totally missing. I don't know how that falls into a training week, and so far, not so good. Let's talk about recovery, since we work so hard. So recovery for us entails three different things. Is nutrition, nutrition, check? This mobility does not have anything to do with recovery mobility, but fine. And it's a little bit of a crawout therapy at the end of the day. Crout therapy. Okay, no key. Crout therapy actively reduces the hypertrophic and probably strength yield of your program. Crout therapy is something to do when you have like back to back basketball games. And you don't want to be sore from one of the games into the other game. You do some crawout therapy immediately after that first game or really hard practices concluded so that you never start to make the positive adaptations to your body to begin with. And thus the positive adaptations. They're awesome once you get them, but during the time that you're getting them, you're going to be stiff and sore. Like if you're a trained you're like really hard, you're like to get sore a few days later they heal. If you need to be on point and use your legs a ton that day after, you don't want them sore. So if you cryotherapy right after your leg workout, your legs will get much less sore and not sore at all. They won't grow, they won't adapt, they won't make you better. But right after the cryotherapy in the next day, you'll actually feel really, really fresh and you'll feel like all I can do this again. So cryotherapy is excellent in the context of professional sports. If we're dealing with baseball players, hockey players, basketball players, that there's a couple of games in a row where they have to be on. You want to give them cryotherapy after every game. That's a very, very good idea in a normal training environment, which is I assume where he's going, where we just spent an entire session trying to listen positive adaptations like games and strength and hypertrophy. Cryotherapy is actually going to work backwards. It's going to work against us. And the fact this gentleman doesn't know that means he's at least five to ten years out of date with scientific literature, which means, you know, like, I guess we could all be better at a job. I could be better looking, but God decided, hey, you're going to look like Ninja Turtle and an M1 Abrams tank mixed together. But you'll be five for one. No one will talk to you in school. So for us nutrition is easy. That's the latter plant based protein powder. Easy plant based protein powder recovery nutrition check. Plant based protein powder is totally fine though, especially if you're using a complete plant protein, which they often have to congeal together from a couple of sources, unless it's so much less. So plant based protein powder is cool. I would prefer to also have carbohydrates in there. Proteins plus carbs after training is better than protein alone for a variety of reasons of coverage, potentially, if an avalism is so on and so forth. So just the protein shake alone is a good start. It's not the best, but it's a good start. Okay, so B plus so far. B minus. And the second is mobility. Mobility is the ability to have strength through a given range of motion. Mobility is flexibility plus strength. So I don't I know exactly what that has to do with a covering on top. Here you guys in on this. When you have a high level of cumulative fatigue, you've been training for weeks really hard. Part of your body's reaction mostly mediated by the nervous system is it actually makes you less flexible. Your tightness correlates very well to your degree of systemic fatigue. And so if you impose recovery modalities on that system, such as light training that's easier than normal training, lots of sleep, lots of food, lots of relaxation. Over several days and maybe even up to a week, your flexibility and the mobility rapidly improves. Because that systemic fatigue is going down. But if you misinterpret high chronic fatigue levels and their effect on mobility is a mobility problem. And try to solve the mobility problem by doing mobility drills. The benefit sort of is that you'll get some light training in and that will help reduce the fatigue. But the actual working on the mobility part isn't helping anything because the mobility is the symptom. It's not the f*** problem. It's like you get some virus that makes your lymph nodes blow up and you're like, We got a medicine to make your lymph nodes come back down. That's nice and all. It'll make me feel better. But what's it doing about the virus? And the guy's like, oh, virus. I'm not a real doctor. This guy real trainer. That's what his, what a CV says. Yeah. That's, that's me stretching him. Oh shit, he gets a stretch of the prawn. Did a fire stretch on the ground? That position would be like, hey, have a good game. I'll see you after. He's like, what? I'm not sexually. Of course not. I mean, unless, not on a, but no, no. Look, what ever you need, man. Lockrooms are the only place. Post exercise stretching. It can feel very nice. Has no research confirmed benefits for recovery and has seemingly no theoretical rationale for recovery as well. So if you want to stretch it for makes you feel good. It's totally cool to do a little bit of a mile stretching after the workout. Is it something that you're like, oh, man, I don't feel like stretching. I'm in a rush. And he'd go, should I stretch? I know it's important. It's not important. It's not important. Stretching is not important. If he was a very excellent trainer, he could just call the bra on the real deal. And they're like, look, bro. So this doesn't do shit. Let's get you the fuck out of here. Go, you'll do whatever for a basketball players do that's much more Potentuating and recovery. Play, play, play station and have gourmet food available to them at on hours. And, you know, he's got the video guys. LeBron, monogamous. He has a wife, then the whole NBA. I've seen real housewives of basketball. I know what he monogamous, I'm not the fuck. On the road, we fill up his, his hotel room bath with ice water. On the road, that makes him sense, especially if he has big games. Coming up, or it can be so discipleated as a foot bath cold. And there's a lot of ice on Mr. LeBron. It's, yeah, playing basketball into your later years. There's a motherf***er. I see, I see his dick. The cell phone wife, he's a cash yet. Hey, honey. Now, no, no, I didn't use it like that. No, baby, they're nothing to me. They're no one. I need no her name. I'll see you at 12. Alright, so we want to have a lot today. But just remember, some of the simplest routines that exercise is. I probably wasn't a most beneficial for you. Yes, that's actually true. Some of the most simple routines that exercise is probably the most beneficial to you. And we saw just mostly kind of complex stuff. Justifying in a bunch of different weird ways. Logs, you focused on your intensity, you focused on your movement. There was no intensity demonstrated. Forex on your movement is a good idea. And that's where you see some results. Great. Canon fodder for mental. They're like, just say stuff so we can have out-trump music play. Yeah. More fuck, great. Get the fuck out. Okay. If there's an exercise that's more of a clown show circus exercise, I've never seen it. This is peak, peak, clown work. This entire exercise is going to confer one advantage. It's a good practice to do this trick on social media. As far as general qualities that can be siphoned from this, to go to basketball or any other thing, that's not a thing. General balance training does not transfer to various other sports. And LeBron's basketball specific ability to balance is so frighteningly high. The only thing that can improve that is his challenge on the basketball court with my f***ing push in a barang. That's it. I love that there's gags to wrap on in the background. Like, m***, you ain't hard doing the shit's the least hardship anyone's ever done. Let's address a few things. If how should athletes actually train for example, ask while athletes in the gym, they should take the core movement patterns. Pushing with your legs, pulling with your upper body, pushing with your upper body, pushing and pulling with your whole body, break those down into very simple lifts. Deficit dead lifts, stiff leg and dead lifts, the weightlifting derivatives, pulls, mid thigh pulls, hand cleans, push presses, squats, front squats, bench presses, dumbbell presses, Smith machine throws, Madison ball throws. Take all that real good stuff, pull ups, rows, etc. And you take the gnarliest compound heavy versions of those, and sets of five to ten reps. And you get that athlete stronger in that rep range, and they're going to put on a ton of muscle. When you're doing that, you're also doing some sets of three to six work, even heavier to get them stronger. And while you're doing that, you're doing some very limited work of very lightweight, explosively, to develop power, something like a Madison ball slam or something like that, Smith machine, barbell throw. As you get closer to their season, you do less muscle growth work, more strength work, and a little bit more power work. When you get to their season or very close to it, you almost completely eliminate the hypertrophy work. You just keep the strength work sets of three to six in the same compound, gnarly heavy movements, and then you expand the amount of power work that they're doing, focusing on jumps and throws and plows, so that they're peaked for that power performance, which the leapie power is the only thing that really matters in basketball. After the end of their season, you give them a few weeks off, and you bring them in, and you start to work mostly on hypertrophy again. That's actual sports science, and tiresposed to train elite athletes. The reason I delete athletes are often not trained like this, is that they are the people that choose who trains with them and how. They have their preferences, and they mostly just want to train their sport, and when they do resistance training, they mostly want it to be as easy as possible, so they don't get so entired for their sport. Because most athletes don't know modern periodization, they are not sports scientists, they are not sport coaches, they don't know how to put together a good plan, but whenever they say, because they cost millions of dollars, other people will do included in trainers, and if they find a trainer they work well with, which is usually a guy that just gets along with them while tells them a little bullshit about how to exercise helping this in that. Make it seem like it's challenging, but in a way that doesn't beat them up, like balance training and most of all stuff, they'll keep that guy around, because again, my trainer's great. And we do training, and we check that box, and everything's fine. But training is not about checking a box. Training is about going the heart, and most of the folks in basketball don't know how to go hard without f***ing up their game. In real sport scientists for that, this is not that many of us around. In New Mr. LeBron, I haven't returned to calls, and no, I won't be your personal coach. Just kidding, if you want to holler your boy, saying, out of few slots open. Anyway, that workout gets three out of ten for mostly f***ing useless. Why is LeBron so good at basketball? Genetics, that or mother f***ing. I'll see you in the play basketball for 20 f***ing years. See you guys next time.

Dude, her trap and doubt game is like at a thousand. Leem beef patty is the perfect sleeper jacked. You would see her little hoodie at the movies and you'd be like, that's a fitness person. Then she just flexes her hoodie comes off and she's like, look at me. I'm the movie now. You're not watching Shrek 3 anymore. You're looking at me, lean beef patty. Why? Because, nah. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. I'm a former professor of exercise and sport science. It Brazilian Jutsu Black Belt and a competitive bodybuilder. And also someone who really struggles to make sense of the world around him every day and isn't Sector Therapy. But enough about me, I was sitting at home alone as a typical my wife has out with, again, Scott, some guy named Jamal. She says is an assistant from work. He's helping her plug-up a couple of loose ends. And she's on a cruise. Yeah, she's on a cruise with him now. And so I was home alone and I get a direct message on Instagram. And I'm like, oh my God, it's from Leem beef patty. So I click on it and she's a hey Dr. Mike. You ain't shit. And I was like, Leem beef patty, someone stole your phone. This can't be you. She's like, it is me. And by the way, I bet you won't never review another video of mine with me lifting and you'll never praise if my technique is good or bad or how you can add to it because you suck. And I was like, you know, Whitley and beef, I don't have to put up with this, but I believe in myself. She's like, you're not going to watch you do nothing about this. And then I tried to hit her up, but she blocked me on social media. So Leem beef, I got balls today. We're going to critique your videos again. And this time I'm going to say, mean crazy shit that'll get us both canceled. How's that possible again? Another person canceled. Oh, well, well, we have leaked emails, you guys. Scott, we have leaked emails. Oh, all right. But we could, we could at the very least, we're going to look at Leem beef patty's training and see what kind of whatever she calls training. Leem beef patty, hey, if you're listening to this, the war has just been brought to your front door. I didn't mean to rhyme that. Maybe I'm a rapper. Let's go. Starting off with the best, glute building. Demolial exercises. It's reverse deficit lunges. So this is how I like to set it up. This is for support. You don't need it. I need the support. I need all the support I can get, baby. You know, nothing wrong with that. Emotional supports what I need. And all of your comments are usually just making fun of me. So it's not helping. Guys, if you can get in the comments right now and tell me something nice, it doesn't even have to be about me. Just be like, did you know that at Guana's live two times longer than other lizards? I'm not sure if that's true, but it's nice to hear. It's inspirational. Please help me. This is the supporting hand. This is the working leg. And then stepping off, off that, stepping. That looks really cool. This is excellent technique as usual from Mrs. Leem beef patty. The support is really swell. As a lot of you're not like just pulling on that thing as hard as possible and using it at a relatively honest way to just make sure that you can be stable, the added stability is a big deal. Because every time you become more stable in your movements, your ability to activate larger portions of your muscles and thus grow more increases substantially. So if you're really wobbly, it's not the best thing in the world. If you're stable, just with one hand, then you're in a really, really good place. Looks like fully inaction with a dumbbell. Look at that control. I love it. The gentle touch of the knee. Some people do lunges and they're like, look. I want bigger glutes, yes, but I'm also lazy and careless. So what I'll do is as soon as I drop into that eccentric, I'm gonna break my knee into the ground as hard as humanly possible. Some people say, like, you can hurt your knee. I probably said that before. I was wrong. You know, you're knee hitting and into a patded surface. And if you are, you had to come in your made of in glass. It does rob you of extra tension. Your muscles could be generating because you're getting the rebound out with the knee. So that gentle, slow approach is a really, really swell idea. And also, Scott, is this lean beef patty quirkiness or are we all supposed to wear a socks like that? Like what? Like halfway up the leg. That's the way the tiptockers do what these do. Do they really, am I not a tip? Get maxed together with what socks it's not your seat. I typically don't look that low on him. What I would say is a cool modification of you interested in for this exercise, is to take your foot and step really far back. That requires your torso to bend forward to adjust. And it stretches your glutes even more. The glute rather than one that you're training. And that tension under stretch is a big deal for hypertrophy. You're gonna sit really far back. And instead of putting your toe on the ground, normal like so that you can push off your back leg, you push your foot so far up and out that you touch your shoe laces to the ground. So you're like ballet pushing your foot out, shoe laces to the ground. And then not pushing off that foot at all, using only your glute on that front leg to drive up out that maximizes the amount of tension we have at the bottom of the position and drives even more growth to that glute. That's extra advanced ultra bonus points. The wailing beef paddy's doing her and I was already excellent and I do this one all the time, but that little modifier can really, really help. Honestly, this one is a great one that you can use straps. Oh, oh, you're a big, big guy, big. But Misslein beef paddy, those don't look like straps. Those look like something that I for a long time thought honestly was a myth. If you read all of the elder books, the Torah, the Bible, the Quran, Scott to the Buddhist have a book. Adi, if I would give the with something, shit like that, come a sutra. And every single one of them has a little story in there that mentions the advanced alien race that came down and gave us the power and the words are different, but usually it's of grip. And for a long time anthropologists had absolutely no idea how this could be across cultural phenomena until they discovered that approximately 6,000 years ago into the Sahara Desert, which I believe an Arabic has just termed The Desert. Crash landed an entire, great full of completely finished, RP branded Versa-Grips product. And if the old tribes people wandering the Al-Sahata came upon this treasure trove and they had no idea what it was for, one of them reached in. Boom, and the Gerr-Versa-Grips grabbed him and guess what the Versa-Grips do. When they wrap around a tumblr barbell, they do not let go. That man traveled to all of the world's religions afterwards and he wrote in every important text, what this gripping device could be like. And now link in the description, you could have it yourself. Scott, do you think the Versa-Grips people are gonna fire us? I think you're a cross, right? Do they can't leave? Maybe because they're Versa-Grips to their desk. If you work up to a heavier weight and you're like, wow, my grip strength is not that strong. Which is totally okay. Look at this, and look at this. Which one do you think is stronger? But Lean Beef Patty, I don't train my legs, but I train my forms a whole lot. Hey, hey, what does the fucking mean by that? I only answer that, it's this, okay? So, straps. Yeah, Scott, she really drove the point home a lot better than I did with my reference to Ancient Egyptian culture. Versa-Grips is just highly beef Patty, she's better at this than I am. That is the reverse deficit lunch. These studies are coming out all the time. Everybody's studying. We got a bunch of scholars out there doing. I love that. Studies, who needs them? I agree. Anyway, I did see a study that was talking about the best exercises for glue growth and step-ups. We're actually way up there. Literally. Scott, that's because they're higher up. This is how it's going to look with a dumbbell in one hand, and a support in the other. Support. Again, kind of same concept. You don't want to be fricking, pulling yourself super hard up here. Otherwise, it becomes on our workout. Now, if this with the dumbbell is too difficult for you, obviously. Obviously, just don't be weak, and I've been lean beef Patty. It's the dumbbell. If that's too hard. Ah, smart. This is a cool thing about step-ups is they're very, very much adjustable. If you can't do a whole lot of step-ups at a high angle, don't. However, I would say because a high angle allows that deep, glued stretch, one modifier you can do easily as well, is just do fewer reps. So people do sets of 10, 15, 20 on the step-ups. You can just drop the dumbbells off completely, and, or, just do sets of like five, and that will 100% grow you muscle. It's lower, alright? So it's less of a step. So you'll still be doing a step-up, and you'll still be working your glute. It just won't be as intense. This is a really good scaling option. This is for someone who's just not really familiar with exercise, kind of dabble a little bit, not in the best shape in the world. Listen, I'm not in the best shape of the world. We all start somewhere. As you get mastery over that partial step-up, I highly encourage you to add steps to make it a challenge, not just challenge reps, challenge weight, but challenge that range of motion, because the higher you can step up, the more glute recruitment and the more glute tension at a stretch you're going to generate, which is going to cause two things. More glute growth and more obscene attention for men about your now much bigger glutes. Our PI-perchrophy app comes with dozens of pre-made programs from two days of training per week all the way up to six days of training, with specialized programs included for shoulders, arms, chest, back, legs, abs, and glutes. Each one with male and female options. You get them all and can use them as often as you like, even building off of them to make your own customized versions, for only about a dollar a day. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. The Bulgarians, which is why! Ah! Someone in the gym is like, patting, patting. Just a little bit, shutting the fuck up. Your headphones are in. No big deal though. And she doesn't hear that person, so just keeps yelling. There's actually two different ways to do Bulgarians. One is more a quad focus. The other is more glute and ham focus. First, let me show you the quad one. Notice how my freaking knee is way over my toe? Yep, that's how you know it's going to be more quad focused. Ooh! This is the more generally glute ham string one. You sit back into it. Beautiful. What a great demonstration. Now the reality is that if you sit back from a very narrow foot position, one that's not too far away from you, it actually requires a lot of quad receptor from that other leg to push you out of it. So it turns into kind of a really good workout for your glute. And you're wrecked them on the other side of your leg on that other quad, which is kind of like a two for one special because that straight torso with that leg all the way back really stretches that part of the middle part of your quad of ton like nothing else does. It gives it a great workout. So that should actually be swell advice. You can hit the middle of your quad and your glute at the same time just by alternating legs and doing it right. They will say that getting that foot out a little bit further probably helps a substantial amount with making sure that that glute is the limiting factor. Because when you get tired and stuff, it becomes a little bit difficult to coordinate which way you're going. If you have a wider stance, it really just narrows you in to just one path. Scott, I'm not feeling so good. I'm sorry. If I were off-green onesy, what I feel better? I think so. I would like to see that. Well, I would feel better. And I would feel you. We'll be back in a minute. This is going to be my first working set. Scott, why isn't she on? I'm going to try to get 10. I up the weight from the last time I did this. I also used a different machine last time so it wasn't like the same weight but I remember what I used to do on this one. So I'm going to try to do 10. So, all these mocks. You guys will notice this is a great exercise. Great stretch, great contraction. You really can move your back dynamically. If you don't get pulled into the machine with low traction on the ground, you're good to go. You'll notice that lean beef patty is touching her lap. Now, the number one reason people do this is because, actually, this is, I think, really good to do. Scott, have you ever done these before? There's nothing good to do with that other arm. You just kind of weirdly hangs out. So if you cut across like this, it kind of works. The other thing is, there is some research to suggest that if you palpate a muscle during its contraction, if you're having trouble connecting with that muscle, it can help a little bit. Is it a ton? No. Is it cool for vibes? Yes. Do you just kind of want to grow up yourself when you have juicy lats? Yes. The more muscular you get, the more time you spend alone in a bathroom with a lot of downlighting and jazz music, bubble bath, the you start growing. Who are you dating? Myself. We've been going through a rough time. Myself and I. Scott, you ever ask yourself on a date and yourself says no? Oh, it's fine. Does yourself ever say, like, yeah, totally we should definitely hook up and kind of go to you on that. It's been ghosted by myself for some rest. It's tough. Yeah. Dude, Scott, her trap and delt game is like at a thousand. Lean beef patty is the perfect sleeper jacked. Right? Like, you would see her a little hoodie at the movies and you'd be like, that's a fitness person. Then she just flexes or hoodie comes off and she's like, look at me. I'm the movie now. You're not watching Shrek 3 anymore. You're looking at me. Lean beef patty. Why? Because, nah. Okay, that was actually pretty. Difficult. That was really good. One thing you can try on your own training is after you finish that last rap, treat the eccentric, the lowering portion as if you're going to do another rap. Because at that point, your muscles are very, if it's teaked, the very close to failure, they're in a very high state of proneness to growth of being stimulated. And so that one last little slow rap all the way to the end of the big stretch in a hold for a second. Nah. Can be a teeny little bit of difference. And it's not super hard because you already do the concentric work. You're just riding it out. Is it true fact to say that your nervous system is more active during the concentric phase, pushing phase of the pulling phase versus the eccentric, which is the lowering the control phase. And so if you can get less nervous system fatigue, which is the thing, for actually probably a little bit more hypertrophy, because the concentric phase really grows a lot of muscle. Might as well finish off that last rap. Is that a huge deal? But it'll make a massive difference in your life. And I guarantee you that it'll make you millionaires. Oh no, millionaires. A billionaire. Scott, what would you do if you had a billion dollars? I wouldn't be here. I'll tell you that much. Dick, I'd still be here. It's wrong with you. No, you know what? Don't get going stupid, get going bullshit back there. I'm offended. Let's continue. If you've never seen this before, it's a little hack for the shorties. My wife is four feet 11 inches and she showed me this hack. And while I thought it was really creative and encouraged her to do it, I told her I'll never, ever get caught doing this. As long as I'm alive, why? Folks, I have said many things about my height. And though you may have heard that I am roughly five, six, unfortunately, that's an exaggeration. It was the doctor's office a few days ago for my blood work and annual checkup. I was measured at five foot two and a quarter. And because I am what the internet calls constantly, even though it hurts my feelings a ton, a manlet, I refuse to accept my destiny. And so I've tried to get muscular and get a bunch of degrees and make a much of money and get a whole black belt and everything so that the screening void of your two short to be a real man, but shut the f-gupped for once in my head, and did it work absolutely not? And I still but heard about it. So when people are like, hey, you should try this adjustment first. I'm like for what? For who? I'm good. I'll use the regular weight like normal people. People are always like, dude, that hell is wrong with you. Oh, there's something wrong with me now. I'm not tall enough to be correct. They're like, I, I, I don't know. Oh, you're gonna, you're gonna constrain me with your hands because I'm sure it's gonna be easy. Cause, oh, you just put your hand on my forehead and I can't, I can punch you like that. Is that what you're gonna do? Scott, Scott, help. Am I okay? Or am I okay? I'm okay. I'm, I'm like a, like a, like a king or like a short king. You can just drop the short part or the score. Yeah, he thinks Scott, see guys, that wasn't so hard. Hey, go shorty. See how close it is? That was well timed. I feel like that was personal. I'm not sure, I mean, guys, when leave me standing at a collab, I have to look up as what I'm trying to say. Pause. We have a member section where this video can be even longer, even harder, and even more uncut. I guess technically, I don't know. In any case, the member area has tons of other cool stuff. It's a little bit of money for a huge amount of value. Click on things. Buy them. Let's get back to the video. Okay, I'm gonna do three sets of 10 to 12. I'm gonna see how this weight feels because I don't want to do it like super heavy and just like be thrown the way around. I'm trying to, I'm trying to feel it. Trying to feel it. So, what was, what was she, you, you like? Mm. Yeah, good idea. Sometimes you get the ego gets the best of you and you start throwing around weight and do your joints feel something, your ego feels something, but you're not able to control the eccentric, you're not able to go through a full range of motion. Sometimes, like, instead of contracting your lats, to do the pull down, you're like contracting everything and your glutes mostly. So, there's definitely a thing where, by feel alone, it's good to sometimes train in the motto of ranges. Now, in the pull down, this is especially true. Some exercises like the bench press, the squat, as long as you do the full range of motion, you're gonna be using the muscles that you have to, there's no other way to do it. For the pull down, there's a lot of weekly stuff that happens, especially at low reps, so my personal recommendation for pull downs is just never really go below, like, especially on your first set, below 10 reps is probably unwise for most people. 10? There's 20 reps, that's a really good. If you want to go heavier, do pull ups are assistant pull ups beforehand, and then you have a good exercise match to the loading range and everything works out really well. Big stretch, I love it. Now, you'll notice that Leemby Patty doesn't come all the way down to her chest. I used to be real pristaken about this, and then I realized I just have diagnosable obsessive compulsive disorder. Scientifically, there's no real reason to touch your chest than as a matter of fact we know, that if you work the pull ups at the upper half of the range, as long as you get that big, narrowly stretch, then you're actually doing a lot for your growth, possibly even more than doing through a full range. So, this is actually really really great technique. You'll also notice that she stops a little bit at the bottom, that's totally fine for variation, but from most people in most cases, I would say stopping at the bottom, maybe something you can skip, just get to that bottom part, and then come back up under control, because a lot of energy that you spend right here at the bottom, isn't spent in a lengthened position, it's a short position in the muscle, is you're spending a lot of energy generating fatigue, but you're not getting as much growth stimulus as if you instead pause at the very top and stretched out for a second. That would be a better use of the pause, but for variation, this is really good, and honestly, with a back as big as Leemby Patty, I don't even know why I'm talking shit, I back's not that big. All right, and now the last thing I'm gonna do is a little bit of abs, so I'm gonna do these here. Scott, remember I tried to do that once and just stopped. Cable crunch, last exercise here. That, anyway, I don't train abs, Cable crunches. Let's go. Oh, that's such a technique you guys. Notice, Leemby Patty's hips barely moved at all. The only thing that happened was her spine flexed, and then her spine extended, and that is exactly what the abdominal muscles do, they both actively flexed the spine, and they resist extension under load, which is what makes them jacked. A lot of people to do this exercise end up doing this with their hips, which hits the hip flexors, and a hip to abs, someone, but it's not ideal. This amount of bodily control is honestly really, really impressive. Maybe the only thing more impressive in this video than that is how exactly Leemby Patty is, Scott, look at her shoulders and arms. Huge, and you can even see like a side-six pack in that position. This is why it's tough. Fokes. What can we say? Lean Beef Patty. Octupize one half of the demographic of the world. In the half that nose things, because as we know, there's only two kinds of people. People that don't know things. Dr. Oz, liver king, people like that. And then people that know things. Joe Rogan, Lean Beef Patty. Scott, the video guy, you're welcome, Scott. Thank you. I appreciate that. Are you trying to disagree with the fact that you know things? Yeah. Are you a bull? Scott, do you think you have the second or first lowest self-esteem that we will? It's the first with that life. Yeah. Lean Beef Patty knows things. She's great. Met her in real life once, cried for hours afterwards, out of sheer just existential joy of having met Lean Beef Patty. All jokes aside, she's awesome. Usually recommended follow. If you're a beginner, if you're female, if you're advanced, if you're male, you should literally be following Lean Beef Patty. I do not mean I'm just the internet. I mean, in real life, find out where she lives, get in your car, live in your car, let the stain really get through the cheeseburger wrappers and stuff, which she comes out to go drive to the gym, you're like, ha ha ha ha ha, then this is Lean Beef. That's what I've been doing for years. Lean Beef Patty, when are you gonna notice me? Maybe never, but I like it that way. With the hell this video got weird, and it's gonna get weirder and I think I just were done. Guys, Lean Beef Patty gets an amazing out of 10. I've been Dr. Mike, and I will see you. And next time. All right, that was super fun. I feel leaner, beefier and a more patrisha-like. If you want to feel even more of those things, there's a video right here that keeps the fun going. See you guys next time.

What do we expect over the next 30 days from that? Over time, we're only going to decrease his calories, increase his activity, and up his cardio. Holy shit. Because of the resistance, the metabolism and the psychology form, the process gets exponentially more difficult. That's before you increase the difficult variables like physical activity and cardio, and decrease food. We're talking about a vertical line at some point at difficulty. That's going to be really tough. I'm really curious about that. So it's going to get harder with them as the video goes on. He is going to suffer. Yeah, for sure. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. I'm a former professor of exercise and sports science. I can cross-marines like this to look tough. And also, I have a black belt and I'm a bodybuilder. Would I have black belt then Scott? Uh, the bloodline is good. Uh, something with grappling and touching men. But my personal weird hobby is aside. I am aware of at least three people that go by Mr. something that are of extensive note. Mr. Jones from that kind of crow song, Mr. Johnson. Me, I'm not sure what the hell he was doing. But definitely made a song about that. Mr. Nick Shaw, who is CEO of RP and an owner of now five roles-race Phantom 2s, he collects them. That's a weird thing, but he gets called Mr. and you're all important. And to many of the most important, Mr. of them all, a Mr. Beast. Who exists and makes the most popular content the world has ever seen and to guess what Mr. Beast had done. He'd unweighted himself into some exercise and sports science stuff so that your boy can knock off some views and comment about what the hell is going on in Mr. Beast's world and we're going to take a look at a recent challenge episode dig into the science, see what's good, see what's bad and see if we can have some third rate humor about it. Three, two, one, third rate. This is my friend, Matt. Friend, Scott, are they friends? The fine friend. Exactly. Matt, so I assume his full name is Majid, which is an Arabic name. I'm just guessing. He looks, you know, Turkish enough. I would say, and, uh, Maj weighs 324 pounds, which is a lot of pounds. I don't know, Scott, he looks pretty lean to me. Will you say 15, 16% body fat? Yeah, he's pretty shredded. Not contest lean, but beach lean. And if he loses a hundred pounds in the next year, I will give him a quarter of a million dollars. The production of a video like that isn't the same guys. One of them is just not make videos like this. This is Mr. Beast territory with like a serious team and just be in the best at doing the thing. Scott, $250,000 at a box like that, I'm imagining this is mostly one's and paper maché. Yes, you get to see the box later in the center. Oh, I'm just going to do this once. Okay, that's cool. 100 pounds in a year is roughly eight-ish pounds a month that has roughly two pounds per week for someone to waste around 24 pounds. It is both incredibly challenging and doable. That's cool. This is actually at that borderline of realism where you can do it, but it's grueling. And I sure hope, Madge, got himself the RP-high-perchography app comes with dozens of pre-me programs from two days of training per week all the way up to six days of training, with specialized programs included for shoulders, arms, chest, back, legs, abs, and glutes. Each one with male and female options. You get them all and can use them as often as you like, even building off of them to make your own customized version for only about a dollar a day. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. I'm sorry about the loses belly. Yep. I have good comments. But since we were only weighing him once a month, he didn't even know how much progress he had made. Ooh, that's fun, you guys. They only weighed him once a month and he didn't know how much progress he was making. There is a dark side and a light side to that. The dark side to that is that little mini wins at least once a week can really pump you up. Not having them is ugh. The other dark side to that is you can't make adjustments to your diet and your physical activity and your training. Little fine tune adjustments to keep you losing on the right track because you don't know what your track is. So that is negative. The positive and it's a big positive. So I would say this is a totally fine move to do. Is that you don't have to worry about am I doing things right? Blah, blah, blah, blah. You just get a good healthy diet together. A good calorie deficit together just do your work. Zero stress, zero extra cortisol secretion and that way you can end up in a position where you're just doing the thing. And then once a month you get the news. Now, if after a month you get the news of like your head of schedule, hey, amazing, keep going. If after a month you get the news that you're behind schedule, it's time to not up and do some shit. So I don't hate this approach. Most people don't have this luxury because they don't have like a bunch of people tending to them. They can't just assume they're on the right diet. You've been completing up to 18,000 steps per day. Yeah. You've been lifting five days a week. And now it's time for your first monthly weigh. Holy crap. You lost 20 pounds. What? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So if you think about it, roughly eight pounds a month, losing 20 in your first month is really good. However, a large fraction of that is water. Because when you start eating healthy and you stop overfilling your body, then obviously his sodium level almost certainly drop because typically to get this big, you have to eat a lot of sodium in your junk food. A lot of times that initial weight loss is maybe not largely water, but a lot of water. The real question is, what does mouth 23456 look like? Because people will do this. They'll lose a ton of weight in their first month and they'll go, oh my god, I'm going to lose 50 pounds by the end of the year. It slows down and sometimes in a huge way. What do we expect over the next 30 days from that? Over time, we're only going to decrease his calories, increases the activity and up his cardio. Holy shit, because of the resistance, the metabolism and the psychology form, the process gets exponentially more difficult. Even if you keep everything static, so if you keep exactly the same lifting, exactly the same eating, exactly the same activity, exactly the same added cardio, as you go through the year, the difficulty of the diet goes up exponentially. It's before you increase the difficult variables like physical activity and cardio. And decrease food. We're talking about a vertical line at some point of difficulty. That's going to be really tough. I'm really curious about that. So it's going to get harder with them as the video goes on. He is going to suffer. Yeah, for sure. We sing a morning, make breakfast, a walk my track, I'll play basketball. I don't like a lot of it's the same. It's literally how my days have been. This is it, bro, I'm really doing it and I love it. I love it. He's got him doing a lot of dumbbell work, a lot of machine work, a lot of good compounds, the lateral race technique is goded. He's got slightly bent arms to keep his elbows nice and comfy. He is actually like those are the 25s. He's pretty strong. Scott, this guy's looking, you know what I'm saying? He's doing it. Yeah. And way above parallel, really good control. This guy's my man. It's been over two months. Last way in, you wait three hundred three pounds. And now, badge weighs two hundred and eight pounds. Six pounds. Since the beginning of this challenge, you've lost 38 percent of your total weight. Where you going? You ran away. He crosses the red line. He's like, all I needed to know was that I could do this. I didn't really want to do it. That I honestly think at this point if man just doesn't overeat. And if he's really attentive to his diet and sticks to around that calorie amount average of the he's been consuming, he might actually make it just by coasting. Hopefully he doesn't get pushed too hard and have a relapse of rebound. Does happen. Every pushup you do, I will add a thousand dollars to your price school. $18,000. $18. That's zero. My, you're up to 20 grand. Oh yeah. Okay. $25. $26. Yeah, it's number. $25. $25. $25. $25. $25. $25. $25. Three reasons I would have given him zero dollar so far. A proper pushup begins at lockout. Your chest touches the ground with nothing else except your toes, your hands and your chest touching. No cock to the ground. And then you come all the way back up to lockout. That's one proper pushup. $25. $25. $25. $25. $25. $25. $25. $25. $25. $25. $25. $25. $25. The partial pushup from the top position. And then look yourself in the mirror after. What came next was the worst thing that's ever happened in one of my videos. Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my god. Scott, this is a joke for the purpose of the video, right? It's not, unfortunately. I thought the same thing. It's not playing. They kept it in. Yeah. Holy fuck. Yeah. Yeah, I got no jokes for that one. She's Christmachendoluses. Yeah. Coach Wall has a go-fun me for anyone who wants to have fun. Do you get less than or that? Me, yeah, description. Good God. Yeah. She didn't like that. She seemed like a good dude. Yeah, man. All right, continue to handle. She's. Over the next few days, visitors poured in to help process his grief while he contemplated the decision of continuing or stopping this video. Because ultimately, whether or not the video continues was up to him. Let's see what he was. He lost to our 50 pounds. Is he another 15? Well, this is day 100 and he lost the total of 50 pounds now. 50. 50 by day 100. That's a good clip. That's a good clip. Remember the exponential. But having 265 days left to lose 50 pounds is a pretty God damn good position to be if I were this a young man. What I would do is take a two month diet break at least where I lost no more weight. And I let my metabolism cool off. And then I would kick it into gear again. That would be the smart play. There are many smart plays. I think that would be the smartest. Let's see what he does. He's probably just going to keep going. Meaning, man, just officially halfway through the challenge. Do a mile in under eight minutes in 30 seconds. Dude, Scott, do we do not enough mini bonus surprise challenges on this channel? Yeah, I mean, you have to go over all the videos. And then you need all these little things along the way to keep people's interest. Right, because people have attention span problems. And they're like, but I'm bored now that the plot has been the same for 37 seconds. Yeah. It's like you have, it's like a lecture video for you. But then like the three seconds, then you do like a job going contest. Dude. Yeah, I guess that's where my off tangent stupid jokes that no one laughs at come in handy, Huscott. Yeah, I guess we do have that. Yeah, but just worse. And no one makes any money. It's half of your one mile time at the start of the challenge. I'll add another $25,000 to your price. Drive my first mile. Honestly, Scott, like, what do you think Mr. Beast is going to be doing? And like, 2035. Because I have a feeling it's going to be the same stuff, but because we're definitely going to be living in a dystopian Hellscape, future, whatever place. It's going to be the same show, except just you see that the green stuff just outside of that red line Scott land mines. There's the land mines for a million dollars. Now that's going to keep you watching 12. 12 minutes and 50 seconds. I don't have to pay. Means it has to shave by minutes. And you're going to be tough. 830 miles tough. There are two components to how easily you can run a mile. One is your body composition, like the leaner and smaller you are the easier to run. But two is your fitness for running the mile. And the best way to develop that is a running program. So unless he's really kicking it into gear running, it's going to be a real tough to run an 830 mile just off getting into regular better shape. You did an 8 minutes and 4 seconds. Oh, it's fast. Scott, this is too fast for me man. Like, do you think he's going to yes he did? But what about all he did that to? This challenge, right? Even they didn't even you win. And he loses. He stopped over the red line. He's gone. Folks, there is still more video to come. But if you were a member, there could be a lot more video to come. Because there is double the video length roughly for the extra unedited, unfiltered and frankly insanely offensive version of this video, you'll only find out the members at area. And you'll find other nerdy videos and vlogs and do you like to ****? All right, let's get back to the video. When you started, you were able to dead hang for six seconds and exactly 30 days. Wow, he does look a lot smaller, Huskah. Yes. It's a different person now. And a very surprised man in red jacket. Look at his face. He's like, why am I in this video? Who am I even? Maybe it doesn't help? And to the right comedian Andrew Shelts. For every second you can hang, I will give you $8,000. Scott, how come we don't make money like this man? That's a shame. Has anyone ever showed up to your house and said every second you can hang you've been a thousand oh no. I personally think you are. It's Jeffree Nippard from Jeff Nippard on YouTube. Amazing. What's he saying? Look at how big his arms are. I don't care what he's saying. He's handsome. Can do a pull up. I wanted to upload my whole entire life. Just once you're full of. If you can do it, I'll throw it in extra 10k. Yo, Jeff is breaded up out of his breaded up. Oh, macro factor. Jeff, you get in cheesy out here, my man. Hey, I'm saying we aren't texting terms. Why don't you set them off or up a little bit of cash? Jeff, matter of fact, I can do a few pull-ups. Can you throw an extra 10k for me? Jeff, does it look like we have money, bro? Look at this. I'm wearing an old fego t-shirt that I got from jiu-jie moofy. It was a gift. I can't even afford t-shirts. Jeff, please, bro. Please. Take your grip. Okay. And then this is going to really kind of shoot you up. Does that make sense? So it's giving you a lot of assistance. Okay. That's cool. Band assisted pull-ups are a cool way to enhance your pull-ups strength. They're not the best way. It was unfortunately there like easiest at the part where the pull-ups not super challenging. And they kick off and don't really help you when it is super challenging. So it's not an ideal thing. An assisted pull-up machine would be better. Lots of pull-downs and stuff would be better. But this is definitely a way to groove in and build up your confidence, build up some muscle, build them Subtechnique for pull-ups that eventually you can just do regular pull-ups by yourself. I'm so sorry. The main goal for me is to finish this. The 100 pounds and just make sure that the world can hopefully see a coach's impact. I'm pushing that hand. Oh. I wonder. Those look oddly similar to one of the greatest grip products in the world called the Versa grip. Because if you're doing pull-ups and rows and deadlifts and lateral raises, you'll notice that your hands have trouble holding onto the weight, which means your muscles that are actually trying to train like those of your back, your legs or shoulders don't get really close to failure. And that means they don't get the best results. So if you want amazing results for your whole body, you're going to want to take grip out of the equation in most of your lifting and which it's a problem. That's what Versa-Rips do exactly now. To be completely honest, one of the things we did after we developed Versa-Rips was put them to the test. Scott, you wouldn't believe this, but we put two Versa-Rips into their own underground bunker, which we fed them only cornflakes for a year. Cameras everywhere, excited show host. And guess what they did. They walked through that shell like it wasn't even there. They ate every single cornflake, flexing and everyone. And guess what, when we were like, hey, there's a day left. You're going to win the challenge. They're like, when this was never about winning, they looked up, powered up DBZ style, burst through the whole fucking bunker. It's just like rocks falling in and grass and gravel and it's just zoomed off into space. And we've never seen them since. Is it possible that your Versa-Rips will fly away from you after discovering both sentience and dragonball z powers? Corporate statement is unlikely. But we can't rule it out. Anyway, Versa-Rips, there's a link in the code to description, something like that. By them, and they'll probably be your friend once they gain ultimate power. And only three days, just really helped match improve his dead head. Which was not looking good for my tank account. This guy is an animal. There we go. Whoa. Wait. Oh, he's attached. Right? Yes, of course. Of course. Because I was waiting for like a pool. And then when I didn't see the pool, I was like, oh, yes. All right. That's really something I'm lying here. Scott, I'm being more but all jokes. He, um, he lets go and somehow they didn't calculate the momentum right. So he just jacks his chin on the metal. Oh, oh. That's that. Challenge over. Dekits. Five seconds. And match the little down. Look down. Oh my gosh. Does that scare you? Is that it all? Whoa. Oh, he's just dropping in and what's up? Oh my god. Big breath. And then you're going to drive as hard. Um, uh, mass max editing this. Yes. Max zoom in on Jeffries chest and arm. And then play the game. Jeffery. My god is looking unbelievable. And he also has a suitcase that federal authorities would identify as definitely a cash suitcase. Typical Canadian. Art is you can chest to the bar. Let's go. Wow. Wow. Oh, no. Wow. Wait, three. Wait, he doesn't even hold it. He doesn't even hold. He doesn't even hold. Oh. Oh. Oh. Take good beam out of the last day. It's crazy. Six months, half here. Over these six months. Match last is daily colloric intake by 600 calories. Decreased his fat mass by over 50%. He also did 3,955 push-ups. It made 17,600 fat small shots. And oh, this technique is good. I want to see magic and Jeffrey go out and pass it all. That's what I want to see. Oh, by the way, Jeff, in case you didn't see a video, we already posted about that. Stop playing and accept my challenge to one on my basketball job. But it honestly in your own personal best interest, don't accept because. Scott, remember when I played professionally in Europe? I do remember. Yeah, you do remember. According to his doctor, if he keeps this up, you will have extended his lifespan by around five years. Yeah, and even that might be an understatement. This is cool stuff. And now there's a crowd. What's going on? We're going to do something a little different and jump forward in time to show you his full transformation. Here it is. After half a year. Right? Oh, dude, Scott, that beard is just glorious. I love it. Yeah! How many other results? Oh, wow. Wow. He did it. Day 178. So like halfway through, he didn't. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. That young man Scott has the same blank facial expression as always. He's dead inside. Okay. Let's go! 178 days in this circle. Take your hand off your eyes. Hey, run, check family out. Oh, wait. Happy to be honest, family. His family in $470,000, you won. Okay. There's a drone there, is he under attack? Also, they let him see his family before he got his beard done. Because his beard's back. Yeah, they jumped ahead. Oh, I see. That like they said they would. Yeah. I'm an idiot. Let's go! Let's go! Let's go! You guys, that was really wholesome. Hopefully we learned something. Basically, it's possible to accomplish this sort of thing. He did phenomenal work. Truly massive credit to match. Massive credit to his coach. And just really, really wonderful stuff. Good dieting, diligence works really well. For a long term, keep him in the way to off. It's actually much easier, but you have to have those sustainable habits. High level of physical activity 10,000 steps a day. Consistent resistance training. And making sure to eat most of your meals healthy. And if you wake, scoots up by five or six pounds. Do two weeks of clamping down on the diet to get it. This is too tough. And then you're kind of indefinitely and really, really good shape. So massive respect, this is great. And Scott is a very wholesome Mr. Beast video. Wasn't it? Yeah, great. Mr. Beast? Uh, look. Folks, I give Mag a 10 out of 10 for honor and courage and excellence. And a 100 out of a lot of money for being the fucking man. And also Jeff Nipperd was in the video, which was nice to see. In any case, I've been Dr. Mike. And we will see you guys in the next time. Woo! Folks, that was something. And I feel quite beastly myself. Are you feeling beastly too? Click on this video and maybe the beastliness will continue. See you next time.

What's up, man? Oh, Hallie, how are you? How are you? No, you're almost left in a free world, but next to me, how are you? I'm not a mother, hurr, Hallie. He's a good rom-z little man or whatever kind you like, man. Well, he insulted me again, Scott. He folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. I've been a longtime professor of exercise and sports science, Brazilian Jutsu Black Belt. And I have a competed and will compete in the future in bodybuilding. What the hell are you doing, man? Wait, you're heads up! Get down on the ground! Get down on the ground! Get down on the ground! So, I've been compliance with orders. Wait, what was it taking me so far off? Hey guys, I'm back. Due to a few misunderstandings, I went to prison. And I met a lot of fun friends and I got crazy hardcore prison tattoos. I'm in a gang now, which is really fun. I just just a lot of friends. And I was able to work out a little bit. And I gleaned so much insight. I didn't just want to share it with you. I wanted to review prison workouts and see if we can learn a little bit something extra. So, three, two, one. It's jail time. Hey, it's Callie Mussel. This was your first influence on YouTube for training. It was, it was the first thing I saw. It was this and a high-green cookie with all the burners on. Yes. This is like the first two things I saw. You're like, okay, how to get checkered. I got it. Good, this is weird. I finally had Jack to have to heat myself up and be black. One of those actually will get you jacked. So I'm going to show you what I used to do for ladies. So, you said I got my books. Yeah, this how we do it. See I get these books. That's what books are for. All right. All right. I'm curious. This is one of the pounds. No, it's not. You just curl that with one hand. Always you're going to extend it. No. Do some laying a stand just to right here. Okay. I got to, I got to, at the top, you're going to feel the full weight of that. At the bottom, you basically feel nothing because the weight completely unloads. The opposite of the force curve that you want. I would say in exercise that is better than the lightest sensors and every conceivable way, would be speedsquats and reverse the Nordic curls or Nordic extensions. Is there sometimes called? Those we can throw in some video of people doing them, and I think they're just like superior. I will say, though, you gotta get creative and prison because there's just about a whole lot going on. And you can't just do the same exercise all the time. So, this is actually very, very clever. and John or Gly. It was Scott. He just used the onward. He did. Well, I'm lying. We're not pillow out here. Let's go cream on ourselves. What the f**k? All right. She'll come on us. Oh, my. Excuse me, sir. Yes. Well, I believe that my legs are so, so enhanced, musculosently, during my time in prison, that your significant other of female sexual dimorphism is going to be inclined to ejaculate all over herself upon the mere sight of my quadriceps. I've been Callie Muscle. Thank you so much. Folks, all jokes aside, prison is a terrible place. I don't wish it on my worst enemies. And since I am now a cripple, but I don't want to be biased, we had to cut the bloods some slack. How do we do it? We have a Versa grip. New, special edition that's a red colored. How and why is it red colored? Why is because we wanted to honor the great gang that is the bloods? Because I'm crippled out. I got to be blooded out as well and hashtag Team Orange. I don't know anything about ganged clearly. I'm just an idiot. However, all jokes aside, the way we got these Versa grips to be read by how you think. How you think? Which thing? Dip in blood. No, not human blood. That's ridiculous. Remember, Versa grips are made of a combination of exotic materials from space and the entirety of a goat. So we simply transferred some goat blood into an extra container and the Versa grips were done. We dipped them in. It's goat blood only, which is approved by our 100%. Kind of inspiration source here at Versa grips, Satan himself. Oh, you can get these Versa grips. They're limited time offer. So go click around or links because we'll share a shit half something for you. Talk to about 10 sets of 20 at all. Then I come here. At my, I got a human body. That got real. See that? Come here. Buh. Buh. Oh yeah. Okay. A zurture squats basically. Not terrible. What I would say is just sling it behind you and then hold hand one hand out for balance and do full depth squats. Another cool trick to do if you don't have a lot of equipment is squat to full depth, weight for two seconds at the bottom at the very most stretch position. Come up only two thirds of the way up and then slowly come down, weight at the bottom, two thirds up. When you can't do that anymore, stand up, lock out, take a breather, maybe switch the bag to the other shoulder and keep going. A few rounds like that when big matter upset, you'll get your quads up. It's way better than doing half squats, eye promise. Use the lunges, butt. Butt, butt, butt. Shit. That was cool. The step up is a fine idea. Again, the lunges are probably good to do them super deep. And with the lunges, I think you can use the extra weight. So get that bag of books on you as well. Yeah? Yeah? Do you kiss it? 50 a cat. That toilet is ready to break open, Scott isn't it? Or is it metal and can't be broken? I think this is like a prop. So prop. So prop is plastic. Oh, that's for sure, gonna break. One leg at a time, calf raise is brilliant because it's enough weight for you to really feel something. Two legs of time is good and, because he's standing on the edge of the toilet, he is getting a really good stretch. So real sure, we're a sharp real smart. You guys need to learn how to monotask. Oh, is that that one guy? That fake motherfucker who lies about being rich and shit like that? Lots of questions. Less Watson, my man. All right, let's find out what he's been to prison a lot according to himself. Draw it over the place. Reason a man he's getting shaped in the penitentiary isn't because he has more time. He has more focus. So his time and his energy are utilized correctly. You guys are drifting in the future. Thinking about a past event. You're never in the present. The penitentiary forces you to be present. It makes you monotask. Well, he got me in there for a second. Okay, I'm back. So next time you can work out, we'll truly focus on each rep. Truly visualize that man that you're building, that man that deserves a better life. That was inspirational, right, Scott? Look, it's true. If you have a lot of time to spend and you're not much else to do, working out is absolutely great. Reinforces all the right values, putting in hard work, delay, gratification, pushing through suffering, dedication, organization, systematizing things. That's all stuff that's really going to help me on the outside. I wish Wes Watson wasn't saying it. Even the broken clock is right several times a day. And that's right, I work close. His random and word use is hilarious. He didn't have to say it, but he did. Is that a butterfly tattoo? Or him and I in the same game? Oh, very well. This is a kind of shit you get killed for saying, right? Like mocking gangs and shit like that. Damn. All lovers back, Kelly must all jokes. Because you see up in here, we'll need you no prints. All right, okay. Leaning into their criminal lifestyle, I see. The gloves, I don't get. Here's why I used to wear lifting gloves when I first started. It gave me functionally the same calluses, but also made my hands really stinky, because gloves are disgusting. I just don't think lifting gloves do anything is what I'm saying. My other partner go to Goats. And they tell me no grunt. Oh, bitch, go moose, you getting... That's true. That's true. Sometimes, my girls always look at me blankly for minutes. And then ask, is it in yet? Is that the same thing as grunting? Are they still having fun? I think it's going to run if he busted that. Yes, sir, you're not supposed to be busting nuts at the gym, though. That's not a retort. And I put the grunt without working. Fuck you, Jim. I could understand how Cali muscle ended up in prison being highly disagreeable and aggressive. This is all started to make sense. But Scott, look at his deltvanes. Dude, he's on Billy and Lily Jack. This is one of those things, like, because you see it back in the day, and you think you must remember, like, had Norton, you know, in American history, yes, not Jack. Now he's 150 pounds. Yes. You go back and you're like, oh my God. Damn, you appreciated even more now. I'm not trained right to gain muscle. The RP hypertrophy app removes all uncertainty and makes the training process precisely defined. Choose your pre-made workout plan from dozens of available on the app, plug in your weights, and the app takes care of the rest for months of productive training. Ready? Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. That's where you want to pass. Yeah, you see this? Oh, cool. You see that, I'm saying. I mean, how did he get access to a bamboo bar? Isn't that a weapon? He's got a cooler. He's got two spotters. He's like a powerlifting meat. Scott, does it look to you like he's in the bathroom? Maybe you're a laundry room? Longer room. Put laundry sacks in there, smart, real smart. Also, full range of motion, which is great, good control. He's got his feet up, which I just don't like, because it destabilizes you, and it's worse for your chest and triceps, and doesn't really do much for your core. It's like a circus trick on wrong. So if you put his feet down, this would be really good. Scott, me disrespecting a whole lot of prison workouts means I'm getting shank real fun. And so I got nothing to say, Matt, if it happens, it happens. No, I know me, but we get money. I got money out here, you feel me? Damn. That's the best part about lifting is getting up off the bench and swagging. Scott, look at that swag phase. He's got it. With me now. I'm a deer, he's got it all with you. It's my strength. And he's got the physique to show it off, my man. It's what he has to make up. What's that smoke? Folks, let me get you a quick tip. This might not resonate, but when you're talking shit to the camera, if everyone talks at the same time, no one is hurt. So if you have to talk smack, maybe line up in a line and talk that shit and sequence, it could get a lot more shit talking across. We've been trying to make sure you have the link. Yeah, yeah. Oh, shit. Oh, dude. Yeah, what? You know, oh, my gosh. You made it. There's only one great African race. Back guy is not at anything you call shape, but he can do gymnastics just for five's alone, man. This guy could be a person who trains and I'm a man one year in turns pro and beats a shit out of a lot of really good fighters. That's just called talent. We got a word for it. God damn. And I'll also tell you this, man. There's a couple different ways you can roll in prison using your time to hang out with homies and to work out and bettering yourself. That's such a good idea. So all this aside, just bullshitting for laws, a matter of respect to all these guys men trying their best. Men drive their shit beats to many statements about themselves. Is that why men drive as you use God? This is real bad. OK. Women care. It's not an impact to make the statement about themselves. But real mom can have muscle. Where does your body say about you? That's all what you do. Say about your body. Don't worry about your time. Y'all are constantly buying exotic work out equipment for figuring out 99 and not using it. And every time you look at that piece of equipment, sitting in your bedroom, calling you, saying to yourself, so constantly I'm worth nothing because you're not committing to a process that you began. Do this is some CT flechotype wisdom. This is hard, bro. And they got a picture of like Arthur in the back. I love every part of this man. It's true, too. Like a lot of people like what they never used. It's heavy to know his side. OK. It's negative and positive work. Damn. While I'm working back on them, the tricep, the tail, is working. It's bicep. Y'all, this is creative and it works. First of all, they're getting constant tension, which is dope. Second of all, they're both getting a great workout, which is dope. Third of all, if you're kitten two birds with one stone, because they could just superset this and flip back and forth, the guy sitting down right now could stand up and vice versa, Scott, you got to say, this is creative. It's a good one. This is awesome. Now what we have here will be some of you. His world, you little bit. That's not your thing. You're positive. I guess this, OK, barely. That very well. He's defining the tricep back on 100%. So it was just getting second, very well, OK. 100%. On 10, you'll notice that his wrist is turned over, with the structure. It's chopping up the muscle at a certain angle. Chopping it up. It was biceps and it's great. And actually, big Tim is using a lot of lower back to make sure he doesn't fall forward. So that's actually true. If we kill this, get a close up of this, this beautiful all might be. Oh, all right. We're going to always get to know each other a little bit. I'm feeling that. It should be a straight line across from hell, but it's my, for my elbows, because they are both on the you block out Tim. Now I'm pulling it, you resist. Do. Make sure they feel even on both. This is so sharp. Huge, full range of motion. Because it's dual towels. You can't even really do this in a cable because you'll hit yourself in the back of the head. This is so smart. The thing is, you got to get somebody to train with you, which sometimes is hard, but if you have a homey and prison that's going to train with you, man, this is dope. I love this. Why do you pull them? I was this. Why I pull? He was this. And remember, the other person resisting while the other person pulls isn't a thing where you're like, well, I guess I have to do it because my training partner, the eccentric, the negative, is hugely growth promoting even more so. So in this exercise, at all times during this movement, both guys are getting the best possible workout, which is true to say about prison workouts and about prison showers. Am I allowed to make that joke? All of respect. What's up, man? Oh, hell yeah. Holy muscle here. No, y'all, man. Without getting free world, but nice to meet you. I need to get these big ass muscles. I'm not a mother, girl, Kelly. Okay, fine, I am. So you bust these up here. You're doing good, wrong, a little matter, whatever kind of you like, you love me. Well, he insulted me again, Scott. Fuck. I'm not, I'm gonna go, and the real man needs to more. Ooh, the said would look at it. What else do you want to swallow? I'm a gay, five pounds of raw muscle. Raw muscle. He means water. You don't gain five pounds of raw muscle from eating a highly salty food with lots of carbs. Oh, yeah, the sodium count on this. You look at that, $4,000,000. Oh, yeah, that good for if you have salt-sensitive, five-blood pressure issues. Which many African-Americans do so? He fed a mind. Then we got protein, levard, ram, type, two. That's 22 grams of good protein. That's true. Good. Okay. Uh, yeah, tuna's great. If you eat it all the time, and it's a certain type, Mercury or whatever, but you're in present here, I'm saying you gotta do what you gotta do. You know what I'm doing to you and Jayle, put his voice down. Fuck. That's canned oysters, my bad luck. What would a racial slur do to me in jail to acquire canned oysters? I assume forced sex acts, Scott, is that correct? I think he says he'll murder you. Oh, that's even worse. My God. Well, I hope he enjoys his oysters at least. But when you eat him, you go have to have one of them, jack-off books. Do you think his voice is more, how you go? Oh, they're like a libido enhancer. Scott, what's a jack-off book? I don't know, maybe we could speculate on it, for a second. Is it an adult? It's a different thing to different people to be honest. Is it literatica? Emily slowly unsheathed her dress, and duly and found this both provocative and confusing, as her shimmering skin hit the light, like that. More of 50 shades of gray, man, myself. Emily was tied up squealing like a piglet, who William was urinating all over her face. It is the sensation of his warm urine that made her puff up downstairs. We're getting canned for this for sure. Folks, there is still more video to come, but if you want to see an extra underrated extra uncut, extra citi prison gang violence version of this video, we have it for you in our member section. We have other tons of science content and flaw content. You can see my training, Jared Feather, I'd be pro, blah, blah, blah, jared Feather, I'd be pro's training, and all that really good stuff. Give it a click. Let's get back to the video. That's why I'm so slow. I'm getting the loomies. Six thousand and nine grams of sodium a day. Folks, six thousand and nine grams of sodium a day isn't gonna make you any more swallowing any number of other milligrams as long as you're getting enough sodium. And a somewhere between 2004,000 milligrams was really good for most athletes that are training really hard. You could experiment with the higher sodium to see if that's a long-term thing for you. Watch your blood pressure. If you're just carrying a bloat all the time, it's not gonna get you any more jacked. So just, but that does look like a fun treat to have. All right, what do I see about this? Two things. One, my personal view on prison is that for repeat offenders, which are the overwhelmingly represented people that do crime, we need to have significantly longer prison sentences. But at the same time, I think that prisons should be substantially more humane than they are now, which means access to really good nutritious foods, almost certainly access to very, very good gym equipment. So it access to reading materials and entertainment materials so that people don't feel sharper and more brutalized coming out of prison. They just may be me feel slightly bored but have every opportunity to batter themselves. And I think the number one thing of the hardcore criminals that need to be in prison, the number one thing effect wise is just keeping them off the street. So the prison time has to be long, but I think supplying folks with the right kinds of nutrition and the right kinds of training, the right opportunities for extra curricular activities is really important because I think that just makes them at arguably not worse humans than maybe slightly better humans because exercise when you're training can reinforce a lot of really good habits. A lot of people complain every now and again that when convicts get out of prison, they're so jacked that they're a bigger trouble for the police. And I hear that, but at the same time, I think letting people and undergo organized physical activity probably let offsets that by making more of them just more likely to be productive citizens and better people. In addition to that, if you're the police, you should be spending a huge fraction for time getting as big, strong, and combat ready as possible anyway. And the ultimate backup, which is taser and handgun. Too much politics for an episode I know, but in all in all, I'm really impressed with people's creativity. I think that while you're being creative, you still need to think about overloads as some exercises look like they're a good idea or underloaded fundamentally. They don't have a lot of tension of the structure. They just don't have enough tension at all and you can't really take them to failure in a rep range that's less than 30. Yeah, learned a lot. Cali muscles the man. He could be a standup comedian anytime. And other than that, you know, I guess I technically was born in the Soviet Union so up until I was seven years old, I live in that prison of sorts. So it's actually fits quite nice. In any case, tell me if I had a blood or a crib with this thing on. I'd be one of the other by this point. Folks, I'm gonna go get stabbed to death and shanked 80 times in a prison gig scenario and I'll see you next time. What the fuck? Woo, that was fun. Many of these people, let's all meet critique them. We'll probably be finding me in the street and stabbing me to death so until I die from eventual street stabbing, maybe this video will keep you company. See you next time.

And this is what Petipi could go down. Double the distance and get way more gains. With my perfect form, okay? I don't want to hear anyone complaining about my form. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pre-Duration. And I also happen to be a professor of exercise and support science at Lehman College in the Bronx in New York City. Man, New York City. Merci. What? Why did I court over to 20's guy in girl? I'll tell you why. Because we're going to be reviewing Mr. Pewdiepie's workout. I don't know his relationship to the 20's. I thought that joke would materialize better than it did. But you see, Pewdiepie is a person on the internet who doesn't turn that things. But he recently got pretty f***ing jack and ripped. I'm going to see if the way he got there is most efficient or least efficient or probably new asses of summer between. Let's find out. Hello everyone. Today we're going to go through my epic workout. He's not from America. Scott, the video guy, where's Pewdiepie from? Pewdiepie. I'm from the country as a sweet agent. No, I am also a magnet. And then my freak time and I'm a new Pewdiepie. And I have a Viking sword and Hugh Mungus, you two follow. And I'm like, tour, but with more followers and more relevant. Today is the issues. I love the accent. I can't get enough of it. If you're Nordic, I want to hear you talk that shit in your beautiful gorgeous amazing accent. And I'm not just talking about the ladies. I'll bet you find us. Hell up there. The men send me the men. Oh, look, Pewdiepie. He's a man from the countries of North. Let's see what he has to say here. So you also can look epic. Game of Thrones. Huh. The screen went red. He was angry. Hopefully you're some anger in the gym. First off, let's go through my setup. My workout setup, which is the same Goddamn setup that I've always had. And here's my gym setup. Whoa, that's low budge. I thought this motherf*** was making like a trillion dollars an hour on YouTube. Respect for not spending your money on dumb shit like gym equipment. What do we got? Universal dumbbells. Those are always a good investment, by the way. Pug, great dog for a training partner. Doesn't give a shit. We'll fall asleep. We'll bother you. Bench. That's it. You can get pretty decent shape like that training lags this tough. But the recommendation of goblet squats, he elevated squats, dumbbells deflegged dead lifts, and lunges. You can actually get pretty jack legs too. The upper body is super easy to train if you just have that setup. So let's see what he did. The only difference now is that I'm in our living room. That's all you need, baby. I trains in a living room. Oh, he moved it from the garage. I used to use weights, cold power block. Power blocks excellent. I have only good things to say about the power block. My workout is pretty much more or less the same as I used to. Exciting. I've only changed up a couple of things here and there. I think I used to do five days a week. Guys, I'm noticing a trend here. Everyone who makes lots of money on YouTube has a gaming chair, which brings me to my next point. Scott, the video guy, you equipped this studio in which we work in its entirety. Where the f*** is my gaming chair? I have no full-net studio. They're generally a little bit harder though. I know that you don't like it hard. I do like it hard from the back, but mostly the bottom. Am I right? Do you guys know what I mean about that? I want to be very clear. I mean that I like consensual gay sex. Hey guys, if you like that and you want more, I don't know why you would. I'm judging you already. We have a member section with extended unfiltered raw triple x rated cons. What? So you guys there? I start off. Mike most people. Oh my god. I didn't know he was this good looking. Scott, how dare you not prepare me for this. Just the way he like casually flips his hair. It's no big deal, but I've got the fool head of hair. And I hope that that's what Dr. Mike is jealous. He is jealous Pewdiepie, that you know that I exist or anything. Got a start up with chess. It's the base. Did you say base? I was trying to make his accent sound worse than it is, or more extreme rather because it's a good accent. And I failed because it's even more extreme at times. Nothing wrong with starting with chess. It's all a bro in us. Me I'd like to have a few bro's in me at the same time. The thing with dumbness is they're quite hard to get up. Like to get to the... Scott? His chair reclines almost fully. Try and apply now. I see if that's... It feels like a different place here now. That's not fully. Get me a fucking gaming chair, Scott. Fuck. I was so proud when I hit that. Yeah, okay. So this isn't terrible technique. Ideally we would like to see Mr. Pewdiepie go down slower and get a much deeper stretch and because it's tough to get a deep stretch with the doubles being that big and they're just on a hitting your chest. Either as he goes down he should rotate into neutral or he should have them at neutral the entire time so they can get significantly below his chest. Stop for a second or two down there. Really open up that chest. Get a huge stretch. Trust me, you will feel it. And then come back up. I definitely been pushing myself more. I try to push myself to the point where I was like, okay, here I am. One more rant. If I could do one more rant, there will be world peace and everyone will be happy. That is excellent training motivation. I use that daily. So I do chest. I do incline chest. Chest is a muscle group. Not an exercise. It is called a press. I'm being a pedantic asshole. Just for more content at this point. Which is good to you. And then I do Scott. I'm f***ing. After that I do shoulders. Which wins when you're already tired from chest. Yeah, the technique is okay. Again, he could go slower on the way down. He could go deeper for a big stretch. You actually want to touch the inside of the dumbbell to the outside of your front belt. That's a huge, big mega stretch at the bottom. That would mean you have to use less weight. Better for your joints, better for your muscular development. But what he's doing isn't bad at all. And also like shoulder pressing in general for physique development purposes. As long as you're doing chest pressing at a flat and incline angle is just way overrated and way overused. Plan and simple. Oh yeah. And then after that I do a superset where I combine, oh yeah, look at that. Bees, I don't know what they're calling. They're called tricep kickbacks. They are a terrible exercise. Because muscles grow best when at the deep stretch, you have the most external load imposed or the most internal load. And at the contraction, the least. Kickbacks at the bottom, gravity, there's an even affecting them. So you get nothing. And then at the top it gets harder and harder and harder. And while you feel the tricep contracting significantly, it's just not an ideal movement. It does it work. Yes. Is it close to the best movement? No. A better movement would be to take the dumbbells on any channel, lie down on the bench, and bend at the elbows to touch either your face or to outside of your ears. You can do a neutral grip. You can do it regular grip. Either way, it's going to fry your triceps. Way, way, way, way better. The kickback is, it's an exercise that just wish we would die and go away. Kind of like my mom told me my whole life until I moved out. She'd say shit like, why are you still here? Who are you? She'd yell at me and throw pots and pans. I was five. And then lateral raises, I guess, like that. Like I was guessing about what exercise did you do? But I tried to make it into one set. Do you some technique? Again, folks rushing daddy's centric. You get up there. You're milking out a ton of muscle growth stimulus if you go slower on the way down. Get up quick, slow on the way down. I finally come to a point where I'm more comfortable pushing myself before if I ever felt like I'm pushing myself so I could almost throw up, which can happen. I think especially when you're building muscle, they can happen even easier than you think. I have thrown up a lot in training. There. One of the reasons people throw up is because they're so untrained. They're circular-tory systems are underdeveloped. They're cardiovascular systems underdeveloped. That's definitely a reason people throw up. But if you get sufficiently big and strong, you can throw up just because your muscles produce so much waste product that your body's due to something needs to go and you start vomiting. That's at least why I tell myself I throw up after the gym. It's not because of my body image issues. I was supposed to promote the new G-field tub. Like I had sawson. I drink every day. That's the kind of organic influence or promotion we pay good money for a supplement company. Jesus Christ. 10% muscle increase of course. That's false. But you got to promote. You got to promote. It's not a pretty workout. It's just epic drink. Epic gamer drink. What? It's not a pretty workout. It's just an epic gamer drink. I'm confused as to what it does. Does it make you better at video games? If so, by what mechanism? Moving on to the next day number two. Two stay more Tuesday look bloody. Holy shit. Like day makes sense. And do squat. We maximize muscle growth by getting deep into a stretch position. So PDPI could go down double the distance and get way more gains. With my perfect form. Okay. I don't want to hear anyone complaining about my form. Like is this weird thing where while I'm doing it, I'm not that tired. But as soon as I stop, I'm just like, I need to sit down. Oh god. Uh. Lysel. What I always like to say is. You can work out your upper body, but you train your legs. It's a process for sure. No one likes like Dave. Hmm. Some of us masterkistic weirdos love like Dave. Matter of fact, I just did like Dave today. Loved every minute of. If you like like Dave, you're lying. Okay. Oh, I appreciate you. How dare you. White glove. Slap. Slap. Put white glove back on. Champagne glass. Sip. After that lift, I do the split squat thing. Lungess. That's it. Look, he turned into a man of at least half African descent. Outdoors in excellent work out a tire. Strange. Three sets of that. And then I do the calf raises where you go on your toes. Blabbling, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And I'm pretty much done. You know, I don't, I'm not that, you know, legs. Yeah, sure. It's done. Yeah. If you're into just having like bro muscles, like a classic guy's physique. Legs are overrated. I'll be the first person to say that. I love having big legs, but it's definitely a thing in and of itself. It's a legs you do for the soul. I find myself to be with work at it. So easy to make excuses for yourself. Like, oh, I'm a bit tired today or on yesterday. I had blah blah blah or today was a long day or blah blah. One thing I had that really, really helps is my watch because I can time my sets. If you have the RPI Perch of the app, we'll make sure you're progressing on track, monitoring, and adjusting your workout at all times. So for all that work you're doing, you can be sure you're getting the best results. It tracks your weight and your reps and your sets and gives you low green check marks to press. And it says, finish workout. Congratulations. Would you like to see your next day? Oh, I love it so much. I even made it myself. I try to use my phone. I try using an app to time my red. I mean, you're rust is largely a waste of time. Scott, is there any way we can link that video? Yeah. Let's do it. Another thing I do is I drink pre-work out sometimes. I even drink G-fuel just because I know G-fuel is not a pre-work out. What the f*** is G-fuel? Here's why I know so far. It's not a pre-work out. It's a video gamer juice. I thought video gamers are powered exclusively by mountain dew and Doritos. Then on day four, I start off a little bit slower again, where I do pulls. And the great thing about the f*** was that picture. Animation budget is falling all the way through this video. I'm working out at home as I can be shirtless. Woo. That ass. Anyway, I assume there's an ass underneath those baggy pants. A man can dream. And it's not cringe. Oh, God, what is that? Yeah. That is a dumbbell bentro with one sixth of the range of motion. But you should be using. Folks at home. Hinge at your hips. Bend your knees a little bit to hinge even further, so that your ass goes too parallel with the ground as possible. While your lower back isn't rounded. So flatten out that back. Hinge at your hips and your knees just a little bit to get nice and deep. And you should feel tension in your hamstrings in the back of like that old time. Then when you're in that position, you stay there. Fixed. Do not move your legs and torso at all. Let your arms fully stretch you at the bottom. And then fully come up at the top to try to touch the dumbbells to just below your shoulders. And then all the way back down nice and slow. That is a dumbbell bentro that'll be really, really good and worthwhile. This, he's got to cause some back growth, but my god, that's a short range of motion. And a deeper stretch is king in the hypertrophy world. I start off with single arm rows. Then I do two arm rows. Then I do overhead extension. Back and try steps very well. And then I do two double arm rows, but reverse grip. Then I do biceps and then I do hamacurals. Hamacurals are a humongous waste of time for most people. They hit the muscles of the form and the upper arm that are hit by every other row that you could do pretty well. I might add. So having the palm face up and curling like that is probably 90% of the time going to be superior. It's kind of hard to finish up with bicep and hamacurals because you're kind of tired at that point. But I find to really elevate my work at is my Spotify playlist, or I listen to a bunch of like industrial techno or. In Sweden we only listen to the finest music. We don't listen to the look at this first song is called World Sponets by Mickey Istreffy. That the mean he's an order to person, Mick Gordon, which is probably not that good. This sounds like an Anglo person, not very hardcore. Like metal or metal. God, I could listen to that all day. Oh, that Nordic tongue. Hmm. Oh, that sounded weird. I'm sticking to it. I like it either way. That's another accidental thing I said that has two meanings. I do like it either way. It sounds so cringe, but what's your there? Doing those bicep curls and that hit war. Why does it sound cringe? Folks pause. The number one way to sound cringe is to accuse someone. Anyone in any circumstance of being cringe. Do you know what's embarrassing? Being f***ing embarrassed on your shit. I used to listen to like podcasts and maybe you to video sometimes. It's like whatever in the background. And I don't think that makes you as focused as when you if you put on music that you really like. It really motivates you and like I'm really happy that he draws the world. It's like that he drew us the world's worst chart to illustrate that. That being said, it good music is great. I personally don't listen to a lot of music under a most circumstances when I'm training because I'm already crazy. Ben, actually I do my pole exercises. They five. I like that pole exercises was a picture of him pushing. Hmm. I used to do leg on day five. I like leg just one leg. In Sweden, we don't have the plural. So it leg only leg. How many leg do you have? I just have leg. Folks, do you want me to play video games and commentate on it? Is that somewhere you'll find me useful? What's it called? Twitch? Should we do Twitch? Let us know in the comments below. Hold on, hold on. I'll give you a preview. Oh, see? I can twitch. It sounds so crazy. It's sometimes I do can though. But you have found to be a really fun kind of cardio to be honest. It kind of tires you out pretty well and it's fun to try out something different. This is like when you're 14 and you have a place or something, you do this and you're bedroom and your mom yells. Go to sleep at 10 o'clock. Before that, I used to do other stuff as well as jumping jumping. Where's the call jumping rope? How old are you? Plays video games, sword fighting, jump rope, trains with dumbbells at home. Scott, I was in the impression that there's a multi-millionaire ultra successful business person. I do a workout that says sort of a combination of the entire week except leg of course because leg is cringe. That whole several sentences hurt my soul. I will continue on for you the viewer. I do chest, I do shoulder, I do bicep, I do all the epic stuff. Epic dumbbell at home shoulder workout is epic. I thought Epic was when you like walked 100 miles through the cold and bare feet bleeding out of your f***ing souls to save the only one woman you've ever loved in destroy whole army. But apparently that ladder thing is a typical day in Sweden and you know, funny enough because we're actually epic people that are the descendant of Vikings. What we really think of as epic in the modern world is training the bicep and shoulder on the same strong day, they six. No substances, no steroids, steroids. Mother f***er, what do you mean no substances? What the f*** is in G fuel? We know it's not pre-workout. Must be steroids. Alright, that was cool. Truth be told with all total respect. I've never seen a video of PewDiePie before. I like to play the video games like Mario Brothers. Instead of watching other people play them, but I've heard he's cool and is my first exposure to him and he's not only handsome and has an amazing accent but it also seems just like a really decent reasonable person. And you know what, that's a 10 out of 10 in my book, for just winning it life. And PewDiePie, wherever you are, please continue to know that when the cold nor the twins blow on your face, that I was gonna say something about blowing on faces, but it wouldn't be nice. A warm wind blows through my heart for you. Namaste. And I'll catch you guys next time. Alright, if you liked that video, write over here, click on this one. The YouTube algorithm assures us you like it too. See you guys next time.

Oh, Scott, I've never seen this. Oh, yeah. He's basically touching his clavicles in the screenshot here. Oh my god, it's like a belted leg extension. Low incline Smith machine Gio-Teen Press. Yeah, if you're having trouble growing your chest, doing some of this art all stuff is I think a really, really good idea. Hello. I'm Arnold, that's right. I'm your favorite. And even though I'm considerably shorter and bolder than my face looks really weird, I'm still talking like me and that you know it's me. And guess what? I've got all sorts of videos you've might never seen before. They're little archive footage is, no, they're my great Italian. They've got the video guy. He broke in to the congressional library to steal this footage. No, that would be legal. But he did it for you and that's and now he's in jail. But good news, we still got the footage. Let's look at it. Let's talk about it. Oh, and one more thing. Yeah, I know the eye. This is gonna be a long video. It's a long video, you guys. Anyway, we're gonna look at cool Arnold footage that we haven't seen before. I'm Dr. Mike, I'm a professor. Something I think. Anyway, let's get to it. Yeah, listen, I want to exercise in which I can really improve my ability to back and slap somebody. Yeah, shout-up. Oh, you just like, yeah. This is the kind of exercise that the bros today be like, man, science-based, f*** these are f***ing reinvading the wheel. Runny Coleman just stared at a wall and his delts grow. It's a dope exercise. It offers a, what the hell's going on? Arnold lying down. It's got next to what looks like an old bed frame. You know? I love the old gym equipment in this house. I don't even know what that was for. All right, the lie is that there, it's awesome. And so what you end up having is he's lying down and avenged something you can do yourself. And he's lengthening the deltoid substantially, but still under load. And then coming up and getting all the way to the point of the top where there is no load on the muscle and all the way back down, this allows is one of these rare exercises that allows you to train your side-doubt and your rear-doubt at a stretch, which means a bigger stimulus. Eh, try it. Some people really like it. And Arnold kind of doing a little bit but, realistically, you might try to be a little bit more controlled the way down. Nice and quick on the way up a little bit more controlled. You can try this exercise and it's damn good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Because screaming at me is, you're the best Arnold. You shot stupid bullshit fake professor with your giant head and what happened to your ears. Yeah. You're a freak. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. It's got as promised, right? Low incline, Smith machine, guillotine press. I don't know what you guys know about the French Revolution but I know almost nothing. What I do know is that they employ the guillotine to do one of two things. One is executions of leaders that prove to be not good enough to lead the new French state and two execution of the guillotine Smith machine press to give some of those French leaders the biggest upper packs of all time. My God, it's got a very not well-known fact about the French Revolution is people were just stacked up, bro. Oh, I didn't know that. To leave Lefonce in hold on a sec, I have to balance a coffee cup and my upper deck imminal. Classic line said often in France by real French people. This is a really great exercise especially if you control that way to the bottom and gently touch. It allows a very safe range of motion that zaps the out of your upper packs by stretching the meton and being at a sliding line. It's also been shown that a low incline like this gives probably some of the best overall pack activity for the whole packed arouser exercise. The careful easing into this on your own if you want to try it because that high incline position with the high clavicles and the really flared elbows can be a little weird for the shoulders and the packs start nice and light. Something you can comfortably do 15 reps with. Do like 12 or 13 instead of 15 do it for a few sets. Come back a week later, put a little bit more weight on the bar. Maybe add a rubber tube and just keep going like that. How about we do a 15 on this? It's going to get your cropped on a hypertrophy but light enough that it's always going to be really safe. This is a ghetto ass myth machine situation. Yes, so they have to watch how he has to rack it. We get to see when we're going to just wait. Oh, yeah, that's barely a machine at all. Once you can't lift by yourself, you need a training partner for that. Whoa, Scott, what is this? Oh my god, it's like a belted leg extension. Weird. You have like belts on the top and belts on the bottom too. You know, Scott some machines they just made like shit back in the day and I'm glad they don't make him anymore. It was all that stuff stacked on top of it. Yeah, just like the bed frame again. Dog shit engineering. Yeah, they were trying their best. I guess the classic Arnold squats. So I actually used to program these squats into my workouts when I was like 19, 20 years old and I called them Arnold squats. It's just super upright. He's way well over the toes, but you're only squatting kind of about two thirds the way down, maybe halfway down. And if the reason Arnold did that is because I think you wanted to go heavier, but he wasn't really well averaged for squats, shorter torso longer legs. And it was a very tall. And so these squats were pretty challenging for Arnold. So I think he did these sometimes just to get a feel of bigger weight. And then this is a pretty classic bro training. Is this the best way to squat? No, no. Is it better for Arnold to put something under his feet to have a heel chew and then squat with lighter weight all the way up and down, especially at that bottom? Yes, it would have been better 100%. You're about to use the belts for squats, right? I wouldn't know any about that. What I got. Yeah, okay. So Arnold, using a belt. Now here's the thing. That's a really good belt. It's a classic leather belt. Probably a little bit thinner in the front, a little bit wider in the back, adopted from the sport of weight lifting, snatch and clean and jerk. The purpose of a belt is if your legs are so strong that you have a back core. That is now the limiting factor on squats. It gets tired first. And the weight is so heavy that the core is kind of unstable. It goes a shit. I don't even want to turn on the legs maximum because they'll snap our shit up. I'm the only factor here. What the belt does is by wrapping around your core, it just actually increases the intribedominal pressure inside your core. It supports every single structure and it keeps the spine really stable. And that enhanced stability allows your body to go, you know what? Actually, I can push my legs really far on this because my lower back, my mid back is not a limiting factor. And ideally, the way this pressure is applied is through most of your lower torso, your abdominal region, not just a three or four inch belt slice, but maybe like six to eight inches. And 360 degrees around. And ideally, a belt like that should also be a little bit mobile to conform to your natural movements, but still give you that massive improvement in intribedominal pressure and safety and enhanced neural drive. And the way I'm talking now seems like I'm talking about why I wish we had about like this we do. The hypervelt from the people that brought you versegrips is here in Israel, Jared, and I have a lot of other IFE pro and I designed it together. While making love to each other, think about that scene. Now stop thinking about that scene, wash your brain out with soap and come back to the belt, the hyper belt. Here it is for sale, it is designed for hypertrophy training. It is the first belt ever designed for muscle growth training. That's why it's taller, it's thinner, and it's 360 degrees of support. It also doesn't have a latch system, it just has one of these pull situations where it's velcro so that on some sets you need a belt really tight. On other sets, you need a not as tight and between sets, you can loosen it, to just have a really cool, conformal looking structure and just still walk around with it. You don't have to take it off and put it on all the time through your workout. You can keep it on most of your workout, you just tighten when you need it. The Versa grips hyper belt is here, there's links, there's descriptions, there's savings, if you buy through us, then just going on on the site raw. Give that some thought, all right, back to Arnold. No, shut up, stop doing your bullshit belts, stop nobody cares. Look at you, you're 4 for 10. Scott, am I really 4 for 10? Yes, you're actually telling the truth the time for once. Finally, it must be hard for you to tell the truth as a Jew, you know, whether it was going to save it, but they can save it because if it's good to German accent, 9, it's us 3 and it's the German shot. Whoa, you don't see Arnold, Barbel Press too much in some of these videos. Okay, so notice his wrists are not even on screen, his elbows are so very wide grip bench press. He's got his shoulder blades tucked, he's got an archer retraction just like you would empower lifting, he's touching right at his nipple line. This is a very, very good wide grip bench press and here's the thing, I don't want to put too fine at point on this because there's so much uncertainty. But when guys back in the day, we're doing lots of inclined Barbel Press wide grip, flat Barbel Press, lots of heavy dumbbell flies, heavy sets of 10, 15. Lots of dips as well. Guys seem to have on average better chests compared to the rest of them than they did in the kind of late 90s, early 2000s era of if I can do it with a cable or hammer strength machine, I'll never use a Barbel or double ever again. And I don't know if there's a cause and effect there, maybe I'm just hallucinating the whole thing, but I'm not the first person to say this. I really think there is something to good technique, very careful moderate loads, not sets of 5, but like sets of 10, sets of 15 with incline and flat barbell pressing and classic dumbbell flies. I think that if you get stronger on those over time, the amount of raw stimulus and stimulus to fatigue that they bring in for the pecs is pretty magical. If you're having trouble growing your chest, doing some of this Arnold stuff is I think a really good idea. Notice, he's getting a full stretch every time, but it's 2-3rds of the way to lock out that allows him to get his chest real close to failure and for that range of motion to be mostly under the stretch position, which probably grows you a little bit more. Yeah, these are all these reps are real close to failure now, you can tell he's slowing down, he's grimacing. You like that inside rack bench press? Yeah, that's the first thing I know. Confusing. Yeah, yeah, what was I saying earlier? Huge stretch dumbbell flies, this is kind of a press fly combo, a little bit more repressive than the bottom, more fly at the top. Let's use slightly heavier load but get a big, big stretch, big stimulus. This is the kind of stuff punishing the chest with these kind of deep, deep reps with 3-8s progressively overloading over time, that I think is a pretty magic secret of chest training. I would highly encourage you to try if you haven't before. Yeah, that's 70's chest. This video could be longer because actually Dr. Mikey talked about it a long time, but we've got a condense this in the polisher 20 minutes clips for you because you don't have the attention span because tick the crud your brains. But the good news is to do the good memories area. You're going to click on it and you're going to do it now. You should get the better videos of this and there's also something about you had feather training. So yeah, members area, click around now. All right. Yeah. So Arnold really liked to curl all the way up to the top. I think what he was saying is that it helps work on your peak. We're not so sure if that's true that from my mind muscle connection perspective, I think Arnold kind of invented the bicep mind muscle connection. And I think he think he would say this exercise really helped to express that mind muscle connection. There was a bit of swinging at the bottom. I'm not going to say I love that, but some really good control at the top. Very interesting that it's a close grip elbows are all the way in. This is similar to how Jerry does his, my wife, we pro Jared feather does his Jerry curl. Scott, do you think we could throw that up on the screen? Yes. Yeah. The Jerry curl. The Jerry curl. I would never call it that because I don't make sure after myself. A really concentrated way to zap the biceps. Arnold kind of combining that with some swinging and some brochure. It's going to be a great stimulus. Is it the least fatiguing thing in the world? No, probably not. Yeah. I mean, yeah. 22 or whatever in charms that Arnold had is just wild. Yeah. And notice he's not swinging just for the fences. He's swinging a little bit at the bottom to get the weight going. And then it's clear that his bicep contraction is controlling both most of the assent and the decent as well. And so this allows him to get more reps, which gets him more jacked. I would prefer my own training and you guys should consider just doing strict work, but just taking more rest breaks and just doing the same number of reps you would. But with bit more rest breaks and strict reps, but this is definitely a way to get the job done. All right. Pretty ballistic upright rows. Lots of people do them this way. Is this perfect? No. Do I think it's a good idea to have more control? Yes, it reduces how much spinal fatigue, axial fatigue you get, how much systemic fatigue you get if you just mostly use your side delts and not as much of your swing ability. But is this going to drive a lot of raw stimulus into the delts? Absolutely. One hour per cent, he's using a weight and rep combo. He wouldn't just be able to do with the upper body. His legs have to help a little bit, which milk's the living shed of the upper body makes him use a lot more of the fast twitch motor units and his shoulders than typically. So this is going to be a raw brutal workout. I would recommend making the technique a little bit crisper, not using as much swinging. But other than that, this is a great movement. We also have amazing range of motion. You're coming really high up all the way down. Scott, do you notice the back and Arnold's day? They really like assumed you're supposed to be doing the big range of motion for almost all the stuff. That was actually the one thing that surprised me, because I assumed it would be like the 90s all middle range hammer press stuff. The 90s really ruined a lot of shit man. Is that actually how they had it figured out before? Yeah, in the 70s they trained pretty well. In the 80s, almost everyone trained with this fundamental really good technique range motion. Richie Gospari, we had Lea Labrata, Lea Haney, these guys when you look at the training footage, they all trained really, really well fundamentally. Then through the early to mid 90s, a lot of guys still did that. Kevin Levron phenomenal training, just basic, good full range of motion controlling the weight for most lifts. Then in the mid to late 90s, you got to use the air for some of the folks doing lots of camera machines, partials and stuff. A lot of these guys are so big, they could barely move their own body through a four-inch motion. I got kind of wacky there, early 2000s mid to 2000s, kind of weird. This is a dope era. Again, a lot of swinging, but fundamentally very good stuff. Nine, shot up, bullshit. Arnold definitely got after it. Very beautiful women sometimes feel that they're admired for the wrong reason. Is that happened to you? If they just want to want me for my body, it's great, you know, I get the same satisfaction out of it. I mean, there's no sexual relationship that I have with the woman that she gets everything out of it and they're nothing. Damn, Scott, he's wonderful. Exactly like you promised. Look at my hair. I'm gorgeous. So I'm perfect to satisfy. If she just wants me for my body, you know? This is like, Scott, telling a man this like, hey, okay, okay. I have a girlfriend who wants the tear or clothes off and just suck on every part of you. That's kind of gross, right? You feel victimized, you're like, wait. What? Where is she? Please. Does she have a number? I can text her at. You know, my being a sex out of shit. No, no, no, no. I don't feel like I don't. The channels outless courses will great in a way because it may be what exercise. But the advertising campaign did a lot of harm to bodybuilding. It may be will believe that man trained with weights for the simple reason of embracing girls. Damn, Scott, this is some social criticism from Arnold. Yeah, I mean, the ads were like just the most like, man, someone bullying up the beach and you're lack reproductive opportunities with women of the property agent, gender. Yeah, I do. Sir, I'd love to be able to stand up myself with the beach and thought, get the same. And kicked into my face, man. Yes, and as this child else, protein, powder, and dumbbell set, then the RP-i-perchrophy app has dozens of pre-made workout templates to help you build a plan faster than any other training software allows. But you can customize each plan exactly to your needs by prioritizing and depray-ortizing any muscles you'd like to train, choosing the exact exercises you'd like to use, and customizing the volumes you employ at every single step of the process. If you're looking to bring up liking muscle groups, look no further than the RP-i-perchrophy app. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. Then you'll be having lots of an across and no time, even with ladies. It might pictures in the of the guy looking in the mirror and posing, which again, gave you the narcissistic image that the image of bodybuilders being narcissistic. I never look in the mirror and pose constantly. I don't do this every day of my life. Are you sure about that? It's also gave the image of bodybuilders trained with weights only because they want to punch out people, and because guys who trained with weights have an inferiority complex with the body. I don't know where he would have gotten that one from. And therefore they pick up weights. And yeah, little shades of gray hair folks, a lot of people get into lifting for their own reason. And many people get into lifting because they were bullied. No names here. Because they couldn't get the attention of girls. Also, I would have nothing to do with that. And because they wanted a sense of agency and even like literally increasing their combat power. That's a lot of why people train with weights is not the only reason. But I think what Arnold was trying to say, and a view I hold really highly is that while many of us get into lifting for that reason, what it gets us into bodybuilding per se eventually is just pure artistic endeavor. The ability to forge your own sculpture and live inside of it is like so fucking cool. You guys, that's why I do this shit real talk. Basically the only reason I bought it at this point or kind of ever is to like embody my own weird psychotic vision of what I could do with my body as a sculpture. And I think that's the stuff that has nothing to do with girls, nothing to do with bullies, nothing to do with revenge or anything like that. It's just you, the artist perfecting your craft. That's what Arnold was and always will be, or the absolute greatest physique artists of all time. And he is golden. He gets a 10 out of 10 at every scale. Okay, fine. Yeah, you got the same nice things about me so that maybe I see you clip and then to the ground and the go to the guy and shout-up. Yeah, it's kind of what I think I was thinking. Scott, do we have anything else to say or am I shutting up now? Guys, I'm about to shout out. You ready? Three, two, one. See you next time. You

I think he's like in his early 20s, so he probably doesn't give a flying f*** about the staying super healthy. At this point, what Sam is doing here was what I would just call colloquially moving weight around. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here, creator of the RP Hyper-Trifi app and Professor of Exercise and Sport Science at Leem & College. And I'm going to be taking a look at Sam's Sulex training videos. He's all the rage on the YouTube's. And even though a slight misunderstanding in the law prevents me from interacting with people in the early 20s, especially young men, weird, locker room experience, I won't get into. Let's take a look at how the new generation is training and see if we can give some old helpful tips. Alright, roll it. This hair was strength machine. It only holds six plates. Okay, so it looks like we have back up first on the menu. He said the machine only holds six plates. Let's find out why that's a problem. You know, I've been known to throw around seven, especially when you're fresh. When you're fresh on back, you're pretty fucking strong. So I'll just go out and say it on most machines, especially that particular rowing machine. If you're using much more than four or five plates, call them a curious. I'll say I'm given the skeptical eyebrow here for how is this technique going to look. Because if you say you need six plates on a rolling machine, the smart money is you're using it wrong or you could be using it better. But I'm prejudging literally. So let's judge away after he actually does a step. Instead of doing seven plates and then like trying to ...jerry-rig machine, like a fool, kind of to make it harder. Right, for the first set, I'll grab this handle. That's in the lower position. So that's actually really smart. If you grab the handle high up, the lever advantages yours. You will have lower internal forces to your muscles. You would give in the same amount of load on the machine. You'll have higher internal forces if you grab the handle lower because the lever advantage is no longer yours. But that being said, the different grabbing position makes the movement art shorter. And it potentially doesn't give you as much of a stretch. So if you're considering doing this yourself, try to experiment to see where you feel the exercise the best, get the best stretch, get the best arc and motion, lock in your lats at the very top of the movement. Something I don't think about. Right, I don't know how much you know about torque and mechanics. Torque and mechanics. Two of my expertise areas. Maybe the closer something is to the point of rotation. Right, the more force you're going to have to exert. It's the lower handle is harder. Bro, Sam just passed like a very basic gym IQ test. This is looking up. A lot of bodybuilders would not have said all that and they'd made any sense. This is totally valid. Three cheers Sam, amazing. Somebody who went to school at least some time. So the first set will do with the lower handle. Depending on how strong I am, I'll stay there until I think the higher handle will be better. Okay, this is interpretable. But for better results, safer have a couple tips for Mr. Sam. One is to control the eccentric, the downward motion considerably more. It's very growth promoting and because controlling it more asks your muscles to work harder, it's harder to control. It provides a great deal of hyper-traffic stimulus. Another thing is to go as deep as possible for the biggest stretch you've been shown. Time and time again now with good theory and empirical support. That big stretches under big loads grow the muscle more than if you stop a little shy. You want to really let your tire back and folded out and then crunch it back in. Is he going high enough at the top? Not a major concern. He's going high enough for very good effect. But the control on the eccentric is not a lot. And the big stretch at the bottom is just not happening. If he changed those two things, good news he would have to no longer use six plates. He could use about four. But the actual muscle growth stimulus would be at least as high probably higher for any given unit of set. Any given number sets he performs. In addition to that, the impact on the joints and connective tissues would be low. So it would actually keep him healthier, muscular, skeletal heat for longer. And he gets like in his early 20s, so he probably doesn't give a flying f*** about staying super healthy. At this point, it's some shit that really comes in handy when you're getting into your late 20s or early 30s and someone's like, all right, you're an IP pro stage, time to gain 15 pounds of muscle. We're really push the big boys and you're like, but my joints are all broken. And I can no longer lift heavy or hard enough in order to make that happen. Something you wish you would have done when you were younger is established excellent technique, first to stay as safe as possible. As long as possible, with maximum effect, slowing those e-centrex and getting big stretches every time is a real big deal. Yeah, another problem with such inconsistent range of motion is this very difficult to determine where failure is. He seems to be just be like when he's really really tired, he gives up, which is also totally cool, but it can create some variation training session to training session. And ideally what you want to do is have as little variation as possible but for the variables you control. The load you vary, the repetition number you vary, the reps and reserve you vary, everything else should be as consistent as possible to deliver the same exact kind of stimulus over and over that leads to predictability. It leads to awesome consistent gains, minimizing injury risk. If your failure point is kind of like, when I stop, I stop. That's not terrible at all, but it could be done a little bit more precisely. All right, I'm moving up to the higher handle. Much better stretch on this one. Very good. Still lacking that slow-ecentre control. How slow? Two to three seconds is really good on a movement with this kind of amplitude, with that much range of motion. If there's something like a squatter like press, even three to five seconds can work because it's so far to go down. For something like a bicep curl, even one second control, the center can be good enough because it's such a short amplitude movement, but yeah, I would like to see him control the center a little bit more ideally. No actual latin pull down at this gym. Not awesome, but that's f***ed up. How the f***. And this is not a critique on Sam at all. This is a critique on the gym he's at. How do you not have a latin pull now? I mean, holy shit. That's like it's the top five machines you would ever order for a gym. That's kind of insane. I wonder if they have an assisted pull-up or something. Maybe it's broken. Good God. Single-up pull-downs, especially with a stack that is heavy, that's this heavy. I mean, you're getting the stimulus you want. Okay, so we're doing single-armaged stud wise choice. Yeah, same critique as before, the eccentric is very rushed. In the single-arm latin pull-down especially because you're off-center to the machine. By reaching up in a cross like Coach Casim at N1 advocates often, very valiantly I might add, you can reach up as high as possible and let your latkin pull. Get your shoulder really up there, really stretch everything out, and then come down for that crunch at the bottom. Can really optimize this movement. What Sam is doing here is what I would just call colloquially moving weight around. It's fun to be young and jacked and strong as f***ing just like bully the weights. It's dope and it's effective too. But the ratio of stimulus to fatigue and the ratio of stimulus to injury probability isn't ideal. Not so close to ideal. This is good. It's okay, but it can be done better by milking that slow-y centric. Controlling the weight at all times and a big stretch may be even hold for a second. Let your latts really tear apart at the top and then crunch it down totally good to do that powerfully and explosively. That's awesome. You got a lot of f***ing energy in the gym. Great. You don't have to do it explosively, but it sure a shit does hurt. It's just that back on the eccentric, you want to control and go a little bit slower and get that full range of motion. Like I said, you know, we're going to do something upper back biased. So these are going to be essentially seated rows right. One handle for each arm. It's not just pulling towards my body. The cables are kind of wide. Not only am I getting a good rowing sensation, I'm also kind of pulling towards my medium line of my body. So it's like combining, I don't know what it's like combining. But it's basically instead of doing a row just straight towards myself, the hands are wider. So I'm pulling like this. Yeah, that's kind of cool. You know, some machines are designed. Most machines are designed to a row in a straight line. I've seen some machines that are designed to pull apart. That tends to engage the very high area of the upper back and the rear delts a ton. I have seen very few machines that have you pull in. It's a little bit awkward, but I think if you're pulling in, you can get a little bit more lat activation, and normal because the latts kind of tend to pull in as well as back. The rule with these kinds of setups and modification and specific angles is that all boils down to SFR as King, stimulus to fatigue ratio. What does that mean? Science Man shot up a news American words. If you feel the crazy amount of tension where you want it for that exercise, if you're getting a crazy burn in the muscles with high reps that you're targeting in that exercise, if you're getting mega-f***ing psychotic pumps, and if it gets you sore and really beat up in that area, and you're joints feel good about it, there's kind of no wrong answers. Like if you're doing some kind of lunge that someone says doesn't target the glutes, but your glutes get crazy tension during the movement, they get a burn in high reps, they get psychotic glute pump, which of course instantly go and take pictures in the back. Ideally you hand someone in your camera in the locker room and you go, can you take a picture of me real quick? They're sure, in that expected native front of a guy, you turn around, drop your pants, anyway, if the stimulus to fatigue ratio is good, then your glutes are getting sore, and your joints feel great. Whatever that person said about those lunges don't hit the glutes, is actually just wrong. It's empirically wrong, it's obviously wrong. So, I could critique some silks set up here in the row as much as I want, but if he can check all those boxes, it's f***ing golden by me. Can he get even more out of it by potentially controlling the eccentric more, getting more of a length in contraction? Yeah, almost certainly, but that's just me being nitpicking. I should probably stop giving random strangers my cell phone at the gym with which you take pictures of my ass. Nah, f***, I'll just keep doing it. If you guys like this stuff a whole lot, they're extended much less edited addition with raw footage is available in our members area, give it a click and join up if you like. Yeah, that was curious. The range of motion is very low. If he grabbed closer together automatically, this is all range generated for the back musculature. So, that's a reason why in many instances, though not all, you want a little bit of a closer grip than a wider grip to target the back. A wider grip is gonna, I think, do less overall mechanical work, making it not as efficient. It's also gonna hit the rear delts and sort of middle upper traps a little bit more, but I'm not convinced this is the greatest setup in the world. Definitely something for you to try in the gym, but when you try it, if you're like, and you go back to the closer grip, more long range of motion version and you're like, oh yeah, that's great. Don't be surprised. Interesting thing is doing is he's doing some spinal flexion and extension. I think for cable row, that's actually really awesome. Again, as usual, I would love to see him really fully flex into the motion. Almost putting his head sort of closer to his knees, really rounding his head back and then as he comes up, arching back and putting that chest sky high, literally putting his shoulders behind his glutes with a huge arch belly out. That's gonna be extra tough and it's gonna hit the spinal directors like crazy. I'm sure you guys have seen some pictures of my spinal directors. Kind of look like two people running up my back, which is what they always told me that in jail. I don't know why. Oh, my fellow inmates, you guys, but that would be dope. I've been on a barbell kick for the last few months. And then maybe in client Smith, I might just be done with incline pressing with barbell. Do maybe five or six sets. It's interesting that he's really organically assembling his workouts. I think it is age and his level of development. This isn't the worst idea in the world because you really should be exploring a lot when you're younger. I do prefer a more methodical approach, something like the RPI purtrophy app. You pre-program all of your stuff and you can always change exercises on the fly. We're really trying to push people into doing end of the same exercises they started out with in week one and finishing them all the way through week four, five and six. This was totally cool to do at his age. I would like to see him as he gets older and progress is more to take a more formalized approach to writing down all of his stuff. There's lots of guys that do this. Jordan Peter's does this just an entire dust this that consistency week on week on week allows you two things. One allows you to track your progress which is awesome and two it allows you to see if the exercises you chose really are hitting the muscle groups like you want them to and learn from it. Let me tell you guys about the RPI hypertrophy app. With over 28 preset programs already in the app you could choose to make your own. You could modify an existing program or you could just run the programs exactly as they were written by eight personal. This app programs everything for you exercises weights sets reps frequency the whole thing. After every single workout and every single week the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now you're pretty interested in the app download the RPI hypertrophy app today. Yeah, not ideal bench press technique here in the incline. Hand positioning looks very good. The lockout at the top or close to lockout is totally fine. The eccentric is notably faster than the concentric which is backwards. You want a slow control eccentric and then a slightly more explosive or normal speed concentric. Again, huge gains are made when you stretch a muscle under load of ton and so if you could slow down that barbell reach all the way down to his chest gently pause at the bottom for a split second and then come back up. First of all he would probably only need like 275 pounds not the 335 that he's doing. It would result in better joint health and a much lower risk of injury while at the same time minimizing systemic fatigue because you don't have to handle as much external load. Is it as impressive? No. In a certain sense on video, but in a certain sense it's even more impressive because you are exposing yourself to the weakest possible position at the bottom. At the end of the day impressive or not, you just want to grow as much muscle as you can and the way to do that is not to skip out on that last few bottom inches. If you know what I mean how ladies, eh? Am I right? Anyone? Okay. Yeah, that he's dropping that eccentric real fast, quick reversal, eh man. Pack injuries are real folks, especially when you're on steroids, hot calling the kettle black, but it's just true. Especially when you're young and growing really fast, your pack muscle size can outpace your tendons temporarily and doing rapid eccentric's on an incline barbell has in prior cases result in an devastating peck injury. It would not want to see this happen to Mr. Sam who seems like a real small guy. So I'm slowing the eccentric and going all the way down for a big stretch and a nice gentle pause is probably supervised. So obviously, I didn't jump straight to f***ing three plates at a ten. I'm not a f***ing fool. Very wise, you don't just want to get in there and do that. When I was his age, just to put into perspective how big of a f***ing 80 I was, it was 20 years old, this is how I would lift. I would put three 15 on the bar on the flat bench and I would do a set of like 15 pushups. I would rest two minutes and then I would do my first set, working set of three 15 for like 10 to 12 for something. Mironic. So when I critique Sam Sooluk and folks like him, please understand that I've made all of these mistakes and more. But now I'm old and gray and maybe wise. So yeah, I've done worse than this. So it's great that he's warming up at all. You know, I did like a 15 minute cable warm-up. 15 minute cable warm-up. Who's excessive? I take back everything I said. I set push downs, like faceball stuff, rows, a little bit of like crossbody, single-on cable presses. That's just f***ing gigantic waste of time. I'm going to be clearly honest. Three plates again. You know, way too fast on the eccentric and cutting that Ranger Motion at the bottom seems to be a pattern from Mr. Sam and most of them are having savings. Oh, there we go. Using those supports. That was close. Let's say for whatever reason you like doing something slightly unorthodox in the gym. Right. You know, slightly counter-intuitive to the general populace to the point where people might look at you and say, what is that guy doing? If that works for you and for whatever reason, like if you're doing some kind of weird bicep curl or some kind of weird something, I can't really think of anything right now. But you're f***ing feel some crazy fatigue in the targeted muscle you're working at. I love it. Preach the good words, sir. And you get a crazy pump and in the long-term you're making gains. I mean, guess what? That's f***ing perfect for you. Right? There is no right answer. Touching, we're until whatever desired Ranger Motion he cuts a set off at. That would just require the same or less load, the same or fewer repetitions for just more gains. So it's I think pretty close to objectively a better idea. You'll notice that on the way up he's kind of throwing his whole body forward. That's not as much chest as it is like abs and stuff. Nothing terribly wrong with that, but if he sat straighter and really lifted his chest up he could really isolate the packs and make them work the most. Oh my god. So in terms of the stretched position? My years are fluttering go on. Love Pack Deck. That wasn't the stretched position, Sam. Maybe for him it was. I'd love to see what his technique would look like. Well Mr. Gerd, Father got a chance to train with him. Really push him in that direction. That would be really fun. All right. So that concludes the Sam's Soulic video review. I think Sam seems like a very intelligent person. He seems like he's super excited about the gym and making gains and just living that good life and I think that's that's f***ing great. I think much of his training is very sound. I would love to see him focus on a slower, more controlled eccentric and just in every position bigger stretch at a pause at the bottom. I think that will just elevate his training to the next level. Then he's going to weigh 380 pounds with 0% body fat and we're all truly able to bow to our new king. If I were to rate this workout, it would get a 1.7 9 out of 2.35. Feel free to grab your calculators and turn that into a letter grade. That's right. I'm flipping the script as you guys next time.

I leave everyone involved as kind of like Shipe the F-I-I-Y-A-D-A, where in American sport would you ever see something like that? Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. I am A, competitive bodybuilder, former professor of exercise and sports science. Co-founder and creator of the RP-Dion RP HyperchV apps and the company RP Strength would also high-cor Apple and have a black belt in Brazilian Gigiitsu, Namaste. But there are levels of grappling. My own BS even though it's a black belt sort of grappling, touchbutt in the park. And then there are gods and kings of grappling and their known as Sumo wrestlers. They come from Japan. We are going to look at their training, at their diets, and at their culture and lifestyles. How many more culturally operative bowing symbols can I make before we get cancelled? Let's find out. The first Sumo fights are believed to have taken place 1500 years ago. Yeah, that's intense. Can't you Gitsu was invented like? I don't know. A thousand years later, probably more? Tryp. The rules of the game are very simple. Make your opponent fall or push him out of the circle. Okay, love. Love. Simple rules. Like if you're falling down, if your knee touches the ground, or if you step out of the circle, are amazing. For at least one reason, they instantly captivate the audience and engage the audience if the sport fundamentally is fun. To gigantic people pushing each other around is already fun. But if it's a really complex rule set, you ever get that. Try to watch a sport like curling or some shit and you're like, I have no idea who's winning. Like how does it even work? Brazilian Gigiitsu, like isn't a guy on bottom losing? No, he's actually in a really strong position. Like what the hell is that? And then some guy taps you like, why do you tap? Really, it's an ankle-occurrency coming with so much really, really straightforward. And that's awesome. And my wife, Chris Lai, have been watching so pretty regularly on YouTube. There's a bunch of places to see it on YouTube for free. And it's really, really, really intense, really intense, amazing sport, and make no mistake about it. These guys are tip-top world-class athletes. Why are they so fat? For one reason, that's called ballast. Fat does not help you move around. It reduces your mobility. Not good. However, you want high mobility and sumo to juke your opponent's advances, to move his weight against him and for your advantage, and to push forward against him and be maneuverable. To also be able to adjust your feet on the fly really rapidly, so that you don't fall. However, if you are trying to push a very large person, it doesn't matter if they have a lot of fat or a lot of muscle, they're harder to push around when they're big. In one something big gets going, the fat acts as a pool for momentum. So if you are sumo wrestler, you want to be as muscular and as fat kind of as possible within some constraints of mobility, but those constraints are fairly low. So you want to be as big as possible so that you can still move people around. And you can still be pretty decently mobile yourself, but you want to be very difficult to move. This is why offensive and defensive line in the NFL are not the leanest people in the world, because just weighing 330 pounds is a good start. And for many of the best sumo wrestlers, we're talking about guys that typically weigh at their peak 350 to 400 pounds. And they're usually right around six feet tall, often a little bit shorter. That is a very low center of gravity, very gigantic object. And another thing I want you guys to pay attention to is the size of these guys legs. Yeah, their upper bodies are fat, though have tons of muscle, but their legs are jacked. You can see glued outlines, quad, inner thigh stuff, and you realize after a while like, mostly these guys have pretty lean legs, and they're enormous legs, and that gives them the ability to push into each other to adjust on the fly. These guys will push anyone you know out of bounds. And that is really, really, really intense. And the way it happens is also trippy. Hopefully we'll see that in a little bit. I like that everyone involved is kind of like, SHIT the f***. Yeah, uh, pussy. The rough leg turns, and you just got wear in American sport. We've ever seen something like that. Like I'm not a pussy, I'm a pussy. I'm a pussy. I did. And MMA, the guy would be covering him to protect the guy. This is like, yeah, he's good. He's good. He already has a cast, you know. Nope. Is this arm limp? Do you know, holy. Oh, finally somebody caught him. Scott, can you imagine like, one of these guys like visits like New York, and some rough hands like two guys get on the subway, and they're like, look, it's this fat Asian asshole, and they try to like take something. Can you imagine him getting out of the subway chair? He's already in his ideal position, and just like, I mean, what would happen? Like through the wall. Like he might just blow you out of the, can train. Guaranteed nine times out of ten. If it's like 150 pounds just like regular do, trying to believe a single guy. Guaranteed instead knock out on contact. Like, your head'll just go like this. You're done. He's like, boom, and it's hit. He turns to the other guy in the other guy's like, Sir, what we were trying to say is we really love sushi, and then he gets a slap. Scott, they slap each other. Do you know that? Oh yeah. Sumo's the shit. It's a baby sumo factory. Something about baby sumo factory doesn't sit right. You know, the police once rated my house for what they accused me of having a baby sumo factory, but I was only smuggling babies. I'm not training them for anything. It's other sumo gems that I'm selling these babies to. Is that a crime? Getting babies the sumo training they need? You know how muscle and fatter-shaped. That kid in the center, the big one. That was this quads bro. He's eight. What? Yes. Do that. Holy shit. Yeah, children don't dream of being the next messy or an although. Their obsession is to become sumo champions. Overweight, and with the body of a mini wrestler, Toki is only eight years old. He is the youngest of the team, and yet doesn't get any special treatment from his coaches. After yet another defeat against one of his classmates, exhausted and pushed to his limits. He breaks down. Oh my god, there's a fatter-y in baby. Come to the Kavara as Retail Household. We'll take good care of you. We won't have to do anything you don't want to, except lift weights and appear at Asmaner so you can break the all-time squad world back. But other than that, the Japanese ended motivation. They completely absorbed it. Fuck, that is so baller. He's like, oh, could you help you out of tears or kids? Any concern with a sword? I don't know where I was going with that. Japanese is awesome. Cry during trading and laughing. Cry during training and the laugh and battle. Now if you've ever seen competitive sumo, they never show emotion in battle, including laughter. But metaphorical laughter is better than metaphorical crime. Sumo is the only sport in the world where professional athletes live together 24 hours a day. Scott, we are work together and you spend the night here once a week to record videos during the night. Why don't we walk around only in robes? As you keep at 63 degrees in here. Right. But don't you crank it up to that 75? I don't think you'll be in a fucking commono for a week. I love it. I love it. Folks, there's still more video to come, but if you want to see even more scantily-clad men and fantasies and dream about them, but for longer, and tons of cool science stuff and real life training for myself and Jade for the IP pro, we'll remember section, give it a click, give it a link, and back to the video. It's 630 in the morning. Fuck fat. I'm the barely awake and hungry wrestlers are already dressed up. These enormous athletes are almost as flexible as ballet dances. And smile exaggeration, but fine. Scott, anything British documentary in man tells me I want to believe. Yeah, he's great. I watched a really fascinating nature documentary once and it was about this really strange fish that lives in a cave, like underwater cave. And you know, scolikes, like other fish, like swim by, and it has this like little appendage, it shoots out, and he's like, and the fish shoots out this appendage in order to insure fish that come by, proving them to be satisfying meals. Scientists have studied the incredibly high friction nature of this appendage to realize that it was actually modeled after the Versa-Grips wrap. One thing that you can wrap around the bar to make sure that you don't have to use your hands as a limiting factor. You can do lateral races, upright rows, stiff leg and that lift, pull downs and pull ups with as much force from your prime move as as possible. And which brings us back to this not-initial fish swimming all the way to Versa-Grips headquarters in Maine to steal this advancement cereal for itself isn't nature, wondrous, cold link in the description below. Huh, Scott, did I just laugh to do an ad read by accident? That was good. I actually didn't see that comment. There you go. I bet you know what else to do either. Versa-Groves baby, we out here. All right, let us look at more men stretching with their almost cocks almost hanging out. For centuries, the training has been the same. The same exercise is the same routines and above all the same suffering. It's probably evolved British documentary in Maine likes to keep things very exaggerated, but it probably hasn't evolved enough. Advanced training and enhancement and training is a good thing. The Japanese are a very traditional peoples and the sports training of Japan is often very traditional as well. And so at times that means that there could be some downsides into staying constrained because advances in understanding, advances in lifting and supplementation in nutrition have radically outpaced pre-industrialized Japan, which is all the stuff was kind of formalized. So could the Japanese, Sumerasa, Trinney, really well? Yes, could they be training better by today's modern sports science standards? Yeah, almost certainly. To achieve this extraordinary weight, the Sumer, the Ristlers have an exceptional diet. Finally, the food! Public service announcement, if you're currently in a fat loss diet and you're feeling very hungry and craving, the following will be highly disturbing to your ears into your eyes. Do you see how fast these eating scar? I don't know how many animals they've eaten. The themselves for years, a considerable part of the weight is made up of fat, but 225 kg their guy weighs 500 pounds. There's for the wreck. But above all of muscle, the Sumer-Restlers are power monsters. The magic recipe of Sumer who is called Chankonabe. It's a hypercalleric stew with a little bit of vegetables and a lot of protein, meat, eggs and fats, lots of fats. Oh, is that like vegetable oil? It's not working right in there. Woo, not the healthiest thing in the world. I sure hope that's avocado or can all oil or something. It's God. The aim is to become heavier so that they can push better in the ring. It's 11 o'clock, a time for a proper feast. On average, Sumer-Restless consume 8,000 calories a day. But you've been gaining your whole life and your body's just tired of the ship. It might take 7 or 8,000 calories to get you to gain to 325 even over the course of several months. You would think like what the hell is going on? A lot of those calories just getting milled through your body and put out his heat. Scott, these guys are hot and I mean sexy. And physically hot. It's so tough when you're hot. And when you train all the time, eating is so goddamn difficult. This might be one of the hardest parts of the job. Everyone thinks eating is fun until you have to stuff yourself for more than about what Scott, a day, not even half a day? A meal is like fun to stuff yourself with. And then someone's like, it's too hours later. You got to eat again. You're joking. Now this is what it takes. You're out there quick. These guys put in work. This rapid weight gain is not without risk. The life expectancy of Sumer-Restless hardly reaches 65 years, which is 20 years less than the Japanese average. That makes sense, man. Getting really, really fat is bad for you. Luckily, these guys are very physically active, so it does make a huge tradeoff. But think of it this way. 20 years off lifespan, adjusting for genetics and perclivity. Let's call it 15 years. Even with a ton of exercise, with mostly good food going in, that is huge. And so the one thing for take away from this is if you want to live a long time being leaner and being smaller, is of really, really, really, really good idea. The first thing I learned was to do is to put stuff in. Sumer-Restless is what the problem is. This is the biggest thing I learned from you. Sumer-Restless is what we learned from you. That's where all of your powers were connected to the ground comes from. But upper body strength is also very, very helpful. Yep. In fact, if you don't have a strong lower body, you can just get snapped up like a twig. Yeah. 200 is 300. Basically, body weight scrap reps per day is not ideal at all. I would say cutting that to one third or four would be really good and supplementing resisted squats and leg presses and deficit dead lifts instead would make the Sumer-Restless significantly stronger and more explosive and better at Sumer-Restling period. Next, I learned Suryashi or foot sliding, also a lower body exercise. Cool. Yeah. So that kind of keeps tension on the quad muscles and it gets the burn going. Again, if you weigh 200 kilos, it will cause hypertrophy and it will cost strength in the handsmen. It is also great for mobility and figuring out how to get your balance going while staying low. But it's inferior, I would say, to the RP hypertrophy app, removes all uncertainty and makes the training process precisely defined. Choose your pre-made workout plan from dozens available in the app, plug in your weights and the app takes care of the rest for months of productive training. Ready? Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. Just like the basic shikostans, you maintain a crouching position and move forward while sliding your feet. Suryashi or foot sliding your feet. Step on too far. So you gotta basically mind the border and keep low and back. Yeah. Also, you guys pulling you back and pulling you down. So it requires extra force production. Very good for athletic pursuits, but probably should be mixed with quite a bit of resistive training. A big part of the afternoon is reserved for a nap. Two and a half hours of sleep to recover from training. Dude, this is brutal. And these guys supposed to be comfortable on this shit. Good. Every one of these I've seen this, they're on the floor together and I'm just one room. Yeah, I hope in the future they have like better accommodations. Let me talk about something real quick. Do you see these guys like laying on the floor? They sit on the floor to eat. That's cultural or whatever. They like sleep and like whatever mini cuts that aren't that great. And you think all like that's what it takes to get good. That's actually the opposite of what it takes to get good. Being good is a matter of making your training as long as it's specific to your sport as hard as you can manage and making relaxation recovery as easy as you can manage. So these guys had king beds and cocky buttons everywhere and couches and stuff to lounge on and got massages all the time. They'd be better at sumo than living inside of can dungeon with 10 other dudes and whack into the iPad in the middle of the night. Which really just sums up my Tuesday, but I'm sure these guys go through that sort of thing. Those got it's nice that they have a witty, the poo plushy there. It is I also saw a bunch of fans though. Leeds between relief. This might not be air condition either. It might not be air condition. It's really old school man like it's supposed to be the grind. And the thing is the grind is great in training, but opposite of the grind is a good idea the rest of the time. If you want to be your best, train as hard as you can, you recover as easily as you can. You don't want to make impediments to recovery, like sleeping down here on the ground and living in an odd air condition facility in the summer. All right folks. Sumo is goded out of 10. These guys get mega respect. They're ultimate super legit athletes. They're technique. And even get a chance to talk about much is lifetime trained. And the only thing I got to say is I kind of hope Sumo blows up around the world because I want to see African Americans do Sumo. That shit would be wild. Give me somebody that's about six foot seven, four, 80, used to play in the NFL coach him up a little bit. No, it's what's going to happen. In any case, Japanese people, you guys are awesome. Also, it's kind of really good Sumo athletes come from Mongolia, as they're gigantic over there. And Sumo is dope. Mike, man. Yeah. I did cannot find a single of a single Sumo restaurant, even in modern white guys lifting away. Yeah. You think it happens? If you don't see it, you think it's just they're behind a little bit there. I don't like to speculate a ton, but I do believe most Sumo athletes do not do much or any conventional resistance training because their sport predates the invention of weights and they're incredibly traditionalist. This is not a surprise, Scott, because in high school wrestling, in the 90s, we didn't lift weights. Up until the 1970s, American football players are rarely lifted weights, if ever they actually thought it made you slower and muscle bound. So, wouldn't surprise me at all, and in fact I have good reason to believe that most Sumo wrestlers do hardly any or any resistance training at all. If and when Sumo wrestlers decide to begin resistance training for Sumo, it will 100% have a mega impact on the sport. There are a few guys clearly using steroids in Sumo. They are more jacked, they are faster, they're more aggressive, they have better balance and they win a lot. And one of the number of things steroids give you is more muscle mass combined steroids or not steroids keep the sport clean. I guess trying to diet age 60 might as well in yellow, I say, but weightlifting resistance training compound heavy movements, multiple times a week would be insanely insanely beneficial for Sumo and sumo traditionalists. Feel free to let us know how that's wrong in the comments, but I honestly think that's a big deal in a big unlock. So, does that make sense? Yeah. Anyway, sumo wrestlers, if you see me in public, don't kill me, but if you kill me, eat me so you can become better. I've been Dr. Mike, and I'll see you next time. All right, that was fun, so much mad. It's raining man. Hallelujah, and if you click on this video right here, maybe you can look at more men, see you guys next time.

Why, in God's name, is his waste approximately as wide as each one of his quads, enormous arms, enormous forms, humongous billowing lads, the teasiest, most tapered waste you've ever seen can has no weaknesses, normally that would be an exaggeration. This is not an exaggeration. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength, I am a former professor of exercise in sports science, a competitive bodybuilder, a black belt in Brazilian Gitu, why do I say these things in troc, because I think a lot of people watch this that have familiar with the channel and you need to know about how impressive an ego inflated I am. I came out weird, but it's not wrong. As inflated of an ego, as I could ever have, there are many people who can deflate my ego simply by existing. And one of the top tier people that does this every time I unfortunately scroll past his Instagram page, then scroll back and look at it for a long time, possibly touching myself. Is a Mr. Keon Pearson who appears on Instagram as Keon Protaji, how do you get a nickname like the Protaji, because you are born for lack of a better term? Flahlus. And you will like that, flahlus isn't good enough. I want to be supreme and then you develop what I consider the greatest physique of all time. Yes, it's true, I think that Keon Pearson has the single greatest physique of all time. Period. We're going to look at Keon's training, we're going to see what we can pick up as far as cool tips and tricks and it might add a little bit of my own BS for you the viewer at home. So let's get to it. We are six weeks out tomorrow for an industrial limpia, really, really pissed off in a good way, more so that I'm more motivated every time I see a picture of myself from the limpia last year. I just get so motivated, just one in a big deadlock every single day. And that's really what it's all about. A competing with other people mentally is really tough because you're not them, you don't control what they do. They have different genetics, different shape, different everything and you have a zero effect on the outcome. Competing against earlier versions of yourself is incredibly healthy. You don't want to hate earlier versions of yourself, but a low key level of like kind of pissed like Buck this guy and man, I'm going to beat this clown. Amazing because you really do have the same genetics and you have more work under your belt and you can go a little bit harder on the diet and you can be more meticulous about your training and put a physique on stage that beats the shit I've ever earlier you. If you can put a physique on stage consistently that beats earlier versions of you, which I have yet to do in my career mostly, you're going to be doing really well for yourself. This is an excellent mentality. So Kian is really doing a good job of controlling the eccentric on these reps. He's pulling down fast and hard, but he's coming up a little slower, getting that lat to expand. You'll also notice that he's turned completely straightforward. He's not letting the body tilt out and put less of a stretch on the lat. He's turned away so that he's getting a lot of stretch in the lat, which is a really, really good thing. For you guys at home, experiment with going up even higher, but other than that, these are really good reps. Oh. Notice he's pulling up really fast and then as soon as the bar starts going back down, he catches it in a plies e-centre control all the way through that deep stretch. Very, very good idea. And also, on biomechanical grounds, I think this machine is awesome. This is at the Dragon's Lateren Vegas, one of the best gyms in the whole world. And I, Scott, I want to like it, but I can hate it. Do you have machines like that where you know it's a good machine, but you're like, I hate how it feels. Every back machine, really. Really? It's funny because back is your strongest muscle group. So what do you like Scott the video guy for your back training then? Rose Smith machine rose pull ups pull down. Okay, he's hardcore, right? Dorian, you know? I'm gonna only the hardcore basics for Scott the video guy. I got it. Two. I'm mine. Oh dude, he milks. He milks the living dog shit out of that stretch. Two. That's kind of cool. At the end of the set, when he can't do 4-Age anymore, he just kind of tries to do as many parcels as possible. I wouldn't do that at ton, but as an intensifier every now and again, I think it's a real sharp move to really cook the living dog shit out of the muscle. Oh, we have lengthened parcels. Still getting a deep stretch. Last couple reps down there can't pull up anymore. Scientifically shown to enhance hypertrophy. I don't typically do these on back movements because I hurt too much and I'm like, not as tough as he happened to be clearly honest with you. Five, four, here it is. Three, two, what? Oh, yep. Dude, yeah. So he's arching his back a little bit at the top to get that P contraction, rounding in at the bottom to get that huge stretch. It's a big deal. And also, he has his significant other with him to motivate him. Scott, have you ever seen Crystal Train me like this? I haven't. She just makes fun of you without a cross. From across the way. I just want to ask you like, it's cool that I'm doing pretty well, right? Like I'm just like kind of the man, I'm just kind of succeeding everything, you know, saying, like big dick and shit. It's cool, right? Oh my tall, whatever. Yeah. I mean, everybody's talking to him. But yes, relatively speaking, you are tall. But like I'm great, right? You're fine. You're 100% fine. But like I'm also. You're good. Dude, do we have a good relationship? Or is this all bullshit because she won't support me like, um, you know, I'm saying Keanu's getting. It was a male order for a ride situation. Uh, I did technically order her from the Philippines. Yes. Let's go. Ooh, there's this fat, let's go. Dan, they're like face to face. I said, I can really come back of Huskah. She's a gaming one more or what if he's like, nah, she'd be like, my fucker, you heard me, bye. Damn. What do I think about forced reps? I don't like forced reps because I like to control my own shit. Maybe that's just me being personality. But if you give most of the reps your own good shit and then the forced reps help you continue to bring a muscle past failure, I think it's totally fine. It's fun. It's vibes. And if you can reliably count on your training partner to do it, then there's not really a lot wrong with that. If you're tracking your shit with like the RPI purgifi app or something like that, forced reps are not a good idea because it screws up your tracking and you can't tell if you're getting stronger over time. I don't think Keanu has that problem. So I think all's well that ends well. Scott. What's he got on his wrists there? You know the wrist straps, but God, I just can't behind you behind it because they're not the right time. What is the right kind people? You know, I was part of an interesting scientific group before. It was an expedition to the Antarctic. And you might think the following is just me like taking the alien versus predator plotline and co-opting it for a versatile grip, adry, but that would be absurd. So anyway, the spaceship blew a giant cylindrical home, the Arctic ice. We had no idea it was down there. And they're like, we need a sport physiologist to come with us just in case whatever's in there is good at sports or sport relevant. Everyone laughed at me. There was material scientists, physicists, lots of like Navy seals and stuff in case aliens came out in that two miles under the Antarctic ice. We found a case of Versa-Grips. Everyone else was like, what are they? Four, one of the Navy seals was pointing as God. He's like, should I show them? I'm like easy, easy. I walked up and like snake on. I know what these are. These are a grip assisted device that can allow you to hold on to anything for as long as you like your forums don't fail. Your grip doesn't fail. Your target muscles fail. Your delts for lateral raises and upright rows. Your back for every back movement. Your hamstrings for stiff leg and deadlift. If you have Versa-Grips, link in description, then you can train all of your muscles that would normally be limited by your hands as well as possible. Then I kind of do that smurkey grand. I do this and I was like, see? And they're like, but how do we know they're safe? And I was like, they're totally safe. Watch. I put my hand in there and I was like, God, God, I got to see if you can help me. I haven't slept many nights since then. It's in it to be honest. Do you know why Scott? Is it wouldn't let go? Because it's a Versa-Grips. Still coping. Link in description. Let's get out of the video. How many delts do you count Scott? This is not three. It's like nine. My man, the billuiness of the muscles is what just baffles the shit. I mean, okay. This exercise actually love the close grip pulled down allows your lats at the top to be stretched more than they would be if it was a wider grip because this literally brings your arm in and stretches the lats. But also seems like a real smooth way to pull. I've been getting into this recently in the last few months and I've loved it. You can lose lots of weight. And it's not this like really hard to get the contraction. You touch your chest really easily. So you can spend a lot of time in that stretch. It's a really, really awesome for folks at home. If you am a so-called kind of so jacked at his mobility is probably, but if you are able to really extend out for big stretch at the top, that's really going to help you. Also Scott, do you notice that he also has back of head wrinkles? I see that. Do you feel good? Yes. I just tell people I'm keen on when they ask. And they always ask. Think like day today. Prep is getting close to close. Was actually going to start prep next week. As you guys saw my check in, I blew the value in that. I saw that video Scott when I first came out. I almost quit lifting afterwards. I like that he posted because some of the guys are all secreted. Yes. They did whatever. Yeah, it's like I'm going to beat all you dumb motherfuckers and I'm like, ah, and also, by the way Scott, this is peak off season. Why do you, why is your waist like that peak off season? Make it make sense, can't. And we decide to add more food, which I'm totally fine with. Things change every year. You guys, your body changed. And you just have to adapt to how your body is right now. I don't need a 20 week prep. This is a big deal. So a lot of people find kind of a method of training or method of dieting that works for them. They do it for the same duration every time. And that brings some consistency. The variable that's missing there is that your body is a little bit different every time. And you know, we have more years under your belt, your bigger, your stronger. You have different stressors in life sometimes less sometimes more. And that requires adjustment. So while the template can and probably should be the same, various adjustments have to happen. If you run for a bit of the same thing every time, you will get different results. So when people say, what has got the definition of insanity is doing the same thing and expecting different results. We're like, ah, that's not as true as you would think. Because a lot of times you do a very different thing and get the same results or you do the same thing and get different results. The end of the day, that's why bodybuilding coaching is going nowhere fast. Fine, tune, meticulous adjustments are how you become the best bodybuilder that you can be. Sometimes it takes a lot of adjusting. Sometimes you go everything is on track. Let's just now move the needle at all. But it's good that Kiana and his coaching staff are keeping a sharp eye on how to optimize the process. This is, this is, this is, this is, this is, this is. Very good stuff. Very good intensity. Very good eccentric control. I've used that machine before. I would love to see you guys go as low as you possibly can. Kiana's going very low but he's stopping a few degree shy. If you go even lower, does two things, it makes you more jacked. And it also lengthens your muscles to some smaller extent and adds more muscle on that distal component of your hamstrings. So if you go as deep as you can, it makes your hamstrings bubbly, not close to your butt, but closer to your knee, which is exactly what everyone is going for with hamstring size. He does make some cool gym noises, I'll scat. It's a lot of different noises too. It's not. Some guys make the same noise every time and you're like the RP, high-perrophy app, removes all uncertainty and makes the training process precisely defined. Choose your pre-made workout plan from dozens available in the app, plug in your weights, and the app takes care of the rest for months of productive training. Ready? Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. Sure! Sure! Dude, I feel like shit on that one. Scott, what is worse than like, leg extension caused quad pain? They're brutal. I hate it. I'm doing it one at a time to prolong the brutality. Took prolong the brutality. Honestly, fellas, I don't get them on at a time, shit. You guys can tell me in the comments what that's for. All of them are spiked, but that's what's up. Oh, look, it's Amanda and I told you, nobody playing out here, nobody playing. You guys, I'm not saying you should do this, but have children. Both that we can build an army of racially hybridized super soldiers. Does that sound crazy? Maybe. This sounds like a good idea. I think yes. Scott, what do you think? Army? They have to do it. They have to, come on, stop playing. Oh, God, those are hamstrings, Huscott. I know, it was just more of his quads. It's snuck in there. I'm tired of hearing hamstrings. I need to say quads. I predicted what you were going to say. Damn, can you? He's so jacked. He can tell like through space time when I'm going to say about him. Bell squads are, you can go to you guys. Bell squads are amazing. They don't have any actual fatigue. They don't fatigue your spinal cord or spinal column at all and all the muscles there. And that actually tends to be something to hold people back. If you do all that deadlift's rose and squats, it really beats you up in a way that just doing your legs doesn't. So this is really, really dope. Very good range of motion. You guys know me, I prefer even deeper than this. Very good control. This is tough. And a really good thing about the Bell squads exercise is when you get tired and you're close to failure, you can just lock out really lean forward into the device. Shake your legs out a little bit and keep going. That ability to do my reps is like something you can't do with a squat bar because as soon as you stand up with a squat and lock out, you're still on the timer that axial fatigue is pushing you down. It's draining you and there's no way you can rest underneath a squat bar. If it's just the Bell squat, you can rest a little bit and that means you can extend your sets into three, four, five approaches to failure in every single set. Really get you really only need one to three sets of that of the Bell squat, take it multiple times close to failure. So one to three mile repsets to do all the quad work you need for basically the whole week. It's a bad effect of an exercise. Oh, oh shit. Scott, did you see that? Yeah. And grab his ass. Hey man, do you see how his family gym catches going on doing that shit? How is theling of the glutes? Yeah. Is there a way that I could, you know what I'll allow him out of the stuff? But seriously, hit me. Oh. Oh. His legs are enormous. Have children. And his waist is so small that the whole thing just looks like we can build an army. Folks, there is a more video in just a second, but we have a member section where we do an expanded version of this video, an expanded version of every other exercise scientist to create video tons of vlog type of stuff, of me training of Jared training. A lot of technical videos that are way too nerdy for this channel over and make a zero money if we post them. That's all. Remember section. Give it a click. It's a little bit of money for a huge benefit. Now back to the video. Oh shit. Like press. This is good technique. Notice he is not necaving in towards his chest. His knees are coming out. His chest is sticking through his knees. He's going very, very deep at the bottom. His heels are planted firmly into the pads. This is high quality work. This is really awesome. Notice the control. He's not slamming it on the way down. He's not pushing with his hands. Total control the entire time. Very, very good stuff. So on this machine, one leg at a time actually does work because if you do two legs at a time, the way this machine is designed is really difficult to get a large range of motion. By doing it one leg at a time, he absolutely is getting a good range of motion. I just don't do it because it just gets a really interesting use of time. If Scott, do you want to be in the gym for twice as long and leg day or what? You know, one thing I do a lot is I count my leg days. I count all my training days, but especially the leg days, I think that's the most important thing that they know will leak for me. Leg days are different. What I always say is everything else is working out. You work out your chest back, shoulders arms, etc. Leg days are training. Leg days are hard on a totally different level. God was just telling me a story at the first time he did a hard leg workout. What's got it? Crushed you for like two weeks basically? Oh, yeah, I mean for two hours after it. For two hours after you were like cooked and you were like, what the hell is this? Yeah, it's different, man. Especially on prop, leg days are kind of a religious thing. Like a nervous the day before you show up, nervous for the workout and then after you feel totally liberated because not only have you kicked the monkey off your back for another weekend week or half a week, but you had to dig really deep and you feel amazing having pushed yourself despite all the circumstances. Alright, folks, that was really fun. There have been many, many unbelievable physics and amazing bodybuilders. Over the years, there are many currently competing. I do think Keon has a special place in bodybuilding history as one of the greatest, if not the greatest physics ever put on a stage, ever videotaped, ever seen in the gym and he seems like a super awesome person in real life. And so if you see him, he jealous but come up to him and say something nice and kind. There are many different types of inspiration you can draw, but the fact that someone can look like Keon inspires living shit out of me and I do follow him on Instagram and I absolutely August physique and I think like some day in some magical mystery world, I look a little bit more like that and that's enough for me to get to the gym the next day. In any case, Yahoo all of an respect, folks, and we will see you on Keon gets a prodigy out of ten that was easy. Alright, that was fun. I have body dysmorphian now. If you want to have more of it, maybe click on this video and I don't know how that's going to help you, but it's fun. See you guys next time.

Good if a soft hand off, f***ing Christ. I don't know what kind of bar that is, but that bar is permanently bent and will never work after this lift ever again. Three, who'd have tried to stand up with that much weight. He just muscles the ship. This is a person who can press more than any living human. I think ever, and there's no supportive equipment, it's just him. That is a whole different level of style. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. I've been a long time college professor of exercise sports science, competitive bodybuilder, Brazilian Gizzi Grappler, and former Mediocre power lifterin. Today, we are going to look at some of the all time biggest lifts in every category in a bunch of them anyway, from the world and time. And talk about why they look different, what's probably more legit and what's less legit, and how to understand how difficult the ship really is. Three, two, one, PR or ER. Okay, this is Jimmy Colbs, 1400 pound bench press world record attempt. You know you're lifting a lot when your spotter has a lifting belt on. Okay, so before I say anything, you could be like Mike Haldam. I thought the bench press world record was like something like literally half of this number. Like 700 pounds and you're completely correct. There is a thing that is not so done anymore, it's quite rare. Called power lifting equipment. This means squat suit, bench press shirt or deadlift suit. These are special, very tight, very stretchy, but hard to stretch fabrics that you put on. And as you go down in the shirt, the shirt's fabric stretches a ton and it's all shrug strong. And so it reduces how much weight you actually have to push yourself the lower you go. So while at the top of one of these lifts, you're basically lifting all 1400 pounds. At the very bottom of one of these lifts, you're lifting actually in oftentimes a negative amount, because you have to pull your shirt, you pull your bar into the shirt to actually touch your chest for it to be called a legal lift. I know, it's crazy. Let's see how things progress. Scott, you see how his lat and shoulder meat is distinctly more red than the rest of him. Equip lifting is f***ed up. Like imagine having half a fork lift on your ass, you would turn red too. All right, so he's going down. We're trying to check to see if he actually touched. It's close. It's close. And then one thing you guys will notice is that the amount of downward bar movement is tiny. The amount of lateral bar movement towards his belly and then back is massive. And so the total number of inches that he's moving 1400 pounds is like just a few. Is that like cooking the rule book? Sure. Is arching in the bench unethical? I'm not getting into that debate. I can get into that debate. We don't have to do it. Is he seemingly following the rules of his Federation to complete a technically successful lift? Absolutely. 100%. Is equipped lifting because it kind of looks goofy in some cases for everyone? No. Really it's for the most hardcore people. But most people like Rawlifting are minimally cool of lifting with a range of motion or bigger. The lockouts and hand-offs are more crisp. Scott, is that what we're looking at next? Yes. Okay, let's see what's up next. All right. Wait, what? Julius Maddox is on his own shit recently. I believe he's Puerto Rican, which helps on these kinds of endeavors. Julius Maddox is the greatest bench presser of all time. I think it's fair to say. And this unofficial word record, though. I know it's going to be super clean. 796 pounds. What? Rawlifting is Raw. This is Raw. He has a tank top on. Julius Maddox is as legit as it gets. This is a person who can press more than any living human. I think ever. And also, his spotter is enormous. He's the thing, guys. If you're going to bench a lot, your spotter is better. He's in Jacked. He's also not using the support rack Scott. Think about back. He's all on him and his really Jacked spotter. Let's find out how this goes. Bit of a soft hand-off. I can cry. So can we rewind that? That's Nirely. Let me tell you right in this video where I know that he's really strong right there. Scott right there if I put, you get all the light drive you want. I put 796 into your hands. Right from that lockout position. He's like third of the way to the finish line. Are you locking it out? I mean, you probably could. I won't. He just muscles the shit. And there's no support of equipment. It's just him. That is a whole different level of strong. Scott, can I ask you a question? Yeah. If you're going to be putting out a banson jacket as Derek Wilcox calls it and doing a lot of prices, do you think that you would ever become dehydrated? It's very possible. Yes. Letting in that suit it's hot in the gym. Yeah, down south. Yeah. And do you think that drinking water would fix that problem totally? No. Because you know a secret that it's not just the water that leaves your muscles and makes you dehydrated, it's electrolytes as well. The proper combination of salts plus fluids is how you rehydrate the best. And with our sponsor element, you can do just that. Did the element folks forget that there are few extra letters in the work element that they missed? Yes. Do we think they still make an amazing product that you just pour into your shaker? Shake up with protein and carbs. And now your shake is ultimately rehydrating as well as an anabolic? Yes. Element, think in description. Awesome. What I typically like to do with it is make a whole bunch of element turn on my only fans camera feed and just pour it all over my naked body in the bathroom. Nice. I'm not sure what that is doing with rehydration, but it makes me feel nice. All right. Let's go do more lifting. Guess who it is? It's Mike's generic Nordic accent. Ha ha ha. Is that one of your favorites, Scott? Yeah. Look, check this out. My name is Haftur Julius Björnson. And if I was to ever catch Dr. Mike Makenys, conjokes about me because I'm from Iceland, I'd repiss to Pajoulex office, to Pajou body. Whoa, Haftur, why you got to make it racial? Because you did it first. You think you have funny accent that sounds sort of Icelandic, sort of Norwegian, kind of maybe Swedish, live bit to Finnish percolé, but maybe nothing in between because you're actually down. This hack could be a real actor or comedian so you sit down. You fat. And you make videos of a very low ROI and nobody cares about you to talk to Thor. Thor, holy shit, bro. Can we just review your deadloft video? Cause you're the best deadloft of all time. Okay fine, but shut up about it. Cool. Haftur Julius Björnson, one of the strongest humans that has ever lived. Six foot nine, four hundred and forty pounds. Hey, Scott, what would you do if he at your girl RN? Nothing. Yes. Nothing is the right answer. So this is Haftur Julius Björnson deadlifting one thousand, one hundred and thirteen point three pounds. Matt Bam, there's freedom units, which is also a very neat five hundred and five kilograms. Breaking is prior record of five hundred and one kilogram, which broke prior Eddie Hall's record of five hundred kilograms and let me say something really quick. Eddie Hall was the first person ever to strong man rules, which means you get a suit and you get wrist wraps, deadlift 500 kilos and thus he is immortalized forever in strength history as one of the greatest of all time. The first human to deadlift 500 kilograms is something no one can ever take away from Eddie Hall. Oh, Scott, unless we get like a time machine or something. And you're like, hey, and he's like, oh, yeah, I'm going to win. Cut it off. And well, can you're like, Mike, that's not even like a sto-contrent accent. You saying all English, it, the, well, Shen Irish people, the same accent. Yeah, sure. I don't care about that. It's me time, it's time for Thor. Okay, fine, fine. So let's take a look at this. He's got a double-plice suit on, remember from powerlifting and he has straps all the way cinch to the bar. This basically allows you to just real lifting strength versus just grip strength. To be completely honest, almost everyone is limited by their grip to some extent in the deadlift. I'm not saying that all powerlifting federations should allow straps. That would be ridiculous. It really is kind of weird. But in strong end edlift, they do allow this. And the cool thing about a strong end edlift is this, which with the same bar and the same height as a regular deadlift, with the same rules for everything else, just the only exception is they get to use straps. And so you really get to see like how strong are these guys with their hips, legs, and back. And the answer is, can we're taking a look at this? Yeah! He just keeps going. In Iceland, there's actually no word for stopping like a little bit of a bitch. And there's 18 trillion words in our language for being a conviking baller and deadlifting God. Oh, thanks. Thanks, though, that was really excellent. Amazing. And because you're a baller-pimp, you stand there to demonstrate that this ain't shit, homies, we out here, baby. I mean, what are you going to do after deadlifting the world record other than like victory pose? Throw away your note pad and your excel sheets. The RP high-perchography app has all of your workouts displayed in one place, with guided videos on exercise techniques and a program that evolves to better suit your needs, the longer you use the app, all you have to do is follow the plan right on your phone and get the gains. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. So now we have some other fun deadlifts of note since that was okay. Okay, biggest one. Now some fun deadlifts of note. Let's take a look at these. Oh, by your request. By my request. What about 1,000 pound deadlift alleged? Yes, so this is Valentin Jekool. Dekool. There's a lot of fun ways to say his name and Russian that would be nice. Apparently, film the 1999 from what I understand, strength experts and historians, though asking someone like Derek Wolkox or Eric Holmes would probably be good at both PhDs, actually. I believe these lifts are fake. Valentin was a famous circus strongman who did lots of not-reel lifts. And so let me see if I can embarrass myself by trying to ascertain based on kind of kinematic properties of how the weight moves. If it looks fake to me. So okay, he's lined up there. All right. Yeah. Sting camera angles to show that. Interesting camera angle. And also the lift is quite fluid. And where he struggles in the lift seems like a faking it struggle rather than a real struggle. You'll have the lift come up much faster from the floor. Really tough around the knees. The rest of the lockouts typically very smooth. He never rounded his back. If you round your back, the lockout can be a bit more precarious. But here it's kind of like that one third of the way to the finish point. It kind of stops and keeps going again. I call bullshit on that. So I think these are fake lifts. If I'm wrong, when you see them, so goddamn sorry, you truly are a pimple. And one of the strongest humans to ever do the thing. But gee, this is kind of why you have to do this in formal competition. Now, see if it's 1999 that he did this. There was plenty of power lifting to be down. There's plenty of world competitions. He could have just showed up and just become the world champion. And one of them, the fact that he didn't do a little bit suspicious, he is wearing an awesome Russian sailor shirt, which is in classic. So he gets some evidence there. Yeah, I don't know how many people would lower the weight like that or have the energy for it. He's also wearing weightlifting shoes. Interestingly enough, which is really ballerweight. It makes the deadlift even harder. But there's a lot of stuff here that just doesn't line up. Yes, Blair. Yeah, cheering to no one. I don't know about this, man. I don't know about this at all. Oh, yeah. I didn't really get one in here. The RIDM Civic. It doesn't matter what you're up to. People in Eastern Europe are always going to find wacky things to do to make you seem like you're just regular. So this text, I copied for made up from this video title. By the way. I love it. It's a nice round year. 1896 pounds. It's like something maybe happened in 1896. Like the deadlift was invented or something. Partial deadlift world record, again, unofficial world record because the partial deadlift is not a contested lift. The best thing about this is a few things. One, I don't know what kind of bar that is, but that had to be custom manufactured. Two, that bar is permanently bent and will never work after this lift ever again. Three, there's only like three millimeters of space where the bar touches the rack because it's already so bent there. It doesn't even lay flat on the rack. This is wild. Because he's going to be able to do this, I'll tell you why. This is an incredibly short range of motion at a massive leverage advantage. This way you better compare to something like the back lift where you basically get under something heavy and you lift your hips up and your back and kind of just push it off. Then it would be compared to a deadlift. So not much to do with a deadlift, but let's see what he's up to here. Wow, yeah, just look, okay, Scott, let's give him some slack. Who would have tried to stand up with that much weight? Yeah, I see. I mean, he did move it like three or four inches. That's like, I legit man, call that. What the fuck? Ruh. Folks, there is still more video to come, but we have a member section where there's a longer, uncut version of this video and tons of other goodies, tons of my training, Jared feathers, training tons of science videos, getting the membership, it's a teeny bit of money, a ton of bit of value. All right, active video. All right, Nathan Baptist, which is sweet name, is squatting the world record, equipped. Remember, different standards, different judging, slightly different rules set. All of 580, 4.7 kilograms, Scott, do you, what do you think about this lettering that was chosen? It's awesome. Very Hitler, but not great for reading. 1,311 pounds. Again, getting under a bar like that and standing up out of the rack with it is something I can't do and most people can't do and it'll crush him kill most people. This is already kind of wacky in the best possible way. And Nathan Baptist been eaten. Holy shit. He probably weighs 400 plus. He has an insert vast design, singlet on, or sorry, squat suit. Probably multiply. Probably has briefs underneath that, making it three-plies total. And Scott, his knee wraps. We could wrap around your whole body like a f***ing mummy and you would still get lost in the shifts. I'm a big ass knees. All right, let's see how this looks. Yeah. Look, as far as total baller manhood strength, that's a year 11 out of 10. As far as squat depth by any judging standard that you can see inside of a rulebook, this ain't it, like, just a half squat. And people say, like, oh, you have to see the side angle. I don't. This is not a full squat to depth. This has nothing to do with Nathan whatsoever. The only arbiter, if it's a good squat or not, are the judges to give white lights or red lights. This federation that he's lifting with should they be having a discussion with their judges? Maybe. Or they're just going on vibes at this point in which all of it are spent. All right. And then we have Ray Williams. Scott, he might have done more than this since maybe, maybe I'm hallucinating that. But this is his 1,080 pound raw squat, which means what he's a knee sleeve, not even knee reps. So he's getting maybe 10 or 20 pounds out of his knee sleeves and he has a single it on. And the rest is made up for with pure black athletic dominance. That's right. I said, don't you dare edit that out. So this is with very, very strict judging. You guys are going to see that Ray Williams dunks this into the fking basement. Let's go. 477 moves well. So let's go. Right. I'm all. Also, it's very unusual for people to spend that much time underneath a bar of that heavy, getting psyched up. Ray has so much strength that he can just do that and catch that mental wave. Because here's the thing, when you get so much weight on you, you have to really come to like a very explicit point of ultra high, oomph in your head before you move it. Because if you go down with that much weight with anything other than a thousand percent conviction of your own superiority and infinite strength, your body's like this, it's just wants to get out. It's not going to lift the weight. This is what it takes to go to that next level. Big breath in. Holy shit. Man, convincingly below parallel. Even did a double knee band line not. And that's it. Wow. Come on judges. This is good way. Yes. Got it. Thank you, God. Yeah, I remember when this happened and it was a really big deal because Ray Williams is like the rebirth. This is maximum human strength that people just don't come much stronger than us. This is totally wild. The number of people that raw with no knee wraps can do some lift like this, numbers into the several human beings ever. So this is totally wacky. Folks, that is all we have for you for today. Every single lifter that we have illustrated gets hard on ending maximum respect. These people are strong. Whether they go equipped, raw anything between unreal efforts. It just takes tons of balls to do this. And all the rest of us can do is, um, I don't know. I'll just be like, you know. But I also have feelings. And I matter, right? Not really. Guys, powerlifting is dope. I would recommend you look into it. It dumped heels really well with getting jacked. It's an amazing sport. Tons of abilities to compete. Tons of great powerlifting clubs around. Check it out. And remember, when you think you're really strong and got a big ego, Google the world records, Google the videos and realize that maybe you're really the man. But it's unlikely. And I'll see you guys next time. Bye. That was fun. I'm feeling strong with no. Oh, Ronnie got out. Anyway, if you want more Ronnie or anything else, really, get him jacked. That video right there might help you out. See you next time.

And up. Are you shaking? I am. My arms start to shake. No, they don't. You're not shaking. You're not in pain. You're not even working. What the f*** is going on here? What is this exercise? Hey folks, I'm Dr. Mike Isrtele, a professor of sport and exercise science at Leeman College in the Bronx. And I am going to review the Kardashians training. And it's going to be amazing. No doubt. Let's get into it. And then we're going to do a little bit of exercise. Abs and upper body. Heart one. Fitt in your jeans by Friday. An interesting piratization model. Just a week long. Assuming you watch this. What did you watch this on? If you're watching it on Thursday, you're like, no, no, no, no. You guys challenge accepted. Show me what's up Kim. Alright, so we're about to work out. You can see that we got our weights. That weight is the weight of two large markers that a kindergarten would use. And she has a friend. Her friend is quite a bit larger. More robust looking. Larger bones that also has the same nominally weighted dumbbells. It's fine. What we're doing with these. Also, the workout room is an open concept luxury apartment in Venice, which is my preferred gym of choice as well. Okay. Great. Remember Kim, this is upper body. So not only are we working our arms, but we're all going to work in right here to get a nice sleek tummy. That's what you get from working out. No weight. No, that's what you get from dieting. You want a sleek core. You go to the kitchen. You walk out with a healthy snack instead of the entire world. Sorry folks. Had to pop that myth early. Which is you're very dressed appropriately. I know. I wore a corset on purpose because I always forget to suck in my tummy. Huh? Huh? My brain. Yeah, and you want to be careful to not just sucking in, but once you gain that strength, you're going to be pulling your belly button back to your spine. That's called sucking in. If you want to have this feeling of wearing a corset, that's why I always forget to hold in my core. This is a nonsense. I don't know what the point of this is. It's kind of like vacuum training, I guess. Maybe if you're really good at sucking in, you can like always be sucking in when you're in public, so that when like vanity fair snaps the wrong photo from wrong angle, you're still like, oh my god, I'm so skinny. Ha ha ha ha ha. So you go over and up. Good. Keep those hips square. Kims not keeping her hips square, but I'm just being pedantic. I'm trying to listen to the trainer lady. Legitimately, Kim is screwing up this already pointless exercise. She's doing some kind of half lunge knee bend, and she's keeping perfect eye contact with the camera, which I believe is where all of her attention is. I mean, she has like several thousand dollars of hair and makeup on. I guess put the camera where the money is. All right, both elbows hands up, crunch it front, four. It's like a standing crunch. It is. Danding crunch. Folks, sometimes I also get confused. I'll have Samarawan edibles in a, I'll forget which way gravity points. No, wait, I never forget which way gravity points, because it's a f***ing apparent. The only thing that's working in this movement is the back musculature, which is the anti crunch. This is a good way to relax your core. If you simply relaxed everything, you would be doing a crunch because gravity is doing it for you. This is pretending to lift and not actually lifting. No one is betting thinning from this at all. I'm going to have you do four more. And you really, again, you're doing a great shit. Is this the funky chicken dance? Or you just do this? It is. This is good practice for the club, but not for fitness. I see how her belly is going right back to her spine. Belly is going right back to her spine. Hey, kidneys and liver. Ah f*** out of the way. You have reach. I want you to reach beyond your foot. Feel that stretch. Use the oblique. Kim is, again, disregarding instructions. She is currently failing it even the nominal tasks assigned to her. But God damn, she looks good doing it. I feel like she tried a little fitness. And after this, she was like, let's just do it with surgery. And the doctors are like, yeah, yeah, yeah. Don't worry about working out anymore. Like Kim said, it's like you're doing it without the mat. It's like you're doing it without the mat or the resistance or the benefit or the challenge or the effect. So you want to make sure you're not pulling on your neck. Oh, that would be a disaster. If you pulled on your neck with dumbbell holding fingers, who knows what would happen. You could break your own neck. Just trauma surgeons are overwhelmed after this video comes out with women that have broken their own necks. My God, the humanity. And over for for keep those hips square. I like that the trainer lady finally noticed Kim wasn't keeping her hips square. She's like, look, pause the video. Kim and no were bullshitting people with this work out video. But we have to at least get the bullshit right. It comes like, how much longer am I here for? By the way, from an exercise science perspective for the general fitness enthusiast, a first time or to the gym, what has been done so far does not even qualify as a warm up yet. Not that sinkin. You're going to bring the hand to the shoulder in and out. Oh, so this I love this exercise trains what exactly? Yes, it does prepare you to do the macarina. However, again, gravity points down. Nothing points that way for swis. So this is a completely wasted point. Let's move it. That does nothing at all. And you really want to think of extending those arms long so you're lengthening the muscles. Which muscles are your lengthening exactly? The biceps and triceps, which are currently under no resistance at all. Good and working through the back. There is zero back activation doing this. No part of your back is active doing this. The back takes this upper arm and pulls it this way. That's not happening. My God. So just by holding these shoulders here, you're working them right? I'm working them. Kim's like, I'm working on. I got me. I guess she did sort of have a good point that just by isometrically keeping the shoulders in place. You're working them, but you're also totally wasting your time, effort and focus doing this bullshit. And it's just like a crime against exercise science. I think we're all witnesses. In and out. Good. Now really resist again. You guys see that? She said really resist against and she put her hand in the way. Bitch, your hand's not in normally in the way when you're also over there. Demonstrating the shit. So I'm not resisting against anything. How am I supposed to resist? You didn't give me anything to resist against. Nice supposed to be bending my knees here. Yeah. You can bend them, keep them soft. Scott's a video I told me before he killed this in. This is something that starts off terrible and gets incrementally worse. I trouble believing him. But now I'm fully in that belief. Kim's question was, am I supposed to be bending knees? I don't know. I thought we were training shoulders. I thought that means if you're thinking about your knees. Something isn't this. It's like Benching and being like, what am I supposed to do with my toes? Shut up in Bench. What the f***? Hold him up. Turn the rest of their open and what are your favorite things to do. I said. She said that sincerely. Ah, ah, ah. It's Kim a real person. I swear to God, like, a little like Bimbodal AI could do all her dialogue for her. Bits of... Your muscle is significantly bigger than when we started this. It is. What? No, it's not. Your muscle was significantly... First of all, it's called a pump. Second of all, Bits, you don't have a pump because you haven't been training. You're moving around with the equivalent of a heavy glove. I didn't even have a heavy glove. Make a winter glove. You're going to hold it out, pull the elbows into the waist. And up. Are you shaking? I am. My arms start shaking. No, they don't. You're not shaking. You're not in pain. You're not even working. What the f*** is going on here. What is this exercise? It sort of trains the front delts and... I don't really know what else? Oh my God. So now when you pull in, think of making that B-shaped. For those nice, backless dresses on the red carpet. What? Oh, they think this is a back exercise. Well, again, gravity doesn't point in that direction. If you start here and gravity pulls you down into the position, that means you don't have to do any work at all. And the muscles of the back that pull down don't do anything. How about four more for extra credit? Okay. You're going to love me when you're wearing this white arm. Get off. Yes, Kim. Your arms are going to fall off from disuse. Conscious movements. So you're not just letting the weights do the work. It's her muscles pulling. What? The f*** that I just hear. You're not letting the weights do the work. I thought that the weights are inanimate objects that sit there and resist gravity. This is nonsense at the highest possible level. Good. You're good. Yep. One more. She's finally has to counter the resistance of a large. She's like, okay, that's I feel my leg is heavier than this nominally weighted dumbbell. No hold it there and take that heel. Kick it back and now. Good. Oh, we got karate kicks. So we're working the glute, the hamstring. Okay. You're not working the glute of the hamstring because gravity again for the last f***ing time points down. What you are doing is simply that it is essentially a weightless condition extending your leg. You would get a better work out of a f***ing space shuttle. If you want to see the full uncensored version of this video, much more extra content. So I'm stuff we did not put into this video. Our members area is a for grabs. Give that a shot. And maybe we'll see you guys there. Alright. Enough of Kim. That's a hard enough workout for me to critique. Let's move on to Chloe. Cloth it. I love it. In the gym with Oh Gunner Peterson. This is a man that people say no things. Let's find out if he knows things. Chloe is a f***ing big person. God damn. I love it. Oh yeah, her ass is fake. I love her outfit by the way. God damn. The deed is just dripping off the f***ing bone. The shit. The same outfit is like an Orlando pill dealer. Adidas cap. Adidas hoodie. I'm saying to hide from the police. This is great. Yo. Legit. Chloe could kick someone's balls off their f***ing body. Like I said, this is a f***ing big bitch. This is a for real type of bitch. I love it. She's sure a ship kick. This doesn't really help you with fitness. It's also not boxing. But as far as nut kicking is concerned, A plus work. Gunner is like better be holding that ship tight and back in his dick. The f***ing up a way. He has an engine like a one foot oopsy. Goodbye, nut sack. Oh damn. She's thrown f***ing hooks and shit. I like how they skipped all the fun boxing stuff. But now it's time for the booty boost. You feel like you have a nice booty? But wait. The boost. That's what you're really in for. 15 seconds. Oh my God. I don't see flames coming off that thing. Okay. So this is an unstable isometric contraction of the gluteus max and the muscles. And all three of the types of muscle contraction that we can reasonably expect in the gym. Concentric eccentric and isometric is theoretically. And probably practical. The least one. Least likely to cause gains. And any training that you make on stable decreases the effect of the so that training. Because your muscles feel your nervous system feels the strongest when it's stable. It is more likely to really use your muscles with hard contractions that cause muscle growth and cause more fat loss and cause more strength. So they actually modified the squatting motion, which would normally be done on a flat stable surface and through a full or deep range of motion. That would be the way to get the most out of the squat. And they put her on a bocobal and had her just stand in place, which basically doubly degrades the effect of the squat. And I mean this when I say this. Only in the f***ing Hollywood. Can you take a movement that was just your bodyweight squat? And with no equipment, that would have been the superior movement. And you made it worse. You should pay money not to do this. This guy owes her like $900 worth of f***ing charges an hour. There is one way to describe her movement pattern here. Spastic. Not something you want to do in the gym. Because I don't really know what it accomplishes. If you could move that quickly under load, it's not enough load. To do anything except have you look like, I don't know, a spastic bird. Oh, obviously. You can't do this at home. The nuclear regulatory commission would never allow such high power outputs in a residential area. But you can put your pants here. You can put your pants here. You can put your pants here. She tried to let me do my job. You do your job, Chloe, which is... Let me tell you guys about the RP Hypertrophy app. With over 28 preset programs already in the app, you can choose to make your own. You can modify an existing program or you can just run the programs exactly as they were written by E-personals. This app programs everything for you. Exercise is weights, sets, reps, frequency, the whole thing. After every single workout, every single week, the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now, you're pretty interested in the app. Download the RP Hypertrophy app today. Top 5 Cardassian workouts. Probably ranked in reverse. Coach Don says you need to work on you balance a little. And they put the avonics right into the ship. You know, this is terrible because there's seem like they're lunging relatively deep for Hollywood standards. I don't know what Chloe's doing, but she is having real trouble making sense of this movement. The whole BOSUball situation could be replaced with just a regular elevated platform, which is stable. And then this would actually be a front foot elevated lunge, which would be a great exercise for the glutes. But just like Hollywood always does, they kind of f*** something up and make it terrible. Don a matrix training is this company. That's a f*** dope name. Hey, so really super partial range of motion with the triceps there. It's also difficult to stabilize on an intentionally unstable surface. This is a jack. You guys see in that car in the background though, who the f*** cars? That's awesome. Where did you go? Wait, are those tiny children's toy cars? Are they in a children's playground for really rich kids? What the f*** is going on? Woo! I'm gonna throw up this random. If you've thrown up from that, you need like the f*** donated liver or some shit. It was made a decision to do playboy. Cames made a decision to playboy. Scott, do you guys have we looked under this? If we looked at her playboy spread? I have not. I just read the articles. Oh, it's Bruce Jenner. This is when he was Bruce. It's really f*** because Bruce Jenner is the greatest athlete of all time or some shit like that. Yes. And he's probably looking at this where I can be like, you guys all suck. How many calories do I need to burn to lose a pound? I don't know where he's about calories. I worry about sweat. Hell yeah, Bruce. Tell those f*** bitches. I don't really sweat that much. That's because you don't train hard. Oh, the thing is you've been sweating, working. Oh, Bruce. Get him. I love it. That's so not true. Oh my god, what are you doing here? Not working out. Yeah, let's go. What the f*** is this? Oh my god. What is that even pretending to train? You're like dripping with sweat. Oh, you're not. God damn, dude. The shit is tough to watch. Because nothing's really happening. There's no training happening. These people are getting ripped off. Hollywood? I got no idea. Why not a ten? Give me the f*** out of here.

573 seeded press. There's no context for this Scott. It's an allergy. Woo! Julie's Maddox 700 and 5 pounds in Client Bench Press Fail. Scott, this doesn't hurt anyone, doesn't it? Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP's Strength. I am a longtime professor of exercise science. Brazilian Jutsu Black Belt and I have competed in powerlifting before it was a long time ago. I competed in bodybuilding nowadays and I know a good man. I'm a big fan of the band. When I see me one, I tell you what, brother. And today, our special virtual guest studies and person we talk about behind their back is Mr. Julius Maddox. Who happens to be the human who has bench press the most weight with his own two hands that press. At an astounding gazillion pounds. It's 782 pounds. We're going to take a look at that video. We're going to hear him talk about training. It's going to be awesome. And when I said we're talking behind his back, he doesn't know about this. So don't tell him. He's a very, very large. I would be fearing for my safety. Although we will say if you'll quite safe talking behind his back, because there's like a band in planets and space stations back here. Do I see how awesome his back is? It's enormous. I, it's huge. Three, two, one. Huge. Let me really quickly put into perspective what is happening. Every single video you have ever seen of a weight of this heavy and a ball is done with power lifting equipment, special, supportive shirts. It's called a shirt, but it's really this whole technical thing that have essentially huge rubber bands stretchy material in them that help you on the way down and help you on the way up and add hundreds of pounds to your bench press. The number of people that you have ever seen bench press this much weight with just a single it and a t-shirt on is precisely zero because Julia's Maddox is the strongest bench presser of all time, but I'm not done. It's not that the guy behind him is doing 781 and that five people last year did 780 pounds, no, no, not even close. There are a handful of people on this earth and I mean like in one hand that have ever benched over 700 raw ever. The number of people who can bench reliably in competitions 600 plus raw is a handful of people a few dozen people might be able to do that reliably with an any given one year time frame. At his level in the high 700's, Julius Maddox is all by himself. This is a generational talent playing in simple. Let's watch him work. Hey, and that's our friend Andy doing the hand off. Scott, you noticed that? That huge Asian guy in Instagram. He really is that huge Asian guy and he is enormous and strong but compared to Julia's Maddox, a lot of people end up looking quite normal. By the way, for the record, Andy's like 270. So, how come he doesn't look 270 because Julia's Maddox has got to know how much he weighs. This is a 42430. 42430, a real grown man's weight. We also call the average Icelander. Christ, that commanding lockout. None of this. Okay, take it. Just boom, both in elbows. I mean, to say that you don't see this regularly, I mean, you don't see this ever or what I'm trying to say. Out of this world. Life 73 seated press. There's no context for this Scott. It's an out of control. Yeah. Oh, Russ Roney. Oh, I tell you what man. Yeah, you better impress me by the 5003 pounds. Now, Scott, I forget. How many missiles in here is if I won? With it seven? No, no, no, it was Arnold. No, when the bit of 70 was eight. Do you think Ronnie would ever swear like that? Scott, he's a good person. I've never heard him swear. I love him. Yeah, my impression of Ronnie is much worse person than Ronnie. Cause I'm a worse person than Ronnie. Let's just see this. Ah! Scott, he would touch just chin, right? Yeah. Can we get another look at that real friend? I wonder if. Chin level. Here you go. Here, I would be more impressed, certainly if he's a sender all the way to touching his clavicles or at least the interest in the world. Yeah. That's, this is nuts. And another thing I want you guys to, to take a look at, the amount of muscle size in his triceps, biceps, shoulders and especially pecs. And not the width necessarily. But the thickness, Scott, look at his upper pecs and tell me a bullet would go through that if you shot it. No, he's thick boy. Holy shit, that's what with huge bench pressures you often see is the thickness front to back of their pecs is totally mind boggling, different level. Moving the point that contract altitude was what lifts weights, muscles lift weights. And if you want to be a big boy and lift big weights, you got to eat big, you got to train big, and you got to put on some serious size. You do not get to benching seven-hour pounds, you're shit not damn near eight-hour pounds by being small. Oh, busted. Little cookie on the way to the gym. I've seen it all, motherfucker. God, I'm done it. All right. Press me back in 2003, Mr. Lim, I'm done. Eight hundred pounds. Oh, seriously. Guys, I have a confession. I have watched so many Ronnie Coleman-means of his various gym sayings. I have almost nothing in my head other than that. So like, yeah, butter, pound bleed. Time to show God how's going to be done. Got away from you. Big old fish. All that. Water leaves my head. There is only one king in his name is Ronnie. Julius Maddox, 700 and five pounds, incline bench press fail. Time to show God how's going to be done. Scott, this doesn't hurt anyone, doesn't. Yep, so you guys can see the injury occurred on the descent. That is scariest. That is why side-spotting, by the way, is way better than just having one spotter because at least that guy can sort to push the weight off. When we look at Julius Maddox doing 705 pounds in the incline and catching an injury just barely on the way down, I might add, to you this might seem insane. Like, how the, but he benched like damn near 800, how is he getting hurt on one rep? Because it's 705 pounds. Shit, bees, different. Baddox, press me. Oh, do that guy, Scott, the guy in the blue shirt with, I must admit enormous arms. He's like, alright, I got this and then he's like, wait a minute, this is 330 pounds that I'm trying to curl out of the way. And look at the guy, do who's a sumo deadlifting on the other end there. The guy in the black shirt, he's like, look at his face, he's like, I don't know if we're gonna save Julius's leg from this. Yeah, so there, you can see what happened. The accident happened in 2022, MRI showed a tear of three bands, three bands in his rotator and left bicep. Now he's fully recovered. I'll say that's one of the, worship can happen to you in the bench press. But it's a fully evolved pectendon. You're almost certainly never in the modern times, futuristic bullshit aside. You're not gonna bench again, heavy. It's not gonna happen. Bicep's tendons can be repaired and they're only synergistic stabilizers in this movement. They're not actively generating a ton of force to contribute to the movement. So that's okay. Rotator cuff, that kind of stuff can heal, although it can feel really wacky for a while. Oh my god, this sucks, injury suck. Well, thanks, that nice young lady just did it with one hand. All right. That's like a more stuff. I was wondering, I'm gonna show you weight in nowadays. I'm gonna go forward, roughly between going 30, 40, 40, 40, 60, so on between, you know, how tall? 6, 3, and a half. Let's go and check it. No, I'm gonna get out of my face. Check this. And then he's like, check what? And you just stand there, all tough, Scott, do you think that would work? I mean, if you're in Julius's size, yes. Oh, you see. It's gonna do. Throw away your note pad and your excel sheets. The RP-high-perchography app has all of your workouts displayed in one place with guided videos on exercise techniques and a program that evolves to better suit your needs, the longer you use the app, all you have to do is follow the plan right on your phone and get the gains. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. If you're my size, he's like, no, you're gonna do it. I'm like, okay, mister, you seem quite large. Let's do it. About six foreign shoes. I don't know if this is gonna work, but... They might break it work. Let's see if it does. I'm gonna break this. Yeah, that's good. Good enough. So this size, clip we already talked about as size, but this is very important to set up the next clip. Okay, that's the happened. Okay, 430-ish pounds. Okay, I will rest in time. This is a meeting. Okay, I'm gonna go ahead and move on. Okay, okay. Hey, look at these hands. Yeah. I'm doing this, huh? Ah! What? Folks, if you haven't seen our Andre's Maya video, we have one. It's right here. Give it a click. The Russians always come up with some freaky shit. I got the low end of that gene pool. Scott, his 4-finger looks like a banana. It looks like you're holding your grandma's hand or something. Yes, like what? And that's, Julia's the 6-4. Like what? Oh God, that's not his 4-finger Scott. That's his middle finger. Yeah, yeah. Oh my God. Can you see his 4-finger just poking out of it? Yeah. That's sort of you've... Wow. That's wild. That's insane. All right. We're going to work up to about 700 pounds for some reps. Hopefully we hit a PR today. Hey, people that don't warm up. You're no better than Julius Maddox and he starts with the bar. That is my entire argument. Go warm up. Oh. Whoa, Scott, is this accessory work? Is he just warming up so warm up? Very cool. So here's the thing, guys. Warm ups, escalate, potentially exponentially, definitely at least linearly with how much weight you're lifting. Here's what I mean by that. If you're going to curl the 15s, what you might do is nothing at all and just start curling the 15s. What you might do is curl the 15s for 5. Rack little by substratial and moving around and then hit it for, you know, sets of 10, sets of 15, whatever you're going to. Or you might just like lift the 2 1 1 halfs or even the 5s for a few reps that just kind of moving around, rest a little bit, hit the 15s and then go. When you are benching close to 700 pounds, there may be a sum total of like 10 warm upsets to get you there. It might be some stuff with dumbbells, it might be some mobilization drills, it might be starting at the bar and adding a plate for a rep or two each time all the way up to 675, God knows. The amount of warming up physically tissue-wise you have to do when your enormous is bigger. The amount of potentiation of waking up your nervous system, you need for one rep max limits is all of it. So you can't scrape anything by and the safety margin you get off of better technique and the more lifting margin, of course. And off of the fact that you're physically warmer and your tissues are more pliable is enormous and worth every single thing. So if you're looking at this like, dude, it's guys gonna be warming up forever. That's true. You don't need to do that if you're deadlifting 315. If you're deadlifting 315, pull 135 for a set of 10, pull 225 for a set of five, put 315 on, do it for a single or double, leave it alone, do rest two or three minutes, then, you know, put on your verse of ribs, get in there and just start and man handling it for whatever set of eight or 10 that you want it to do. That's totally cool. But if you're benching 700 pounds, I mean, you're gonna be in the gym for a while just to get to benching 700 pounds, I used to do a lot of training with Mr. Chad Wesley Smith, it's one of the greatest power lifters of our modern era. And he, I watched him work up to 700 plus for reps in the squat on his way to squatting, I think 90, 90 at a meet. And I swear to God, I had done half of my leg workout. It was 45 minutes into Chad's workout. When he finally did his last warm-up set before the actual squat sets had begun. It was 45 minute warm-up, guys. He didn't do any kind of weird mobilization, anything he could have and that would have been totally fine as that level, your body needs what it needs. He just hung out in the power rack and put one plane on a side squat on it, rest it for a while. His thing is relative to other big power lifters and Chad at the time, wait about 350 pounds. Chad is actually really high work capacity and moves fast. A lot of other guys move way slower. There's a thing in power lifting where you will do one and a half hours of warm-up plus one or two or three attempts at a heavy lift. And then the rest of the 30 minute at the gym for that sum total of two hours, you do like a couple sets of 10 and accessory work. That's all. Warming up is incredibly important, the heavier you go. Period. Folks, back to the video in just a second, but if you want a longer, less edited, more perverse version of this video, tons of awesome extras, like in the gym training footage of myself and Jared Feather, I-FB pro, you can find it in our member section, which is just to click away. All right, back to the video. What's up? It's so odd Scott to see 225 move like the bar. In the bench press, that's weird. That's weird. Has he, do we have any videos of him doing 225 for reps? No, I don't know if you noticed how that was actually leaving his hand. Did you see that? No, can we go back? No. Oops. No, I'm sorry. I love it. I love it. Listen, out, 315, you guys will notice he starts to incorporate leg drive. Leg drive is a big part of competition benching because what allows you to do is to start, you basically push a pulse of energy, using your legs, your glutes, your quads, and you push into the ground. And the way physics works with every action as an equal and opposite reaction is you get roughly equivalent pulse of energy back up through your body. Like the reason you jump is you push into the ground and the ground pushes back and then you jump, right? So you push into the ground at precisely the time that the pulse is time to travel through up your knees through your quads up through your belly and the pulse of force ends up at the same time at your chest level as the bar is leaving your chest. So what ends up happening is a lot of that energy, not all of it, but some of that energy that you pushed into the ground with leg drive is converted into vertical force off of your chest. So leg drive bounces the bar, pushes the bar, launches the bar, off of your chest, that plus your triceps, front melts and chest is where most of bench pressing force comes from. Here's the thing, probably like man, 85, 90% roughly off-hand of the force comes from your pushing muscles, chest, shoulders, triceps. Something like five and in some really, really elite people that have really worked out of leg drive, 15%, five to 15% of the force to have a completed bench comes from leg drive, leg drive is big. And so at Julius's level, if he didn't use leg drive, he might be good for in excess of 600 pounds. He might even be good for damn near 700, but 782's not gonna happen for him unless he uses leg drive. And the best way to use leg drive to develop strong leg drive, as remember, he's a giant person whose legs are plenty strong enough, no doubt without training legs, he could leg press 1500 pounds for reps, no big deal, he has to walk around at 424, his legs are strong as well. And we're not, it's not a max effort push, cause it would slide you across the bench and everything would go straight to hell. It's a little bit of a pulse, he's more than strong enough. The thing with leg drive is technique. You have to practice light benches, moderate benches, and heavy benches with leg drive to get the timing right and to get that motion right. And if you don't practice constantly for weeks and weeks and recently months and years, you won't get as much leg drive to convert into actual pounds on the bar. Me personally, I barely know how to use leg drive. Back when I was a competitive pilot for, I just did static benches, I never used leg drive in my, when I transitioned to bodybuilding, that didn't hurt because I was just like, well, that's the same thing except for more reps. But if I was going to try to be the best bench presser that I could, leg drive is something that I have to master and there's no way to master it without practicing it a lot. So you'll notice on what's got, is this in my hallucinating or is this 405? Yeah, sure, shit is. So you think 405 is so far below as max, because this is basically like a little bit over 50% of as one run max. So why the f-ca's using leg drive look really using leg drive 405? Yes, because he's practicing for using leg drive for 500, 600, 700 and damn your eight or pounds. So easy. Easy. Scott, I want a neck like that. What do I have to do to get a neck like that? That don't impress me. If you were like, hey, um, might go a go choke him out, I'd be like, but, huh. Christ. You guys can see that hole. You can see the pulse travel through his body and end up in the bar. Love it. Woo. Five, eight, five. Five, eight, five. But we'll have you. Scott, you and I are staring at this through like eight different monitors like two years of time separation. It still freaks me out. Yeah, I mean, when did you ever go in the gym and see five guys spot a good bench press? To pair a phrase net, but in eight days, you don't. Or if it's like some TikTok or an just free and it's not spotting or just bunch of dudes around, this is the opposite of that. Ah! No! My God! Scott, what point do you bench 700 for a rap and you're like, I can keep going? That's, it doesn't make any sense. It doesn't make any sense. And if you're on look at each of this, like it looks like a pretty empty gym here. But if you're like looking on from the side, you're gonna be like, oh my God, this guy's gonna one-remax. As soon as he hits that second rap and then that third, I think that's like that, what's that guy that did, uh, that did all the clock, stuff, the melting clocks, Salvadoranoli. Yeah. That's when you're framed, your vision turns into Salvadoranoli painting and everything just slips out. You're like, I don't know. Just, how is this happening? Here we're doing ice-thometric presses for about five or six weeks out from a meat. So basically, you are pressing against for something that you cannot move. And behind that is, you're getting the most muscle recruitment as possible. We want to generate the most motor unit as we can. And we do that by pressing against the pins. You place up bench and a rack. You set the pins about three to four inches from lockout. You press against the pins. Rest for about three or four minutes. Repeat about three or four times. If you want to increase your bench press and cooperate with these, this is all out, give it all, you got a type of exercise. And if you implement it right, like you should literally leave the gym extremely fatigue and be sore for days after. If it's done, right. Scott, those poor goddamn pins. Like excuse me, sir, you're bending our equipment. He's like, I didn't leave a bunch of weight on it. I get it. You're strong enough to bend it with a bar. Like, I'm sorry. This is wild pin presses in this fashion absolutely do work. The real cool story here is the risk to you injury wise from your own muscles pulling apart under the load is there. The risk of the weight hurting you is G-0 because 45 pounds under any, truly, it's not as lost as arms. He could still bench 45 pounds. So the good news is it's really easy to set up. It's really, really safe. And it gives you an opportunity to just, getting a work that'll lock out. Now you can do it at the bottom too. Work that maximum attempt to generate as much force as possible without any of the downsides and risks and honestly with zero spotters. So if you're a person that's training by themselves and kind of like a little shaky setup, you can do reps on your own with some good safety supports. You can do sets of two or three on your own, but maybe unwraking for singles is something you only like. Do you know in a case you when you have a spotter, you can still do high level neurological work. Joe has managed to talk about motor units, completely correct there. You can recruit the highest threshold motor units, synergize and synchronize your whole nervous system to press as much as possible for like, well, six seconds at a time, which is the total length of time you would be moving. You know, when you're an accident, that will have an effect. The only thing I have to say is this fatigues your nervous system like crazy, the nervous system including your brain, because your brain's like, dude, I'm trying my hardest, hardest, hardest, hardest for a media. I don't know, 18 total seconds in a workout, guys. That's a lot. Max muscle recruitment is incredibly fatigued in process. So be careful as to how you dose this, start with just a wrap here and there, every few weeks, and it may be impressive and something that seems to be benefiting you. And this is also a thing that transfers its training most when you're closer to a competition. Like Julia said, five or six weeks out, this is the time to incorporate that careful with the dosing. You don't want to do too much of that, and actually have your bench press go down because you have too much fatigues. But in a right balance of bench pressing and doing pin presses and things of that nature, your overall stimulus could be amazing. Your fatigue and the joints could be a little bit lower and thus the total result can be really, really good. That don't impress me. Folks, Julia's Maddox, phenomenal to get an insight on a training, phenomenal to see some of his best lifts. This is a generational talent and is the greatest bench presser of all time. Out of 10, that's the rating. Look him up, he's got great social media and honestly he seems like a very nice man. But if I saw him in the street, I would run in cry because he's scary and that's exactly what you get for Bencheng, damn near eight-harm pounds. Folks, I've been Dr. Mike, Julia's Maddox, you're the man, and I'll see you guys next time. All right, that was super fun, you guys. We got bigger chests, we benched more, we woke up and realized it was all the dream and Julia's Maddox did that all by himself. Wanna see some other shit that you could do by yourself or with a friend? This video right here might have the hook up. See you guys next time.

There you go, technique. He's got a slowest soundtrack. He's even taken a pause at the bottom. This is excellent stuff. Just kidding, his soundtrack got faster. Oh, f***. As soon as I say something, this moth f*** gets into some bro reps. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. I am an exercise in sport science professor at Lehman College in the Bronx, creator of the RP-Hyperchography app, and I'm going to look at some videos of the trend twins today to see if and how much they know about training and maybe even some special sports supplements. Let's do it. So, you want to get that? Super hero chest. Super hero look, right? He's poking out. Well, I'm going to take you to our tip routine. There are identical twins, I guess. There's two of them and one guy's got cut off sleeves and the other doesn't. They seem to look almost the same. Not so good with faces. Trend twins. I can't believe it's happening. All right. All right, fellas. Tell us how to train chest. Show you how to grow some actual knockers. I think personally the chest is the best part of a physique when you have a shirt on, you know, because if you got the chest like round and out and you could see it through a shirt, nobody's f***ing right? No one. I mean, chest are cool and shirts. Some people will f*** with you just because you're jacked. They're f***ing far between and usually associate pathic. You know, tells the guys to the club like, hey, I'm walking here. Whoa, which is the kind of high image in the trend twins talking. I wasn't very wrong. Look at this view like through the compression shirt, like all you see is the abs and then the literal tip. And the best part about having a... Literal tip. That's why you're all lift weights, isn't it? And the best part about having big titties is if you wear a pump cover, bro, you don't even have to have ads. You could be fat and the chest is going to give you that fuel. True. If you have big packs, it doesn't really matter what's happening down below. As long as your gut doesn't stick too far out, big chest kind of reps itself, you know? Are we going to worry about Benchier? Me and Mikey, we like pushing. Hey, Mikey, of course one of them is name Mikey. Is it is it the bus name Mikey? Hey, Mikey. Hey, what? Mikey? **** God of you. We like pushing strong, heavy ass weight because if you were pushing past it, let me try to get stronger every time aggressive overload on a mainly Bench compound. If you're going to force your chest to get bigger, stronger, the muscle cells are going to become well rounded. Muscle cells do not become well rounded. They either grow a shrink. Yeah, it's nice. Until the bro physiology hit, I was with him. Progressive overloads great, compound movements are great, especially when you're young, like the trend twins, pile on the weight. Going to be paid attention to technique, make sure the technique is good and the progressions actually result of getting strong and not just wiggly with the technique. Let's see what Mikey has to say. The thing that really separates like the disease is like the density and the muscle maturity. So, density is straight up not a thing. It's just not. Muscle maturity is a concept a lot of people have tried to describe. It's just something you get when you're older. But I honestly think muscle maturity is really just a factor of people eventually getting leaner over time. And when you get ultra lean, usually you're able to do this later in your life, then it reveals a definition of muscle that you just weren't ever prepared to see. If that wrong man strength looks like you're shooting. If we've unlocked that eight years of Benching, we've unlocked this shit. If you can Bench for five bowl, look at anybody bro, they have tips. I think it has to do with the muscle density and the muscle density again. Here we go. Being Chris, you have a lift and our shit is so dense. Genetics, play such a huge role. So let me actually describe to you what higher muscle density would be. Density is how much weight you can shove into how much volume. And how you look is exclusively based on a shape of your muscle and it's volume. It has nothing to do with a density. There's no evidence that muscle density actually changes in training over time with humans. But let's say muscle density was wildly elevated. That means for an external look of some of the ways one 80, they might weigh 200 pounds. You'd be like, how thick do you weigh 200? You only look one 80, they're like, but feel this muscle. And then they flex, then you felt it. You'd be like, oh my god, that's pure hard rocks. And it's like heavy. What the hell? And then I get, but nobody can tell. So you actually end up having a sleeper physique where if muscle density was really a thing, like they say it is, you could be way stronger than you looked, which is, I think the opposite of what they're saying here, they're saying muscle density gives you that f***ing like tank look. But it wouldn't even in theory and in practice and almost sure it should. A technique's very good. Full range of motion. Even taking some pauses at the bottom. What I would like to see is a bit of a slower control on the descent on the eccentric. To first of all, reduce the forces that occur in the transition between eccentric and concentric, which are a little bit probabilistically injurious. Nothing to worry about, but if you can reduce them, that's great. And also by slowing down just a bit and controlling the weight a little more on the eccentric, you probably grow more muscle because it's a great muscle growth stimulus. This is for chest gains, the grow, literal gains. So yes, you can still use your large, but make sure your ass is coming off that sea. Asothassey, definitely. That was great advice. Use the arch. No ass off the sea. Because ass off the sea, it's just pure ego lifting. You're using your hips to bench. Are you trying to grow your hips? Not all of that doesn't make any sense. So generate as much force as you can, but keep the leg drive to whatever it is that gets you stable and then you use your chest for the rest. Asothassey techniques that terrible, it's quite good. A bit rushed. I would like to see more of a back arch. I would like to see more shoulder attraction. That actually keeps the shoulder safer and it puts your chest into a pre-stretched position, which actually grows at more. And it lets you lift more weight. It's kind of the best of all of those things. There's suicide gripping, which I don't have a terrible problem with if you're interested in taking the injury risks to the face. You can get good at it and it's all about leveraging. If you leverage the bar back here, there's not really a way unless you spas out or something that it's going to roll over your fingers. Kill you. Like the way that you, after doing heavy compounds, like to the max, is just when you go to the last, you go blast high virtue for you. After it's like the pump is would you believe me if I said the pump would be insane if you did hypertrophy first? As a matter of fact, if you weren't tired from benching, you could get a real great hypertrophy first and only work out. Oh, no. Come on. You got four in you. Come on now. Three reps touching go at 405 is in competition anywhere between 405 to 425 for a max. I don't know if they're peaked right now or if they're on trend. But it's the always on trend. Mm, that should better be. Oh yeah. Oh, I put it up with it. 455 that didn't go. This is just me talking as shit. When you biff on four reps with 405, there's not a situation in which you take 455 in your next attempt. It's just near just not good for it. And it clearly wasn't. This stuff is fun. It's dope. It go for 455. But as you become older, 25, 30, 35, the probability of you getting hurt on any one of these way outside of your comfort zone PR attempts starts to climb. This going for 455. This is the epitome of bro lifting in the gym. That's why the trend twins are the trend twins. They are bro's to the end and they say some really good stuff. But then shit like this is like, I just wouldn't do it because it's not worth your time. That should felt like a ton bro. I think you just seen your head broken. Did you know that you're nowhere else ever, but in your head? Think about that. Yeah, come on. My hands are way too good. Guys, fundamentally the most important thing after misleaf is you have to have like a loaded six cylinder of excuses. People are pretty smart and they look at you and they watch you miss it and inevitably some of them they're going to start to do their GPT in their head and they go, oh, oh this person isn't this strong as they go a nope right away. You get in there with some excuses and it f**ks with their mind and they go, oh okay, it's just that his hands were and I love that halfway through the excuse. He just abandoned. He's like my hands were like, hey f**k, and you know, whatever the reason that you didn't get 425 is you're not throwing up to get it on that day. And it's not a big deal. If you want to see the full uncensored version of this video, much more extra content, some stuff we did not put into this video, our members area is a for grabs, give that a shot and maybe we'll see you guys there. I really like this myth first. All right, so we're doing incline Smith press very good for extra hypertrophy work, which wouldn't be required if you just train heavy, but I guess I'm being a dick. You can control the weight all the way down on a bar belt. But get really deep. You can get exactly as deep on a bar belt. Very good technique. Very seemingly very mindful. Got his shoulders retracted back. Chastes seems to be up. He's got a slowest centric. He's even taken a pause at the bottom. This is excellent stuff. Just kidding is a centric got faster. Oh, f***. As soon as I say something, this moth f*** gets into some bro reps. Now he's not touching his chest anymore. Just doing the mid range. This is just so you get more reps and move the weight around a bit and feel your swag. This doesn't have to do with anything optimal or growing the most muscle. He's done like what five reps are six reps of this is. Good. Now we're on to seemingly incline flies. I think. Could be a fly press combo. That's a lot of weight. Yep, it's a fly press. So the fly press is something that kind of starts out as a fly. And then as you get deeper it turns into a press. And then as you press halfway up, you finish with the fly. Great exercise. I would love to see them spend a second or two at the bottom. Really milking that stretch and going slow on the way down. Let's see if that happens. No, it does not. They do have tasty juicy packs don't they? Oh, there's two of them. I mean four. They're twins, right? Let me tell you guys about the RP Hypertrophy app. With over 28 preset programs already in the app, you can choose to make your own. You can modify an existing program or you can just run the programs exactly as they were written by eight personal. This app programs everything for you. Exercises weights sets reps frequency, the whole thing. After every single workout and every single week, the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused on technique or form ever again. Guessing right now you're pretty interested in the app, download the RP Hypertrophy app today. Okay, we're on to our 50th exercise for the day. This is the machine fly. He stand kind of upright and a shoulder to stand forward even at the bottom. I would love to see him reach arch back, shoulders back as far as possible to really open up that chest at the very bottom. And as that chest opens, you slow down and pause at your deepest position, which rips your pack fibers and new one and seems to cause more growth than any other kind of technique here. So this is a terrible technique, but it's not to ever find. Oh, they're doing the side angle pack press bullshit. Folks, let me tell you about the section sizes. Inordinately, uncomfortable to do it to get in the machine. It was not designed for to do this. You're also pressing from sort of here to here. There's not a lot of stretch in the pack. And the stretches were more of the growth happens than the contraction. If you contraction not a ton of growth happens, can you get a little bit more inside the chest fiber activation or recruitment in growth potentially by a tiny fraction with this? Maybe, but also like that's what cable flies and machine flies are for and they've already done machine flies. So I would say this is starting to look like junk volume. This whole like taking a muscle and just torturing it, the beating it while it's on the ground. I can't even tell you any more secrets. It's just bleeding out of its mouth and you're kicking it again. Like it's fun for the soul to really like trash and muscle, but it's been shown a few times that at some point the damage is so much itself to recover from it takes away from the total stimulus magnitude. It takes away from the adaptive ability of the muscle. Because your body has one pool of resources from which to grow muscle and heal damage. And there's a balancing act there. And if you go away too much damage, your body's like, hey, I'm not trying to grow anything. I'm just trying to make sure your pecs fix themselves for your next workout. Fix doesn't need improve just fixed to be as good as last time. Oh man, are you guys kind of in the chest exercises with me? It's like exercise number five or some shit like that. Too much in one session. It's not the work I'm against. You've got to split that work up through the week. So these dips are fine again slower, control on the lowering. A second or two at the bottom to get the packs to really stretch, opening up big with the chest. This guys can get deeper than this. The lower you go, the more the stimulus rises and the relative cost to fatigue that you're paying decreases in proportion. So the stimulus to fatigue ratio of going super deep on all of your dips and presses is just really awesome. These, this is an okay technique here. There's a distinct lack of mind muscle connection. You can see his moving his body, turning it halfway through. Maybe for the camera. This is not like a very intense set. Like he's getting the work done, but it's not of a high quality's positioning isn't precise. Every rep looks a little different than the last made it quite a bit different. This is not a distinct cutoff top end bottom end for the range of motion. It's exactly what you would expect when someone's kind of too tired to be doing hard work anymore, but they're still at the gym. So not only did they do push downs. I assume for some number of sets. Now they're doing one arm push downs. Second, try some exercise. You must be about eight exercises at this point. I have no idea they're still going. And to be honest, they're not really going. You can tell there's a palpable difference in intensity. Fine, relax your sizes. I like to end up close to good benches. There's been so much chest and triset work done already. The vast majority of it have relatively low intensity, relative effort. The guys are just tired and they really just kind of blew their load on benching. That I just don't know what it is we're getting out of this close grip work. Now, because it's close grip work, because it's with a barbell, chances are the guys are going to close to failure again. It's my bet you put a human male on a barbell, they're going to go to failure, but again, it's just so late in the game and so stimulus driven that now such huge fatigue levels, I just don't know if it makes sense to be here anymore. You see the grip are really close and it prevents them from going all the way down. That close of a grip prevents you from getting as much of an extension in your triceps and as much of a strategist possible. That's not ideal. I would prefer to see them grip a little bit wider, so they could actually touch the bar to the chest, keep in their elbows flush on the inside, and touch relatively high up. So touch just above the nipple line and that way you get a huge, longest stretch on the tricep. We actually do a video at our pee of how to use the close grip bench to target the triceps better. Encourage you guys to look into that if you want some more technical details. That was chest and triceps. Good stuff generally a lot of good movements, lots of compound pressing, very decent range of motion, but always everyone including myself can be criticized and I would say this is a good, the other dooses could be minus work. Be minus. I know I switched my grading scale from 1 to 10 to grades, but I have a professor after all, so my little hand out actually letter grades be minus, good effort, some stuff trending in the right direction, but if you want that D plus A minus A A plus work, you're going to have to work on cadence, controlling that eccentric more, accentuating the deepest parts of the range of motion, controlling the weight and keeping the reps similar the entire time and of course, arranging the workouts such that they are effective, but don't take 16 hours to complete and are spread more throughout the week. Browshine is brochured, it's cool, that the reason a sciencey folks don't do the brochure anymore is because we found a slightly better way at least. All right, so that was trend twins, chest training. You guys want us to review other folks, let us know the comments who you want us to review and we'll take a look fairly and with a bit of biting, sarcasm, really just jealousy that I'm not a trend twin. Just to all of them, see you guys next time.

And while you're doing this exercise, you want to make sure that the body doesn't sway back and forth. You want to make sure you keep your core engaged. Somebody says, keep your core engaged one more f***ing time. You're going to be honest, man. I didn't want this to sound mean. But the guy just has no f***ing what's going on. Hey folks, I'm Dr. Mike Gözertell, creator of the RP-High-Protrophy app, and a professor of exercise and sport science, leaning college in the Bronx and New York City, of a PhD in sport physiology, which is exactly the science of taking great athletes and making them the best that they can be. So Mr. Tom Brady, you're going to be looking at your weight training today and finding out how sciencey it really is. Roll camera. Am I watching training footage? Or a commercial for a pickup truck via the music? The world will never know. Same demographic really. The Chevy Tundra. It gets what you need done. Yes, I know it's Toyota. Oh. Tom and I have actually been training together for the past 15 years. So the work that we're going to do today is based on Tom's in-season workout just to kind of keep up with his foundation on the program. I don't know how much of that makes any sense. He said it's doing his in-season program to keep up with his sort of foundations. Okay, I don't know what is this off-season or in-season though. So those would make a whole lot more sense. Let's find out. Things that we've done in the off-season to make sure we can maintain them during the course of the season. So we're going to run through nine exercises. Say they're going to cover the full body. I exercise this full body. Interesting. Of course, it's forever warm-up coming up here we go. Any bad sign? Any bad sign? How long this warm-up will be? Half a third. A fifth. If you're really daring and bold. So before each of our exercises, what we typically do with Tom. That's not Tom. That's Christian Bouché. We will just do an active warm-up. It'll just be a quick little banded run. Just so we can stimulate the nervous system. Yes. That's what banded runs do. They stimulate the nervous system. Juno else does that. Whatever exercise you're going to do next, but lighter. And it also stimulates nervous system. And almost the exact same way that prepares you best for that exercise. General warm-ups are usually a waste of time in the weight room. So we're going to do here is we're going to get these heavy bands. That is not a heavy band. That is the f*** lightest band in the gym. And we're going to cross them over. So it's going to form an X over your chest. And then we're going to do a quick-feat quick-hands. And so we'll typically do this until he just feels warm, slightly exhausted. Lightly exhausted is too much for warm-up. Feeling warm is fine. This is a fine way to get the whole body moving. I have no problem with it. You can get almost the same effect by not using the banded all and just jumping up a little higher. But that wouldn't look cool. And your titties won't poke out like this, guys. Big pecks. So this exercise is standing rows. And what we're going to do is we're going to take our... Okay. Let's just cut right to the chase here. Mr. Tom Brady is an all-pro quarterback. He is an elite male specimen capable of truly man-strength if there is such a thing. Definitely exists in the national football league. If you are strong like men, as we say in Russia, then you cannot possibly benefit from standing rows because you are rowing at least your body weight. In standing rows, your body weight is vectored at potentially zero actual perceived load for totally vertical. Or if you lean back a little bit like these folks will, then it's vectored at I don't know. 15 degree cosine that shit. You are rowing like 15 or 30 percent of your body weight. That's nothing. It's not challenging. It's not overloading pro athlete. Pro athlete folks. Also, note one set to failure. Tom Brady is an explosive athlete. Failure training has demonstrated time and time again to do disproportionate amount of fatigue deposition and actually slows the athlete down. Pro football players are the last people you want to train to failure. Maybe after like sprinters and high jumpers. This is nonsense. We're going to get into our correct position here. So again, make sure that our spine is straight. You got to make sure your spine is straight. Even though there are no force factors going through your spine, what are you going to do? Pull your f***ing spine apart. What is this? Knees are bent. Got to bend the knees. Otherwise, who knows what can happen with such insane forces? Tight core. Tight core. You got to crunch out the core. Everyone knows this. Because the vertical forces for the heavy barbell that goes through your spine need to be stabilized so that you're able to translate forces to your legs and back up. And also keep the spinal column safe. Oh, wait. There is no barbell on his back. He's just rowing some tiny percent of his body weight on a f***ing band on the wall. Tight glutes. Tight glutes. I rest my case. And we're going to simply bring these back. We want to make sure that our elbows are tight to our body as we do these rows. Otherwise, who knows what will happen? And what this exercise is going to do is going to engage back muscles. Going to engage posterior delt muscles. That's all very true, but watch this. I just engaged my forearm muscles. Isn't that cool? Am I getting bigger or stronger in my forearms? No, because there's no weight in here. God damn it. He can probably do this exercise. For like, I don't know. Hundreds of reps before he gets to failure. So when he said do a set to failure, this gentleman will not be doing that. Because he can't fail. Look at how fast each velocity of movement is for each repetition. That is some insanely tiny fraction of was run repetition max. You could do this forever. Notice he did not go to failure on the video. Is that what have been p***ing impossible? You'd be doing it right now still. Banded push-up. Once set to failure, I'll just cut right to the chase. For a pro athlete, banded push-ups can be effective. You have to have a high degree of band tension. And the goal that the athlete should have is to try to result every single push-up. He's leaving the ground and coming back. If against a band, you can create that much explosive force. You're really training something quite sport specific. The ability to push m***ers really, really hard. Super helpful in American football, stiff arm, one arm, two arm, do the swim. Whatever it is, explosive upper body is awesome. So if I was doing these banded, I would be doing them for sets of three to six. Mega explosive, tough bands trying to come off the ground each time. That's a train for power. So this exercise is our resisted band push-up. And we do this so that we can isolate peck major and minor, the delts. Why the f***? Why would you isolate anything? And a professional athlete that moves in a super coordinated way. They do basic movements pushing and pulling and grabbing and throwing. Isolation work is for body builders. People who train for aesthetics. Are we still training football players? Yeah, I can't tell. And the core. Got to hit the core. You know this already. The most important thing in life, me. And the idea of time this movement is to be able to do it at the speed of sport. So it needs to be a functional movement. Which is a lot of the things that we do here. Everything is based on functional stability and functional strength. You're not training for function, generally. You're training for a specific kind of function. Herding other people on a football field, performing and staying safe. Training a profile player, remember? This is functional for people who just need to get into a position. Learn how to move their bodies around for the first time ever. And during the season for Tom it's one set max reps. Also this is during the season. This is stupid as f**k. He's actually slowing him down. One set to failure. Luckily isn't much from his Tom Brady. He's been lifting weights. Probably his entire life or so. But it is also going to marginally slow him down. Wow, getting him only some mild muscle retention benefit. Except for those rows. Those rows do nothing at all. So this exercise is going to be a good thing. So this exercise is going to be a good thing. Those rows do nothing at all. So this exercise is called core rotations. And to begin this exercise, we're going to start with rotation towards the band spine. And keeping your arms straight, you're going to rotate about 180 degrees to the opposite side. Because he's now rotating much. He's mostly rotating through his shoulders. And that actually through the mid trunk, which is where you want to rotate from. You're going to also want to be able to pivot your legs when you rotate. Because that's how athletes rotate when they're actually doing athletic things. This is general fitness for housewives that don't actually want to work out. Combrady trains like this. Unfortunately, I don't think your trainer is an expert in training. You know what I know? I just have a PhD in the shit. You want to make sure that as you do this, you're looking to only rotate your upper torso. You don't want to rotate your mid torso here. Of course, why would you want to rotate your mid torso? Just the most athletic thing you can do. This one makes sure you're just getting good shoulder rotation, engaging core, and making sure that we're staying nice and stable. This is the least athletic thing I've ever seen in my entire life. Is he practicing to clean up a window or some shit like that? I still can't figure out what this is for. So for this exercise, Christian's going to demonstrate our deadlift. BAN did deadlift. Do you know how many BAN tension you would need in order to make this challenging for Tom BAN braidi? One set to failure. My ass. He's not doing BAN did deadlift to failure. Nobody in that gym is training to failure. All right, folks. If you want to see the full uncensored version of this video, much more extra content. Some stuff we did not put into this video. Our members area is a for grabs. Give that a shot. And maybe you'll see you guys there. We want to make sure that your knees never go over your toes. Whatever happen if your knees went over your toes, you could die. By the way, quick, myth, rubuddle. Your knees can totally go over your toes. And if you're used to the movement, it's actually healthy for your knees. It makes you better at sports. And that your nose doesn't go over your toes. Okay. The hell is there to know is have to do with anything. The reason why this is so important is because really for an aging quarterback or any aging athlete. Aging athlete. Here we go. Here's some signs. We want to make sure that his legs stay really nice and strong. Okay. I agree. It's nice to have the legs stay as you say it nice and strong. Very analytical. How about this? A strong as possible since he has an entire career depends on his legs. Weird. When you decide to get strong and you go to a serious trainer, at this gentleman, apparently, you are taught to do heavy barbell training. The BAN to deadlift is not one of these things. Because you're going to do about 500 reps before you tire out. Which doesn't translate to the sport of football at all. The play doesn't last that long. And actually imposes fatigue on your legs and interfering potentially with them being a strong as they could be if you're an advanced athlete. Folks, this is general, mumbo, jumbo fitness training. But for one of the best athletes of all time. This is a sad time. I'm sad. So this next exercise that we're going to be demonstrating is the Byset rule. Does he not have weights in his gym? You're training Tom F***ing Brady. Nice and weights. What's this band bullshit? Grab the band with your hands at about waist level and then we're going to proceed into a Byset curl. So you'll notice that he's bouncing right back down after the top. And he's not milking out the slow eccentric, the negative. And that's actually a very muscle growth promoting part of the movement. So even if the goal here seems like it's to get bigger Bysets, which I assume is the only possible reason they could be doing this exercise. It's a fine reason not for an in-season athlete, but whatever at this point, even the stuff they are doing that's the wrong stuff. They could be doing it more correctly, more properly, more effectively, more thought through. There I say more hypertrophically. And while you're doing this exercise, you want to make sure that the body doesn't sway back and forth. You want to make sure you keep your core engaged. If somebody says, keep your core engaged one more f***ing time. Guys, keep your core engaged is kitch from the 1990s. It's nonsense when you have a sufficient amount of weight on your back or in your hands and your off balance. It's very easy to teach you how to keep your core engaged. It's very hard to teach you how to keep your core engaged when you're doing nonsense band movements that don't require your core to be engaged. You don't just turn on your core for pretend. You turn it on when you need it. If you have like 4x4, 4 wheel drive, you don't have to have it on pulling out of your driveway. But when your Jeep is almost off the side of the road, you will know it's time to turn it on. God dammit, this is pretend lifting. Then to try some extension, one set to failure. Again, all of these lifts will be better done with dumbbells or barbells. Because bands do not allow the highest forces at the stretch of the movement. They allow the highest forces in the contraction and point of the movement. And we want the highest forces at the stretch because that's been shown time and time again and the direct scientific literature to cause more muscle growth. Again, it's very important to maintain feet shoulder with the part. That's not true. You can do this with your feet in a variety of positions. Your abs are always going to be engaged, glutes are engaged, knees are slightly bent. Ideally, you would not bend your knees at all. That's extra energy drain. You should actually lock your knees out on the stretcher size. If you're lifting to try to accomplish the most tries up growth that you can have. This exercise is the deceleration length. And as you get into that lunge, you want to make sure that you control the deceleration of the lunge. So you've got to activate your core to help control that movement. No, wrong. Your core pulls your forward. This is a fine exercise to do if you're into adult fitness. You're untrained completely. You have no equipment or access to equipment. These are all the opposite of Tom Brady's reality, by the way. Let me tell you guys about the RP Hypertrophy app. With over 28 preset programs already in the app, you can choose to make your own. You can modify an existing program or you can just run the programs exactly as they were written by eight person on this app programs. Everything for you. Exercise is weights, sets, reps, frequency, thought, whole thing. After every single workout on every single week, the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now, you're pretty interested in the app. Download the RP Hypertrophy app today. So again, the bandage holder press, he's moving around really quickly. He's not focusing on the mind muscle connection. He's not controlling the centric, the negative. And this is just going to result in a higher degree of effort for a lower degree of growth than you could otherwise achieve by focusing on properly moving. Sadness grips all of us. Expand squat. We can do it two ways. One, which is the way Tom does it, is we will put one band around your knees. Then you're going to take these bands, you're going to put one in one foot, cross over to the opposite shoulder. If you can put on a band like that using your arms, it's not strong enough to challenge your legs. How do I really know that? The lower you squat down the less the band's actually do anything. That's the opposite of how it should be. Take this band, press it up to the opposite shoulder. Do you like the music? Are you ready to do a band workout? Yeah, I guess man. Yeah, Tom Brady does it. Do you like the music? Man, he is bands. And by the target demographic yet. And what we're going to want to do here with this exercise again is we're going to want to make sure that your knees never go over your toes. Okay, knees never go over your toes is a pure undedal traded myth. If you are promulgating this in the year 2023, I can tell you there's a very low probability that you really know what you're doing. This is starting to sound like an insult video to Mr. Guy here who trains Mr. Tom Brady. And I'm going to be honest, man, I didn't want this to sound mean. But the guy just has no clue what's going on. And that your nose doesn't go over your toes. This exercise is meant to strengthen quads, hamstrings and glutes. The squat does not strengthen your hamstrings. Your hamstrings work antagonistically to your quads and the squat. It would be very challenging to train in both at the same time. I'm the remension of biomechanics should make that realization obvious. You are paid to coach a professional football player to peak of his career. And wonder how much this guy gets an hour. It's got to be over a thousand dollars an hour. Is there justice in this world? Oh my god, finally, the liability. So at the beginning and end of all of our workout sessions, we always do liability work. One is to stimulate the nervous system and activate good blood flow. You can tell he's making shit up. So before we do any of our exercises, we'll take a few minutes and we'll use our vibrating liability roller here. High-braining, liability roller. Now you have my attention. Doesn't it? How big is it? That's a... That's a... I'm just saying. Before every exercise he does this, that's really insane. That's a huge waste of time. And what's nice about the vibrating on aspect of these rollers is that what it's else should do is it's stimulating nervous system. So we're getting a great nervous system response to the aspect of the tension of the rolling. That's make belief nonsense. What does that mean in nervous system response? You guys, why see my nervous system response? Touch detected, touch detected, detected detected, detected detected. So there you have it. This is Tom Brady's in-season workout. That ended really anticlimacticly. In-season workouts, folks, just to reiterate, need to conserve strength and power and a minimum local muscular fatigue going very far away from failure, producing either high velocities or high forces, but never proximity to failure. Because we want to conserve muscle and strength, maximize strength and power. And at the same time, do it with a very low systemic demand because Tom Brady has to work out from practices and in-season play. We need to be really recovered because every game matters. This is a workout that is instead targeting very general fitness for people that maybe never been to the gym and just want to start working out with man's at home for the first time ever. It cannot be a larger separation between what would be optimal from Mr. Tom Brady was actually illustrated. I have no idea which weight is up anymore. Mr. Tom Brady seemed like a nice man. Mr. Tom Brady's coach, you also seemed like a nice man. Best wishes to you find gentlemen. See you guys next time. What's the rating? How's shit rating? Why not a 10? Why not a 10? For a professional football player, why not a 10? The one is for like, hey, you're doing some workouts. That's good. That's it. See you guys next time.

WOOOOOOT HUM HUM HUM HUM HUM HUM! Typically for breakfast, I will have a bowl of porridge. If I am not bulking, I'll skip lunch. And then, for dinner, every night, I'm going over to my brother Sam's house. And eating whatever it is that he's been cooking. Sshhhhhh. I'm just kidding, I'm ridiculous. I love that this was supposed to be informative, but he's like, yeah, I'll search for it. I eat like a decent breakfast, I call. I don't eat lunch, like, okay. I eat whatever that want for dinner, my brother's amazing cooking. It's very, very fun stuff, so that's why I've been doing this in it. Oh, I'm great. They weren't so much. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength, I am a former professor of exercise and sports science, a jujitsu black belt and a bodybuilder. And a person who has been struggling with balding, but is unwilling to admit it yet. And that gives me zero things in common with today's real star, Mr. Tom Holland, who is believe it or not, not from Holland. But because he's gorgeous and beautiful and perfect and a wonderfully accented, posh, British man, we are going to his own inn and lens in, whatever that is, onto his training a little bit of his diet and some of his tips and see if we can expert our way into relevance and clicks. Let's go. What should go to work out when you're sure on time? I do a CrossFit workout called Cindy. One of my favorite things about British people is that they don't say named. They say called. You were named Scott, no, no, you were called Scott. It's called Cindy. And okay, who is Cindy and does she have big titties? Let's find out. It's five pull ups, 10 push ups, 15 squats, as many times as you can in 20 minutes. And it's great. Like you don't have to think about anything, you just count your rounds. Sometimes if I'm feeling really tired, I'll do one round on the minute every minute. This is a really good workout to do at a pinch. Why? It hits many of the muscles of your legs. It hits a lot of the muscles of your pushing complex, chest shoulder triceps with the pushups. Lots of the pulley muscles back, biceps rear delts with the pull ups. And so we're left with like posterior chain, like lower back hamstrings, is really kind of the only thing super missing from that, maybe traps. And so if we were just to add one pulling movement into there, that's a relatively heavy, like a high rapid deficit deadlift, or stiff leg head deadlift, this workout would be amazing. And I love that he's doing rounds of this as many as he can in 20 minutes. It's a really cool to be able to cap your workout time. You're like, I'm leading in 20. Now let's get after it. Minimal rest, crossfit is awesome for this specific purpose. If you want to tune that high-perchrophy up a little bit, making sure to take every single one of those sets, not two, five, 10, 15, whatever the number is, and then going and resting and then going again, but close to failure. So if you can do pushups very close to failure, pullups very close to failure, body weight squats very close to failure, whatever kind of goblets squat, and then some kind of stiff leg head deadlift close to failure, and then do rounds of that. It's gonna maximize the metabolic stimulus, minimize the time spent training, and get Tom Holland to show up to his next, golla, I'm the red carpet wearing a little something skimpyer than usual. Scott, do you ever look at male actors and you're like, my god, I mean, never, like, never, I'm so straighter. I'm, and the internet. I'm, yeah, guys are gross too, right? They got guy stuff. This is a great workout. Could be modified for optimality, that's why we're here. This is awesome. He is okay, so he's doing some gymnastics stuff, looking like a little iron cross attempt, maybe. Whoa, look at that control. Yes, yeah, look at that control. Wow, okay, so iron cross is actually quite dangerous. Like, they're just physical activity in exercise, they're not crazy dangerous, safer than basketball, but, you know, there's a crap load of tension on your triceps, your biceps, your pecs and your lats, especially the tendons, all the way in that bottom position. This is something you have to get well conditioned for. He did an absolutely great job. Is it a good way of training? No, this is a way of showing off, but hey, when you got it, you got to flop that shit. Plus, you know what I'm saying? You got to wrap out for the 50,000 girls you can never hook up with, because just just not that much time in your life. Oh my god, he does gymnastics things, and he's twirling. Is he getting ready for an ice dancing film? Oh, cool, that's one of those things that people do. Oh my god, is the wind really high and it blew him away, because he's so small. This is cool, man. Yeah, this isn't just like Hollywood Jacked. This is like real life competent at movement. Very, very impressive. And if you want to integrate, what's that? It's like real spider-man. Like real spider-man, bro. Like for real for real, man. I hope I get his web shot at me and I'm... But it's white, the story I've done. Oh. Oh, let's go with that. He's like, you think I'm doing overhead squad. Or head lunge. Ha ha, JK. I'm doing something else. I was wacky. You know, there's nothing wrong with doing some fun stuff. It's kind of weird. But if you want the fastest results for your physique and your ability, everything you do should probably have like a good reason for doing it. Like someone should be able to come up to you doing the lunge thing and be like, what are we targeting here? And whole body's totally good answer in context that sometimes people just kind of do wacky stuff and they sort of expect results. I think in Hollywood and in real life when you need results results, you don't want to do stuff that for sure causes like the most muscle growth, the most fat loss, the most range of motion, expansion, the best effect for your joints, your strength. And then like if you have all those situations sorted to where you're like, I'm in a really good shape. Doing other stuff, crossfit workouts, gymnastics stuff. What a lot of conservative gym folks would call, gary, uh, all, and good fun. Um, I think that then opens up the world to all that stuff is just participation for good vibes. What I don't like to see people doing is people who don't have maybe amazing genetics, people who really need results kind of sooner than later, although motivationally tend to try to quit. They get invested into training philosophies that have all these kind of random movements. And unfortunately random movements give you sort of random results. Not as great as could be. And so a few weeks persisting into these movements. Like it's fun, it's wacky. They don't see those results. And then it's gonna be like, ah, this exercise is dumb. So just a cool friendly reminder like, um, saying, get yourself the RPA, purgify app program all the shit like, you're very, very logically, you get awesome results. And then after that, you can take your cool, new awesome body and do a lot of other stuff with it as well, because maintenance is a lot easier than getting there. Just kind of a quick, real thing. All right. We got pull ups. Whoa, what's up Marissa, Linda? Hey, Max, can we get a Marissa, Linda plug into this? Because she's actually really, really good at this. Um, again, perfect example of like this is dope. It's gonna have a training stimulus for sure. But just do and regularly go to all fashion controlled pull ups for sets and wraps and adding weight over time. Really interesting or ability over time is gonna work better. Then this kind of stuff, this nothing wrong with it. It does make for really good clickbait videos. Here's the other thing. When you're doing that demo exercise, it's really dope. And you can hang in for a long time. But if you're trying to get better at pull ups, the weight and the reps are gonna go up, up, up over the months and the years. That's a great thing. This is gonna get your back jack. You're gonna get that V-Taper. You're gonna be really competent. A pull-ups, your joints are gonna feel great. The thing is though, as you get really, really good at pull-ups, especially if you're trying to be a little bit more of a heavy muscular king, your grip is gonna be the limiting factor. And they actually, um, we're gonna have spider-man have built-in Versa-Grips, which is a product that we're promomiting and we use all the time. And it's amazing. Woo hoo hoo hoo hoo. Mike, it's me, it's you from the future. The future! Listen, uh, two things to tell you. One, um, Versa-Grips also makes the hyper belt, which is an amazing belt. And the first belt ever designed four-high-perchrophy training for muscle growth. It's super adjustable, it's super snug, it's comfy, it doesn't bite down into you. And it's taller and thinner, so it contours your waist so you look sexy as hell, while you're getting sexy as hell in the gym. And the other thing is, um, uh, Jennifer, do not go on a date with Jennifer, do not do it. All right, um, buy more in video stock. So right now, I am actively trying to put on as much weight as possible. So for me, a cheap meal is actually a really good thing, so I have cheap meals all the time. Isn't that fun to say, Scott? Oh, yeah, must be nice. Must be nice. Why, why say, must be nice. Most people can gain weight really easy, losing weights really hard. Very few people, but they do exist, have trouble gaining weight. And then for them, eating a lot is actually some combination of challenge, plus also like, nuisance. Um, when you're stuffing yourself and your body's like, now you're good and you still have to keep eating to gain weight for a roll, that sucks because if you think about it this way, if you're dieting, if you know all your meals for the day, you're just your job is just just do what you're just do that and that's it. It is a hard eat to meals. But when your job is to eat a certain amount of food that you can't get up to eating that much, you can't just quit. You're like, well, I had 2700 calories. You're supposed to have 3,000, you're like, it's midnight, like, get through 100 calories somewhere and you're like, oh my god, eating when you're stuffed sucks. Eating when you're already everything about your body, saying don't do it, is terrible. And I know a lot of people are like, oh my god, tons of girls are like, oh, I can't get my thumb. Okay, baby, you're at it. Why are you bald and like your ears look weird? What? I can eat middle school flashbacks. Scott believe it or not, it wasn't bald and middle school. Hmm, prove it. I try to be strict and healthy. I travel a lot so I find it really difficult to get into a routine of cooking for myself. The routine of cooking when you're traveling is basically a waste of time. Big thing with traveling is you have to figure out what stores, like in London, and the UK, you have like Tescoes and St. Barry's and all those great places. You can just go downstairs kind of anytime of the day or night and get like amazing macro food. There's tons of lead protein options and all this other stuff. Like that, the rest of the world necessarily, but it's tough. And so a lot of times if you really want to be on your pees and cues when you're traveling, taking some protein supplements and bars with you, you know, finding out guillotine advance kind of where the convenience stores are and if they have protein, that could be a big deal. And if you're Hollywood rich, you can get somebody to send you a care package that has like tons of macro friendly food for you and maybe scope out the area in advance that that's asking a lot. I'm always trying to have a healthy amount of vegetables and when I say healthy, I just mean a lot. Excellent idea, vegetables are awesome for you. They have vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals, which are special plant various beneficial chemicals we keep finding out about and plenty of water as well. Just kind of like all of the micronutrients all the same time veggies are go to. My girlfriend's a vegetarian. Name drop. Which is really helpful because it means that more often than not. Yooo! I'll be having a veggie meal. They just keep showing these pictures, Scott. It's cool to be around vegetarians because they a lot of times figure out the veggie shit. That is if they're health conscious vegetarians. Not health conscious vegetarians, you guys are dope, ethically you're doing the right thing but sometimes you eat a lot of junk food. So I would say like not dependable to being around a vegetarian and enhances your nutritional intake but it can be a thing. Scott, I guess just being around Zendaya is probably pretty nice, huh? I think it would be swell. What if he all jokes all over his back? What if she's a f***ing banshee in real life? Like just terror, just pure just pissed. What are percent of the time? Like in just vengeful and just won't let you sleep crazy shit. Kind of like more? How you say that? I knew you'd be like that. Tick-tickly for breakfast. I will have a bowl of porridge. Scott of all the British things you ever heard, the bowl of porridge. What the hell is that? What the hell is porridge again? And according to man's health, nuts are a great way to eat more heart-healthy fats. That is actually true nuts are very, very good for health. Get crazy with the calories so watch your shit. But the kinds of fats that are in nuts are some of the best fats for your health. With a bunch of fruit nuts, a company with a shake. You know he's gaining because he's putting that shake my man. So that would be that lunch. Typically if I am not bulking I'll skip lunch. Scott, how's this for a testament of low food drive? Do I have to eat this like no, like I'm getting really? A lot of people can't wait to eat lunch. And then for dinner, I'm so lucky my brother Sam is a really talented chef. Scott, do you ever brother names Sam that's a town to chef? I have neither of those. That's unbelievable. Look at what's eating. Wolf can jibble to a gravy. That looks amazing. Shut up Scott. So he's been building all of these amazing recipes. So really every night I'm going over to my brother Sam's house and eating whatever it is that he's been cooking. I love that this is supposed to be informative, but he's like, yeah, I'll just check this out. I ate like a decent breakfast that I'd call. I ate lunch, like okay. I ate whatever I want for dinner. My brother's amazing cook. You'll have to like with a no pad like things I learned from Tom Hollins diet that can make me jack you're like, this is why I left the sitting. This was like a man's health exclusive. I left the site to his diet. And it starts out like yeah, that's in the site. And no, it's like a truck when it's full-divine. Like the guy learned actually. I'm not sure. But I've been using this container of meat. I don't give a mean the whole thing. Oh, you're going to die. So they used to be a sign of wealth and strength if you're like, like that. Nothing's of very intelligent. Which can range from sticky bowel. One, it's getting a ridiculous amount of food. It looks great. You know what I'm saying? To a traditional roast dinner. Scott, on a scale of one to British times a thousand, a roast dinner. A porridge and a traditional roast dinner. Nothing like porridge and a roast in it. Any haul comes out of nowhere. Eat some haul into it. Now that's British. You let a wank. Now he wouldn't say that. He might. So, you know, a chicken very unique. Chicken what? What? Scott, how come we all hear eating chicken and broccoli and suffering and crying in our food while he's having chicken beer and ease? Is that appropriate of? Should we be worried about that? Did the beer and ease peoples have no choice but to serve the British chicken? I think it's chicken to fair on eat. Which is a bad situation. Wait, wait, wait, wait, did the very neat people have to know choice? God, he's eating French food, my man. So, it's very, very fun stuff. So that's why I've been doing recently. Cool. Ah, great. We learned so much. Thanks, Matt. Thanks, Matt. Thank you. Thanks for everyone. Guys, we have more video right after this quick message. Here's the message by the way. We have a member section, a longer, less cut-up version of this video will appear. Tons of training logs, tons of other science stuff. Get the member section, click on that. Alright, back to the video. I'm very lucky. Flash this and I'll be sure to hit him. That my default setting of my body is there. Is adorable Harry Potter look alike? If I don't, yep, train an eat, I lose weight. Yeah, very rare. Um, I'm very rare. I would say off-hand, fewer than 10 to 20 percent of all humans can pull this off. Most people when they just do whatever in a very modern, obiesogenic food environment will gain that sort of infinitely based on the data for a while anyway. And so, it is kind of cool that if he just kind of backs off, he just gets skinny. And then if he, if he like eats more protein, eats more calories, starts training with weights, he gets a little more jacked. The thing is though, you say, oh my god, this is all loss on us. No one's like this. If you are trying to get bigger, you have pretty decent genetics for eating food. As you get bigger, bigger, huge genetics sometimes can't keep up. So like if between 150 and 180 pounds, you had no problem eating to gain. Between 180 and 190, you might run into be like, dude, I used to be able to put it down. But now that instead of eating 2700 calories to gain, after you 3500 calories, you can turn out like that's really hard. And so, Tom Holland's tips for like eating taste to your food, making sure to add some protein shakes into a few meals, and most importantly, being consistent about it is actually really, really helpful. Even for folks who are trying to get really, really jacked. That whole consistency thing and the knowing thing is a really, really big deal. Because a lot of times when you're busy and doing cool shit and dating is an endire, you can like forget that everything exists probably. And you're doing shoots, you're doing signings, whatever famous people do, going to Epstein's Island, you're like that. And like, I don't know if they have like a protein snack section of Epstein's Island, probably not. And so if no one's reminding you, hey, you got to eat it for PM. If you're not naturally inclined to it, or if you aren't actually inclined, you've been getting weight for a while, stuffing yourself in your no longer natural inclined, can be really tough. It's that thing of like, for me, Scott, do you have this internal thing now in your body? Where every like three to six hours, you're like, part of your brain is like, hey, I don't care if you're hungry, but you should eat protein. Do you have that? Okay. So this is just like habit formation over years of the shit. That habit of like, hey, every three to six hours, something goes in your brain. Like, I should be ingesting at least protein. Like, I'm going to have four meals a day. Come, out of high water. That's a big deal. And Tom Holland is really talking about how important that is. And it is critical because a lot of people say, man, I'm going to eat. And then three months later, like, sort of pretty similar a little bit more jackal bit leaner. And you're like, how's the weight gain? And they're like, oh man, you know, let's just start it out good, but, but, and it's always the same thing. I've been missing a few meals here and there. You got a fast metabolism. You don't have a ton of hunger. You miss a few meals. There's no mass game phase at all. Big deal. I take supplements depending on my fitness goal. Oh, this is easy. Scott, should I just guess them? No, go in. Based on his physique here, I can tell he's not a lot of growth hormone. You can see his puffy eyes. He's going to get in that REM sleep. I can also tell who have a little bit of his like forearm veins. He's on wind straw. You don't get veins like that until you're on wind straw. And the way he's answering the questions kind of seems like, Skye, see is kind of looking off like to the left. He's like not having a yeast. And pist, that's at least a gram of trend. So I would say it's probably what he's taking. Otis the assessment though. Whatever bullshit he's going to lie about. He's probably eaten ties. Skye, he's probably like, liquefying tires and injecting them shifts. You know what I'm saying? These Hollywood. So right now, I'm on a pretty steady flow of creatine. Great, creatine's great. Um, and creatine, five grams a day. My hydrate is awesome for everyone. I'm protein. Ooh, here's a question. Do you need to supplement protein to get jacked? You actually don't. You need zero protein supplementation as long as you get enough protein in your daily diet. You don't actually get any more jacked from supplementary protein like powders and shakes. Then you do from just food protein like chicken and steak. However, getting in enough protein can be very challenging for many people. Sometimes challenging to like technical constraints like logistics like I don't have any protein here with me and a phantagena shot or phantagena. Vard's all good to go. But a lot of times it's an appetite thing. Like, you know, or just eating with friends like you go to a dinner you go to a breakfast drought to lunch, blah, blah, blah, and you're like, man, if I keep this up, I'm at like 100 grams of protein a day or 80 or some shit. Two shakes through the day. Two 40 gram way shakes. You're at exactly the amount of protein you need. No problem. So shakes aren't just magical thing that's going to pound muscle on you. Scott, the first time I ever tried like a protein shake, I was like, get rid of the relationship, bro. I was like, yes, yes, I'm no longer natural. You know, like a taste like chips. So you knew you weren't natural. You know, like, this is definitely medicine because no one would ever make a chocolate shake taste like this. Unless they were just being around or it's literal medicine. And I was like, hell yeah. But it turns out like just get the same thing from chicken. I also take a protein shake in the morning. Morning. I'm done filled with all the minerals and vitamins. Oh, he said it's got to be vitamins. Vitamins. If I was a female of reproductive age and let's say Chris Williamson said to me anything front to back that included vitamins. By the time he started saying the S part of vitamins, I would be completely naked and clutching him. It's reasonable. reasonable. That you need to be living a healthy healthy lifestyle. Yeah, that's kind of about it right now. Protein, creatine, plenty of good food. I'd say this is can swell, man. This is really good stuff. My mission often on this channel and on this show is to have some fun. I mean that kind of just ends up happening. And to take some of the really good insights and gems that people have in really let them bloom, really explain the science of why. And then take some of the stuff that's maybe wacky, maybe not so effective and say, hey, that's really cool. But another way you could also try to do this is this. And that's how I'm allowed to sleep at night because I maintain the illusion that I have a positive attitude and I'm not just a piece of shit, grifter, trying to sell hypertrophy, abs and subscriptions on videos that used to do a lot better than this quite frankly. It's got an idea of what to do anymore. Guys, this is a cry for health. This is not a joke. I have clinical depression. Scott, what else is cool for me to have that gets me sympathy? Oh, yeah, depression trauma. Trauma. I'm traumatized. Because of my depression, think about that. Anyway, all jokes aside, you guys. This has been super fun. Tom Hansen is a really nice guy. And if you see him, tell him I said hello. I rate this. Many Goddamn logical shit out of 10. I've been Dr. Mike. And I'll see you. Wait, wait, wait. It's my item man. I got you, baby. Please, home. That was fun. I feel like spraying people with my web. No, that doesn't make you sad. This video will probably make more sense. See you guys next time.

Sigh. Scott, do you think if you stood in place and you let Kyle punch you, you would have a good day or bad day? I think it might be that in your days. No, because like Benchink doesn't have anything to do with punching power. Hold up! Something right! Folks, it's me, Dr. Mike, for RP Strength. I am A. Former professor of exercise and sport science. I do not want to talk about what happened at the Academy. Current. Bodybuilder. And Brazilian's a grappler. And a person who actually used a power lift way back when in the day and no, I was never any good. But someone who is a little better than good. Someone who is one of the best of all time is a gentleman named Mr. Kyle Curve. It sounds like you're accentuating the woman's shape I sing at that way. Doesn't it, Scott? Curve. And he is also Curvey, but with all the bumpy muscle stuff. Here's the thing about Kyle. They're strong. There's a very strong. There's legendary. There are three more notches and then there's Kyle. This is a completely different level of strength and intelligent training. And amazing technique. And he's jacked and Scott, I think he's also an IFBD pro. Some people just have it all. What the hell? Year heroes are awesome. But you need to put another person on Mount Rushmore. It's Kyle Curvey. And you might not have heard about him. He has an awesome Instagram. You guys got to check it out because this guy's doing nonsense stuff on it. Let's sample a bit of nonsense. See if you can learn anything. And at least see how baffled we can be that some humans are like this. All right. This is Kyle squatting 800 pounds in a public gym. The thing is, any squats, much over 600 pounds are generally done at power. Loafting gyms. We have extra super thick bars, lots of competent spotters, even a model of which can have kind of railings to catch the bar if it falls. This is none of those things. He has an EO rack which is good. Same same as competition rack. He's walking out which is cool. But eight hundred pounds on your back just going up and down with really no one around is wild stuff. And if you walked into a commercial gym and watched someone do this, it would be confusing at best. It's a very good chance you'll never see this in real life. All right. Scott, I think he cut his depth to hell levels. My man. I mean, this is way beyond powerlifting depth. This is extra credit depth. This is what legit strong looks like unbelievable. And by the way, the bar is literally bending in a visible way. Is any of her pounds? This shit's not going to be the same. The other thing about this squatting with an normal bar is that there's going to be a lot of bar whip, a lot of bar band. I got my BFF pound bar, maybe not. In any case, it 800, it's bending one way or the other. Can you move it? Oh. Oh, oh, he did a double. No. He did three reps. OK. And a fourth. He's doing it. Holy shit. He's a little bigger than the average gym shark. He's like a gym magladon or some shit like that. And by the way, guys, Kyle's multiple world records and powerlifting are I think in the 308 pound weight class. Kyle is a relatively lean 300 pounds. This isn't sane. If you ever see him in real life, it's just confusing what's actually going on. All right. What do we got on the bar here? 550 pounds. OK, dokey. Again, almost no one can bench 550. Your uncle from high school, he could do it. And three of his friends bench 600. Another than mythical make-belief figures, this is incredibly rare. Now watch his technique, full range of motion. Yo, her key jerky. His butt is almost certainly going to stay on the bench because he's a competitive power lifter. There are people who talk about how strong they are. And then there are competitive power lifters who actually prove it in the same shen competition. And that's what Kyle trains for. So almost all of his lifts are stellar. Which means you don't have to be like, yeah, you bench 550, but how much did you bounce it? How much does your ass come up? This is strictness. And I don't even know if it's just come saying this in advance. Let's find out if I'm right. Oh, why not do two? Sure. Oh, JK more reps. Good God. No. Scott that last one. Would you have done it again? He's like, I've got number four at 550 pounds. And he got to failure. Thanks guys. Good God. Good God. Deadlifts. This is seemingly well into the 800s. You will notice that he is wearing wrist wraps. Power lifters sometimes put wraps, not straps. Over their wrists. What that does is you ever try at home, just limpressed yourself and then push down on these muscles on these tendons. And your wrist actually comes in. So what ends up happening is if you put very, very tight wraps on your wrist, you actually get to pre-flex your wrist and a little bit of that tension for those wraps continues to be applied to those tendons. So your ability to grip a heavy load and not be limited by grip is slightly improved. But check this out. There are two reasons why that slightly is a big deal. Reason number one is if you're good for 810 pounds in the deadlift. Your grip is good for 805. You're going to miss 810 on grip. If we add 20 pounds of grip just through those straps additionally, then your grip is good for more than 810 pounds and you will succeed at the lift because everything else is already there. That's huge. The other thing is, if you feel like your grip is loosening, your body automatically through evolved brain processes starts to reduce how much neural drive, how much activation for muscles it sends to the rest of your body. So that if you feel like your fingers are slipping a little bit with 805, but everything is strong enough to pull that weight and even your hands will be able to hold on, all of a sudden, your body is producing less force. Your glutes, your hamstrings, your lower backs, bruise and your spores and your more app to miss it could just felt like you lost your groove. If you have that extra 20 pounds in there and it feels just a little better, you're very likely going to make that lift. That's a big deal. And in many cases, in powerlifting, especially closer to meats, we practice very similarly to how we play. So you want these wrist straps on, same tightness you would put in competition, so you can work into this new pattern and be used to it psychologically, physiologically, and also timing wise. You know, like they say, look, okay, on-deck, Kyle Curvey, he's got to start wrapping his wrist straps around, getting everything right. If it's a new thing, you just do it in competition, you get the timing wrong, you get the last time on the platform, you can miss your lift, if screws your mind up, none of that's any good. So he's wearing full competition set up as far as his wristster can start now. In an alternate world where powerlifting would become a kind or sport and allow you to use, uh, well, I don't know, straps, you shouldn't use them anyway. Not because of manhood and real man are limited by their grip, because of first grips exist. And they are one of the sponsors for today's video, and they're just better than straps. You loop them over really quick, if you have high rep deadlift stew for high purger for work, a bat rose or lateral raises, you loop in those verse grips and they do unbelievable work for you by taking your grip limit completely away. So if he can pull whatever he's pulling with just his hands and some straps, or sorry, some wrist straps, then with verses, he could no doubt pull even more. Scott, let's start the verse grip Olympics. Down. Where it's all the regular events of the Olympics, but they get to where verse grips, and then there's one verse grip only event where we get to the high jump platform and then you put a verse grip on there and you snap pictures of it and then there's an Olympic logo. Nothing happens if you take it off, but you know, everyone tried. Let's say that you were single. Are you ready to pretend? And you are going to be going to the Olympics for some sport. And you know, a sport is fine. It's fun. You got a whole. Okay. Did you even know a question I was going to ask? No, you said I was going to the Olympics for a sport. So I picked Bob's left. Okay, but you didn't let me finish my question. You're an asshole. Good God. Beltless, by the way. Scott, if I didn't put on a belt for that, I would blast vertebrae out of my asshole into that rich piano poster back there. You might blast some other things out, post surgery of the front side as well. Yeah. A few. So he's doing multiple singles here. No, that was a three set. Oh yeah. Yeah. So three singles in a row. More triple. But he lets his hands go. Yeah. Today has finally come that we are doing four or five on-bedged for four sets of eight. Totally forgot. I have one set of three at 455 pounds before I go into the 405. So one set of three at 455 and then four sets of eight at 405. You get a really decent stimulus for strength. We're a kind of track your progress. See where you're at sort of. And then after that, you get tons of volume for, by the way, sets of eight are an unbelievable rep range to get a crap load of muscle size that easily and quickly and with a high percentage translates to strength gains shortly thereafter. So if you are trying to get big for powerlifting, big for strength sets of five to ten is mostly where you should be doing your training. This is spot on. That's just what we have programmed. Right now we're doing a heavy set of three and then into eights. But honestly, I feel like the... Scott, what's up with his hairline? What's your mean? It just looks so distinct. Yeah, I mean, he's got like a fresh fade for this video. He's like kind of lined up at all. He looks like a young Donald Trump. It's weird when some people are on camera, they really like care about how they appear and make themselves look nice. Crazy. Are you okay, Yosuke? I'm okay, sorry. That's something my throat. Nothing me cleaning myself up, wooden fix. Folks, we are going to get back to the video in just a second, but we have a members area. I must tell you about extra nerdy videos, extra training lodges for myself and Jared Feather, I-FBV Pro, and an extended, uncut version of both this video and all of the other exercise scientists videos before this, every Friday show is on there. Alright, enough blabbing, like guys, go, click on links, get some members area. We'll see you there, now back to the video. This is the humble area. This is going to tell a lot about the day. Me, let's take it again. Full pauses fellas, the hallmark of power lifting. And a huge range of motion I might add. Scott, do you think if you stood in place and you let Kyle punch you, you would have a good day or bad day? I think it might be the end of your day. No, because like Benchying doesn't have anything to do with punching power, it's like all from your legs or something. Take your word for it. Take my word for it, I don't know how to punch. By the way, randomly I'm like a riffing on my own riffs at this point. You will hear people say that how much you can bench, doesn't impact your punching power, and all of those people are, respectfully, super politely, totally wrong. The more you bench, everything else being equal, the harder you punch someone, or to be more technical about it, the less velocity loss your fist experiences as it contacts their skull. And that means that total transfer of energy into their skull is more rapid and greater, which means their probability of falling down and not getting back up for a while is much higher. If you have someone who weighs 105 pounds and they got quick hands, they're real technical, they can get you in the jaw a couple times and it doesn't knock you out even if you're a regular person who's larger because they just aren't strong enough as soon as their fist hits, the kinetic chain moves forces back and their muscles aren't strong enough to push back through those resistive forces. And so their fist slows down really, really fast as soon as it hits your head, it doesn't transfer as much energy in, your head doesn't move as much and then your probability of getting knock it out as lower. But if your Kyle Curvee and you hit someone, they probably break into a million pieces like an NVIDEO game because the amount of force transfer is massive. That does not mean to say that how much you can bench brother is the only thing that relates to how hard you can punch. Technique is absolutely massive and the ability to have a strong and athletic lower body to begin the force generation in your lower body, transfer it through the midbody and then expel it out of your fists in a command-based style, JK is ultra ultra important. Technique plus speed, plus strength, all of them matter. So from Magic Genie comes down and he's like, do you want me to just instantly allow you to know amazing boxing technique? You say yes. If he's like, hey, do you want me to make you just like two times faster with your punches? Absolutely. And if he says, do you want me to make you twice a strong? Don't you daily? Like, well, I heard the strength don't know how I'm doing with punching. My boxing coach said that. Even though he smoked cigarettes and did pushups back in the 1920s when they trained for boxing all wrong. First working set, 455, one set of three here. Nice. Let's go. I felt good. Come on. Where are we going? That was impressive, Huscott. Crazy. Just a raw triple with 455 self-spot, self-unrapped. Some random shit was a crappy version of crappy bar from the 1980s. Yeah, just like regular commercial shit, man. Most guys wouldn't do this. This is not, all right, 455. Let's see how it rolls. Rized. That speed on 455 was wild. Come on. Scott, are you scared? It's insane. My butt hole did a thing there that says, hey, you, you, you scare me. Amazing. Pretty insane session today. This is going to be tough. We have 600 pounds for 45 sets of eight. Why? That's what coming up. This is a squat. Yes. Sets of eight with 600 pounds is pure undulterated nonsense. nonsense. You know a quimit. No knees sleeves, no belt, no nothing. That's extra nonsense. Guys, belts help a lot. Meese leaves help a lot. This is crazy. So I've been playing with thumb underneath the bar. And thumb over top of the bar. Scott, you have a problem where your shoulders are so wide. You can't grab inside the bar yet. You're outside the rack. Yeah. Yeah, in or out. I love it, man. This is nuts. And I've been playing with thumb over top. But I just feel like I need to grip the bar. To get this, the true string. And I think there's studies in that grip strength. Yes, if you have a full grip over something, the rest of your body feels stronger than if you have a thumbless grip. For pushing it doesn't matter much, for pulling it does. And being able to feel that bar pulled in real secure. So you know for a fact, it's not moving on your shoulders is a big deal. Thumbless grip can work. It's not preferred and it does take it in use too. And being able to output more and more weights. So was this 400 pounds? Oh. Oh. Oh, I'm warming it up. That could have felt better. Scott, after he did that, if you were the Jimmy, be like, let me tell you guys about the RP-high-perchrophy app with specialized programs included for shoulders, arms, chest, back, legs, abs, and glutes. Each one with male and female options. You get them all and can use them as often as you like, even building off of them to make your own customized versions for only about a dollar a day. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. Sometimes when I'm warming up, it's like the weights in between that throw me off. And as I get heavier, it starts to feel better. Definitely. I would say almost never a judge a single warm-up too harshly. One warm-up, three 15, don't feel like shit. 405, don't feel amazing. 500 will be your work weight. It'll be awesome. Step by step, be very patient, don't over-judge yourself. Hit the warm-ups, pay attention to the cues. Hit the warm-ups again. See how things go. First set. Hmmm, there we go. Forg! Scott, would you be able to do anything other than watch him do his sets when you were at that gym? I'm stopping my shit, man. Yeah, that's a treat. Oh yeah. This is gonna be some work. I think we're gonna do one more to make a climb. Is that what we said we're gonna do? Good God. That was... RAPNUMBER? No. 40, right? 40. Of 600 pounds and it went up exactly like RAPNUMBER 1 did. Okay. Try to get some high RAPNUMBER here. Here's the crazy thing about Kyle. He does lots of assistance work, extra volume work to get jacked. Mostly because he's... Scott, can we confirm that he's a pro bodybuilder? I'm 90% sure. Yeah. And so he's got to get jacked for other reasons, but also one of the reasons he's so strong is because he's so goddamn big and he puts in the assistance work a lot of guys. I mean, it's way more assistance work than he do all month long to do five sets of eight at 600. He's on legs touch a right after. Very impressive. Good blood flow. We're covering any knee damage we did with just a ton of blood in the area in the quads. This is like post-hab rehab after squats. And the good news is, it does get your knees moving around and everything like that. But it absolutely helps with a bit more hypertrophy, so that's really good. Guys. We talk a lot of shit on the channel. Big random bad workouts and bad techniques. We'll be doing more of that soon, don't you worry. But every now and again, we've got to throw in a video of someone who just like, is the man. Kyle's technique is on point. His mindset is on point. His training programming is a fucking awesome. Madam of the real life is a cool last dude. Kyle gets a legend in the making out of ten on our universal rating system, which makes no sense. Kyle, you're the man. Guys, give this young gentleman a follow and if you're in the street. Try to follow him home and see if he can't pounce on him when he's tired and do sexual things to him. What? Why would that ever say that if I wasn't subconsciously thinking it? And now conscious thinking it. And yeah, now I'm in. See you next time. Alright, folks, that was a really fun. If you want more fun to continue this video right here or something, you might want to click on. Until next time, see you next time.

Let's put one key, if, Bailey. These are good pushups. I think you can go a little lower. But you are... AHH! Hey! All right, he's pussy and egg whites. This is another gun! It is. Hey, folks. Dr. Mike here for the RP Strength channel. Uh, what else do I say? Four of us are of exercise and sports science. Competitive bodybuilder. Competitive. So not recently, but I'm getting the inch. Black belt Brazilian jujitsu, grappler, Kia, and also a person who in their spare time, among many, now few other things, watches other people play video games. My favorite channel to watch is the GLID channel, which is a bunch of former and or current various NATO countries and free world alliance, Marines and other military people who actually Scott know how to pupue in real life, playing advanced military and SWAT team Sims, the right way. Scott, does this put me in mega nerd status? That, okay, yes, that was true. But here's what I don't like about watching standard, regular, shoot them up video games, even ones with realistic damage and graphics and simulations and weapons. Is that mostly people that play them just run out into the open and start sniping people, which is exactly how you're gonna get yourself shot to death in a real combat engagement. And I absolutely adore when the shit is done properly by actual train professional Scott. These guys will stack up, they'll clear rooms, room by room, they'll communicate the entire time. That's how you really play video games, technically. And with zero fun, GLID is a sweet channel, check it out. But today, we are gonna be reviewing workouts, found in video games, which I know is absurd. That's why you tuned in on this fine Friday, or if you're watching this on another day, it's cool too. To see if we can't support science our way and to figuring out a video game designer's no workout things, or don't know workout things. Scott, let's roll the shit. GoodF. All right. Good afternoon. Let's work on firming up your thighs and back muscles. Uhhh. You guys, it's good stuff right away. Muscles are not something you make firmer. Turminus is a result of three things. How much muscle you have? You can grow muscle, or you can shrink muscle. Not much else. How much fat you have, which is not something you do with exercise, that's what you do with diet and total physical activity. So if you eat less than stay active, your fat stores reduce. All over your body, you can't spot reduced fat, you can't just reduce fat, your legs and arms if you want, unfortunately. And the last thing is skin quality. And that was mostly like skin care routine, leaking my bio for my skin care routine, which is the RPI-perrophy app. So yeah, firming up your muscles is not a thing. And why am I being a pedantic asshole about this? Because I hate to video game girls. No, that's not it. When you say things like firming up the muscles or toning the muscles, it's cool on vibes because it does communicate something, like communicates again and result you want. But the problem is that it misleads people on how an anatomy and physiology actually work. And so you have generations, and I do mean generations of people that resist conventional resistance training, lifting heavy barbells, dumbbells and machines to build their muscles, they resist conventional dietary approaches of reducing calories for several months and seeing the fat stores drip off. And then they're actually resisting the best kinds of results that get them the firmer look that they want. Because they're under the solution that you don't just grow a muscle and burn fat, kind of pretty much that's it on top of skin quality, they think there's some kind of different way of training that firms up their muscles, but doesn't make them bulky. Scott, how many times have you heard that in a fitness industry firm and tone without the bulk? Yeah, that's really interesting. It doesn't mean anything. And it can be literally means nothing. If you really lens into it, it just completely disappears, thin air. So I don't like this nomenclature firming and toning, this is stupid, but the Wii is cool. And Yo Scott, oh girl, I got some titties, you feel me? Yeah, she's got a body. Her, her like, um, f***. Try to keep your center of balance within the blue area. Ah, good stuff. Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, God, Scott, this is the worst. The rowing squat, some problems. This is what I would probably call a quarter squat or an eighth squat. So the depth isn't remotely challenging to any human that's going to be able to plug in a Wii. Um, you have to do a deeper squat to get to plug it in the machine then actually do an lift. So that sucks. She's also pushing her knees forward over her toes as she's squatting down, which is actually very awesome and healthy for your knees if you do a foreangel motion. But at least temporarily, if you do very, very, very, very partial lifts, it can irritate your knees a little bit, especially if you're not used to it. Sitting back and down at the same time, instead of just sitting forward is probably best. And when you're doing the rowing motion, you have to remember two things. One, gravity doesn't point horizontally since completely unresistored row. So you're moving your arms just for vibes and for no other functional purpose. Scott, you have something missing even if we misunderstood gravity. What is it that there's no weight in her hands? This is exactly what I would call saccharine exercise. It looks like exercise to the untrained eye, but it actually does nothing at all. The last time we saw some, could we like this, was our Kim Kardashian video from back in the day. Right? Like, yeah. Yeah. And so there's a thing here where someone inevitably is going to say in the comments because they didn't make it this far, and they're going to comment and say, hey, Dr. Mike, you're on steroids in an idiot juice head, and you think everyone needs to be eating barbells or whatever. And the owner understand that exercises are welcoming and down for everyone, and should be graded appropriately, and then beginner should start with this, and if it just gets them going, then it's good enough. And I 100% hear you, and I actually used to teach multiple courses and exercise in behavior, so believe it or not, I do know exactly what you're saying, but you're saying it wrong. And here's why. Getting people into some shit means really good things. But if you get them into the shit wrong, in a way that doesn't work, you're risking them burning out and realizing they're not getting results. And then in their head, they label exercises a thing that doesn't work for them. What you want to do is 100% welcome everyone at every level of ability. But you should also make it challenging and fundamentally theoretically effective, not moving into planes of motion, which don't even have forces with weights that you're also not caring. So get old girl, some dumbbells, have abandoned over and do some rows, even if they're 20, half pink, pink dumbbells, everyone starts somewhere. And have her squat down at least half way, at least into a chair, because here's the thing. You put a chair in your eethat bitch, you get it squat down to the chair and come back up. It's great exercise, and if you can't squat up and down out of a chair, you need to be working with a rehabilitative professional. If you're doing this from a video game by yourself, ostensibly you can get scottes, and it's okay to assume that people of play video games like the Wii, which are mobile, and have a VR headset can get into an out of a chair. I think so. Right? And so if you can get into an out of a chair, you're already getting a better workout than this bitch is doing whatever the fat was. No disrespect, I love her little Bob haircut, it looks nice. Try counting out loud. One, two, three. Four, four, four, four, four. It's got why am I obsessed with digital, accidentally, stuttering noises? Autism. Yes, that's his and again. This exercise is popular because it helps tone your upper arms. Make sure to keep your elbows steady. That's it. Feel your triceps getting tone. I like when they tell you what you're supposed to be feeling like you feel like you're working out. You're like, oh, I guess I am. Work it out, it's easy. I love it. Three months later, I don't have any results. Keep your back straight to reduce stress on your lower back. A scot, are they talking about leaning back too much or something like that? We're doing like a continental clean. Max, the editor boy, can you please get a video here sample of Zadronus, Zaviscus doing like a metal block press or an Axle clean and press. Some share where he bends his back. Folks, bending your back when you're standing up, cannot hurt you if there's no weight in your hands. And if it can, you're made of glass and you don't need to be playing a video game for exercise, you need to seek professional help immediately. You can keep your back however you want. And if you have to bend back to your triceps going again, you are so weak that we're talking about clinical grade application here. This whole lake, there's always some shit where people want to pepper in some cues that totally distract you or nothing to do with it. I hate this stuff. Scott, here's another one. Keep your core tight. What the fuck does that mean? Why? What's going to happen to my core if I lift nothing over my head? Cuppotter here. Scott, did you think this was going to be the video that brought us back to the old days of screaming at the screen? I did it. But I love them here for it. This is terrible. Great. Keep it up. I love the total. Scott, this is this face says it all right here. Can we put this on the screen? This is amazing. This is exactly the NPC face. I was going to say, when she was like, keep it up. It's like someone's motivating you in the Wii, but like they just have zero even like digital emotion programmed in. You're doing great. I don't care if you live or die. You're like, oh, wow. It's very motivating. And yeah, once these things these video game exercise people are powered by modern AI, it'll be way better. But honestly, getting a human personal trainer that like disrespects you with their eyes, that's the best way to motivate yourself. Let's work on toning those apps. Scott, if they're standing up for this, I'm going to walk off the set. Extend your legs back. You guys, we have another video you might want to see about probably right here somewhere on the screen. It's going to appear. It's about exercises that do hardly dick and people do them all the time. Rank one is the plank. The plank is stupid. The plank is symmetrically contracts your abs, which is probably the least muscle growth promoting style of contraction, and the one that transfers to activities of daily living in general mobility, also the least. You want to do dynamic ab work. You want an ab wheel and do some rollouts. You want to do some crunches and some sit ups. You want to use an ab machine. This is almost always a gigantic waste of time. As a worse thing they've done here because believe it or not, they've done worse things so far in this video. But yeah, this kind of sucks. Also, if your abs light up red and the yellow and orange when you're training them, you need to go see a doctor. But for real, the way you get abs that you want is mostly through taking three month period, using the RP diet coach app and dieting down about 12 to 15 pounds. Your abs are going to be way more clear. Your waist is going to shrink because the number one thing keeping you for having abs is that thick layer of fat over them. You reduce that. Everyone's got abs. Literally everyone has abs beneath their fat. You just got to burn the fat off. You can do these exercises in a waste of time or you can not do them. And you see the RP diet coach app shameless plug either way. One of those will get your results. The other one will get you to have what now appears to be gray hair from this angle, Scott. And she's kind of got an older on us. Good job. You really pushed yourself. Keep it up. Keep training a little every day to improve even more. That's just wholesome advice. A little bit every day is nice. Every day is kind of like, I don't love that. It's nice. I think people who try to train every day and up skipping a day and then they get a little depressed that they're like lost their streak or whatever. And then they sometimes just burn out. So think a better suggestion is to keep training every day or every few days. And if you fall off the wagon, just come on back. And you'll be good to go. So I love the encouragement. I mean, if you were to train like this every day, you just get really disappointed after a few weeks. But that is what it is. Nice. Come on. Nice. That's a great. Alright. That's a great. Alright. Well, hey, and I've never heard that in my life. That's for God damn sure. Mostly they say, oh, what do they say? Um, that's it. Gross. Gross. Gross. Why are you in my bedroom? I have a taser. I've heard that one a lot. Um, Scott, a common one I've heard is that if you're interested in training as hard as possible, but you want your grip not to be a limiting factor, you can try versegrips. They're an amazing grip product that take a grip out of the equation, allow you to train your delts and your hamstrings and your back musculature to its limit to get amazing gains. And there's a link in the description for a code where you can save some money on versegrips. That was a weird one. Strange girl somewhere in Ohio. Um, she told me all that. And then later we made sweet love. And we used versegrips and our love making. And I don't like to talk about this too much, but the versegrips make an excellent SNM tool. Think about it. It's grippy. What up, Romeo? This is the other gun. Dude. Okay, so first of all, he's got a gun. Oh, this is like the green gang, huh? Like they got to wear their street colors everywhere. And then also their, that guy in the left Scott is not actually grabbing the bar. Yeah, he's grabbing. He must have versegrips real tight in there because with versegrips, he actually don't even have to grab the bar and they still work. Um, damn. Oh, and a mad smoke. I love it. The technique for pull-ups is very good. The animation. Very early 90s. Or sorry, very early early 2000s. Early 90s, this would be revolutionary. I love that he's working out and is like, in his essay homey shit at the top button shit. It was crack and boom. Dude, kicks up. Rock a core. What have you say, bitch? I love how he talks to random people and even to no one. He just likes as random shit. Those dips are terrible, by the way. I mean, there's this a graphics problem. Thought she was my homey CJ. What up? That's damn me. They're really good technique. He's getting his legs up. He's control the eccentric CJ nose, man. Whoa. So this is actually really tough to pull off in real life because typically you're just going to have your feet come up. But if this was somewhere where he had his feet kind of under some kind of implement, this is actually really really good set up technique, full range of motion, control and everything. This is awesome. All right, CJ. Hey, homemade. I love the homey in the background, like sort of motivating. Maybe, but he has a gun, open carry and public, whatever. Hey, man, can you stop swinging that thing around? I'm doing crunches. Yeah, man. I mean, you're CJ listening to me. These are good pushups. I think he couldn't go a little lower, but he's getting nice full lockouts and everything. Dude, this is some of the best video game lifting we've had in a while. Yo, give me some love. I'm worked. You ever done pushups on the peripheral with the arm? Yes, but only a late 80s beater. This is so LA 92 vibes. It's unbelievable. Well, does he keep the white the same on the bar? I can't believe that Olympic weightlifting was made into a video game. Is there any more boring of a video game to make? Here's who's going to agree with me, weightlifters. The first attempt was on successful. It's an interesting point in strategy this. Oh, oh. Huh. Is he strong enough? Oh, right now his arms have broken from lockout. And so the lift is automatically disqualified because even if he presses out after this, it's called a press out and that is instant disqualification. So you actually can't keep going. Let's see what the video game thinks about. Let me say it now. Second place. There he go. Well, this is a healthy amount. They did do the walk up pretty well. Didn't they sky him? He's like getting his groove going. Oh, chalk. Then you know this is going to be too fast. So you're not actually building power in this part of the lift in real life. You're just kind of trying to get the vibe right. Weightlifting is so explosive that you're building power as you move. So you get into position, take a big breath of air in and then start easing the bar and off the ground. And as soon as it starts easing, you start getting really explosive pulling as fast as you can. Getting your hips under the bar. And then dropping under it. Yeah. It's wrong. Techniques good. It does very well here. This is already disqualified instantly. Holy shit, really. A lot of weightlifting. If every weight class absolutely can do flips because they're athletic freaks, that would have been a totally disqualified lift. Although we've got the German flag, the UK flag and the Russian flag back there's caught isn't that nice? Yeah, it's nice. And of course this guy is from Romania and his name is Nikolai Kordesha, which is of course a very Romanian. I love the background conversation. Yo, this is pretty good technique. Chin way over the bar. Yeah, okay. He could be going lower. He could stretch out lower. And he could hang at the bottom for a second, but this isn't bad. All right. Let's see what else is going on. Oh, dude. Literally. I was going to say the same thing. I was like, damn. There's a bitch with titties. He can't resist my man. Hey. I was so with you. Hey, sweetie. Folks really quick. Grab your controller. Look at pixels and other video game stuff. And give a thought to our members area. There's going to be extended cut of this video. Every other exercise scientist protects video. We're done tons of community content. And both myself and Jared Father, I feel they be be be be be be be be I FB be pro training our balls off. Give that a look. Just a little bit of money. Got a ton of great value. All right. Back into cyberspace. I'll kick your cool. What are you? What are you all right? Cheat. Oh, shit. Yo, most workouts aren't this bad. Scott, who are these guys? Are they a little rival gang or something like that? Yeah. Yeah. Damn. This is tough. You can't even get a workout on these streets, man. Hey. I like the idea that you can have like a 10 weapon load out. But still be mobile and look like you have no weapons. Scott, isn't the one thing missing from combat like an extra dimensional treasure case of weapon. You can have a lot of stuff. Just to go pop that out of nowhere. Right. And then you can have like 100 rounds of ammo for everything. And you're like, you weigh 700 pounds. You're not going anywhere. So you went to gym. Hey. If you can run it full speed with 295 pounds in one arm, I believe that you can also miraculous the carriers 700 pound load out in an extra dimension. Holy fuck. You're a bitch. You're a bitch. What's cracking home. Did he just say he owed bitch? I love it. The upright road technique is sweet, man. Oh, you probably shouldn't turn your head a lot when you're lifting that kind of gets funky. But he's definitely upright wrong with elbow sky high. This is respect. I let you be the judge. I've said it right now, man. Next level shit. All like these days he's pussy and egg whites. Very good diet. The egg whites get you the protein that you need. The pussy gets you the vibes that you need. You will absolutely eventually die of not having enough essential fats in your diet and most vitamins and minerals. But that aside, my man's well on his way. And Scott, he's looking to shreddy Kruger. Damn. Oh. All right. Let's critique this. That whole wrist thing he's got going on. Highly unrealistic. You're going to feel a little weird if you jut them out like that. You can totally cock your wrists back, but back not forward like he's doing. He's not locking out, which is okay. He's getting pretty close to his chest, which is cool. But the one thing he's doing in this can sort of inform you that this video game designers don't have an accurate world model in the physics sim is that he is benching in a completely straight line. And there's a natural arc to how you bench. When you bench you're going to touch lower and you're going to come up towards your face. You bench in a straight line without an archer attraction. You're just going to dump the bar onto your stomach. And that'll be light out. The other thing is Scott, I'm not sure if I'm going crazy, but isn't floating over the bench. Oh, yeah. Yeah, you're right. He's not on the bench at all. Oh. Wow. That sure complicates things. Big on small balls on a right bro. Whoa. Whoa. Whoa. Huge faux pas. Oh, shit. This is what it looks like Scott. Well, you're like a planet fitness and it's Tuesday at 7pm. And there's 900 people in the gym. Why not a percent? It's fist fighting. Folks. That was really fun. I mean, look, GTA training's pretty good. That Wii game is like some of the worst shit I've ever seen. And the GTA training obviously, no one thinks it's real training. No one's actually trying to get jacked. Unfortunately, the Wii training that we saw is like, gives you the illusion that you're doing a workout when you're actually not. And if we're trying to get people into fitness, we should try to get everyone from this. It's good that we're being open and inclusive and permissive with how difficult the bar of entry is. But it should still be difficult. It should be challenging. Purpose of working out almost definitely is challenge. So I give the Wii workouts a, Jesus, one out of 10 or two out of 10. GTA and all that other stuff gets a 7 out of 10, good attempt. And in general, video games are dope, but get you a nice workout in. Get your swollen on. Come home, have a nice meal. Then get to gaming. Keep the two separate. You're probably best off for now. Dr. Mike, and I'll see you guys next time. Woo! That was fun. I feel digitized. I need to be a gamer. Anyway, here's another video that might also be fun. See you next time.

So these three things are the massive things I ordered as part of my recovery tools. Coughing is bullshit. Don't ever do coughing. There's a very high probability. It does absolutely nothing physiological that affects your recovery. It is a fad. All of an respect for Tom Stoltman. I do all kinds of stuff in my daily life that's a fad that doesn't work. So nothing personal but this is just all just crocking nonsense. Folks, it's me Dr. Mike. Welcome. This is RP Strength and it's our Friday exercise scientist reviews. Critiques Scott, which one is critiques? Show, which sounds mean but really were quite nice I promise. For the most part, unless you're a charlatan or that to come and feature episodes no doubt to folks. Today's focus of our in-depth super detailed professor of exercise science attention is not a little a mister Tom Stoltman. Man who comes from Scotland has won the world's strongest man three times. That's a lot. I was really impressive and he's about six foot six and about 400 pounds. In the as a curious nickname of I believe the albatross. If you ever see Tom Stoltman real life there's no sense in preparing for it because it's one of the most gigantic human beings you'll ever see. When you see an albatross it's just a giant sea goal that has demon eyes and no feelings in us full of only hate. Yes, he has a very wide wing span like the albatross but I think everything else breaks now. So take out your pistol, shoot the first albatross you see, start growing them mouth, you're on the oven, 321, Tom Stoltman. So let's talk about how I've met for the world's show as my on 2024. All this year was very, very hungry. I've lost the title in 2024 to Mitchell Huper. Hey Mitchell Huper. I don't like him. He looks too Canadian. How the trust a man who's got a who's got a maple leaf for a country. The Canadians are nice aren't they? Who do we know that's Canadian Scott Jack Nippard? Nice. Jeremy F.A. Nice. The guy suited the studio to our Gerald and Patrick. Gerald and Patrick. Canadians are just great. I did a lot more recovery including the oxygen chamber, the osteopaths. I was talking to sports psychologists as well. Well sports psychologists. That's really cool. So oxygen chamber stuff might have some small effects, uh, lureshures on clear. I think in stuff can promote temporary recovery so you can train more intensely but eventually have to stop doing it because it kind of delays the adaptive process or mute it a little bit. The, uh, all that pins in the back stuff is probably almost all placebo effect. There might be something there on some rare occasions, which is probably nothing to it scientifically. It is however the placebo effect this makes you feel nice and it makes you feel more competent at your craft. It's not necessarily a bad thing. This is costly. You know, thousands of thousands of dollars. But the sports psychology thing is new as far as I'm hearing it for most of these athletes. And I think it's really awesome because we kind of two types of sports psychologists. People who didn't know what else to get into the likesports to sort of like psychology, they have absolutely no bearing on athletics whatsoever. They've never been in competitive environments. And they're just kind of like people who give generally nice advice but to athletes and sort of they're not really worthwhile. Unfortunately, some of the profession. But then their sports psychologists are really, really good at their craft. And sports psychology is dope because if you're an athlete, it's trying to compete at the highest levels. There's a crazy mental game. And the mental game is at least has two parts to it. One part is how do you keep your cool in training? So it's not to just get chronic high cortisol release. And so you can promote an awesome environment for you to train and recover in leading up to important competitions. Like when your time is don't, when you're training for the world's strongest man competition, I mean, that amount of pressure must just be baffling. I'm training out here for a local body building show and I'm playing, you know, eating my nails and losing sleep and sending, Scott to video guy, pictures of my genitals out of sharing anxiety. And he hates it, but I think it's fine. You know, this guy's training to be a world- strongest man, a amount of pressure could potentially be insane. So it's sports psychologist who's good at the job can really awesome at letting you have all sorts of ways that you can really cool the pressure down and just do your job and train and enjoy yourself so that you have very low fatigue coming in and you're ultimately prepared. The other way sports psychologist can help and there's a ton of different ways as well, but the other big way that comes to mind to me right now is that the process of actively managing your arousal at the competition so that not only do you have a similar problem not happen, where you don't just like are super, super on edge for two hours and then it's your final time to do your event and you've been on edge for so long you're actually trained of energy, great ways to keep that under wraps. But also if you keep it under wraps too much and there's no quirk to take off of it to really blow the energy out and really do your event well, then you can't get aroused not in that way folks. I mean maybe in that way because you really need your blood to your muscles high and strong man in any case aroused in the way of like getting up for really, really doing something impressive and sport. If you can't do that because you're so chill you won't have your best performance. And so there's a management issue there that's quite complex that a sports psychologist can really help you with and that's establishing that cool calm collective mindset until you need a really perform uncorking in the most predictable way to get you excellent excellent result and then corking back down, chilling until you're next to Tempter, or the next event, or until it's time to drink champagne and pour all of our strippers and whatever people do after they won't roll strong this man. That was always fun. It's a four or five day event. You need to be able to pop that long Jevie. It's a big deal man. World strongest man is brutal. It is a four or five day event. You got sometimes you have multiple events per day oftentimes and if you can survive that and catch the smallest amount realistically a fatigue all the way through, you have a chance of doing really well. If you get broken down, super sore, hurt, really highly fatigue, you're unable to sleep well, you're unable to be hydrated and eat well, especially from psychological pressure. You're going to have our time. I think with this sports psychologist as well, really helped me get a mindset that I was then starting to play a few mind games with a lot of athletes do it. They come up and talk to you for when you're trying to do stuff and they just try and talk to your wife and talk to your support group around you just to try and get in your head. Never, ever talked to me wife. I'll cut you. Yeah, you're f***ing you f***ing, I don't get anything out of that time. You know what, man? Mind games in competitive collaborative sport are just lame as hell and I guess if everyone's in like let's do mind games, cool but let's just why don't we just vibly each other and then go out there and show the world how strong we are. I don't, I don't, you know what I'm saying? I don't watch you two videos to see my games, damn it. I watch you two videos to see you guys lift rocks. Now pick up that rock, brother. Woo! What, I got American first Australian Scott. You ever feel just really American and you have to like every day every day. 25, 8, 20, extra days an hour. My man. And if you're a P&G guy, I'm like, oh is that's actually impossible because in the countries if you're up around 124 hours and seven days a week, it's technically five because we don't work two days a week and I don't mean the weekend. That means the regular week. And you're like, hey, you're a P&G guy, that's because you don't have American days, brother. Woo! Max hit it. Folks, there is still more video to come but there's a members area we could get not only extended versions of all of these Friday shows but you can also get tons of brainy content, tons of training logs and we make updates every single week. Members area get into it. It's a little bit of money. It gives a huge value. I think back to the video. It was a massive, massive help and need becoming the world's strongest month. Today we are squatting big, massive squats. That's one of their improvements. He didn't say, did he say sets? Big, massive squats. Okay, I'm just heard something. And also I'm going to try flat issues again. I used to squat and flat issues and I used to a few much more comfortable. I don't know why I changed the part of it. I think she's going to start again with flat issues. It really is a personal thing. A lot of people love a healed weightlifting shoe to squat in but it does make you use more of your quads as a limiting factor. It keeps you more upright. If you're stronger like that, totally dope. If you feel better in very stable flats, then very stable flats are better for you. So I would say try both and figure out which one is best for you for hypertrophy of the quads. He'll choose her undefeated. There's just a correct answer for powerlifting for strongman sport. It really does depend on the individual. Let's see if I make any improvements or not as well and just take my time warming up and just enjoy squatting. Enjoy it. Don't say I hate them. Enjoy it. That's good, man. You got to have some buy-in. You guys feel like he's got, he's trying to convince himself. Yeah, he did. When you're six, six squatting is like a lot of work physically and the literal physics definition of force times distance. And when you're squatting, you know, 500 pounds plus for reps, being that tall, it's, uh, it's a lot of squatting to do. Cool thing is, as you'll have huge and insanely strong legs if you can do four inch motion squats at that height, the sort of not great news is like, yeah, you're in for some work. Who is deep too? Good God. Yeah, why use a belt if you could just beltless squat over 500 pounds. However, wow. No-one near failure in the samely smooth movement the whole way through. Super impressive. Wasn't the prettiest, but, hey, Phil. Nice and no go. Yeah, and I still do some energy, which is good. So, what I'm about to jump is what then jumps. I'm done already. Ha, I wonder what the purpose of those are. Typically, we need jumps. You want them to be relatively maximum, or maximal in nature, which means you're trying to jump roughly as high as you can. Sure, it doesn't look like he's doing that here. Maybe some kind of recovery technique I'm not quite sure about this, it's curious. I mean, with my luck, I would jump out of bench and I think would slip and I would die, but at least he's not doing that. We want his defleur deadless. Recessive five. Three sets of five. How cheese? That would cook almost everyone. I wonder if he means top sets and worksets, or if he means including warmups. What a trip. 120 kilos, I assume he's just forming up. Scott, look at our ridiculously small, that completely standard Olympic barbell looks in his hands. The jet, if I saw this, I didn't know how big he was, I was like, whoa, he's got like a little mini barbell. Nope, that's a real barbell. I like the bit, bit, bit, bit how. Also, he's the size of a power rack. Holy crap. Whoa, that's really good technique. Folks, if you're doing a stiff leg of deadlifts at home, I have two things to tell you. One is if you try Versa grips with them, you're going to be able to hang onto the bar in such a profoundly effective way that you can now focus on your positioning for your chest, for your tummy, for your glutes, for your knees such that you maximally stretch out the hamstrings, get the most benefit without having to worry about your grip. They're super easy to put on, super easy to take off. They're pretty much better than straps and almost every measure. Versa grips are amazing. We have a discount code for them, and that's all going to be displayed somewhere, and there's probably link in the description. We can go get RP branded Versa grips, which are just great and fire. The second thing I have to tell you is, why are you doing them at home? Your neighbors below can probably hear you and are really, really pissed. So go to the gym. Also, if you go to the gym, there are people there. Some of them might consider having the sex with you if you say the right things. And I'll go go. Try it out. First exercise is a strict press. Two steps of free. Then we have some close good stuff in climbing and all that kind of stuff. Cool, a push day. 130 kilos, which is two hundred and 86 pounds. Whatever, just playing around with that weight, why not? Good God. Woo 170 push press. This is real and saying this is like 375 ish or something. Yeah, wow. How is it going? Oh, Scott, can you believe it got that? It's brutal. Yeah. There's a lot of adjustment with body position that if you get the bar a little bit more behind you, it actually becomes significantly easier because the lever arm shortens a ton. He really succeeded. There's a huge test of athleticism too. Dude, Scott, like 170k, like that, many 45s are shown on the bar. That's like someone benching that in the gym, it's like really impressive in a regular gym. Someone just pushing it overhead is like, squatting or dead, but taking that in a regular gym. Yes. Yes. Yeah, this is wild. Question, should you push press for dealt games? Delt games in a front dealt, especially lead a bit the side. Plenty of trap actually is really good for the strict overhead press. There's a lot of axial fatigue, your whole body is compressed and so it's quite fatiguing a lot of the other muscles contract. It's probably better to do this preceded if you're trying to get jacked. You can do them standing. It's a real good man had Viking energy. The push press allows you to accelerate with your legs and then lock out. By themselves, I wouldn't do them for hypertrophy because you're basically like using more of the rest of your body and just as much dealt as before. You get really no added benefit to the delts, but you get a lot more fatigue from using the whole body. However, something you can try is after your set of strict presses, pretty close to failure or too failure. You can use a few push presses to finish the job and really kind of post-exhaust the front delts and the triceps. So that's something to consider if you can manage the fatigue well. If this is an exercise that beats you up and you're like, do you don't get in way too beat up? Remember, this is a predictable thing, so not your not surprised. This is very good for transitioning to overhead and stuff as well. Go do a good straight. Oh, if we set it 12, so this will be my last so we're on up 100k. 3 sets of 12, 264 pounds really cool. Yeah, this is like a closer grip, but we've been out for him because you can see his forms are significantly inside his elbows. This is a closer grip variation. Really good for building more of the musculature, upper chest, front delts and triceps that helps with the overhead press, but isn't nearly as fatiguing so you can just get more work in. There's three by 12 in the overhead press, but cook the rest of your body lower back, even the abdominal wall of ton. This is way less fatigue. Great stimulus, awesome, awesome accessory move for strength athletics and a great move for high-perch refused well. I love the 80s synth vibes, huh? It's almost like you just won the wrestling competition at states and you're driving down, let's see, South Beach Miami to pick up your soon-to-be girlfriend to ride into a permanent sunset with sunglasses on. What am I missing from the 80s? It's got the RP high-perch of the app comes with dozens of pre-made programs from two days of training per week all the way up to six days of training, with specialized programs included for shoulders, arms, chest, back, legs, abs, and glutes. Each one with male and female options, you get them all and can use them as often as you like, even building off of them to make your own customized version for only about a dollar a day. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. Look how to say that was hellish, un pumped. Last week I did have your close grip, I'm gonna alternate it week because doing a close grip bench press every single week, absolutely rums, you know what I mean? Scott you have been the rammed before? I have not. My real Scott is lad. Again, I know that accent is pseudo-irish, but really, flex Lewis if you're listening to this. It's fucking Welsh isn't it? Isn't it? Brother, flex, please don't kill me. Here's the deal folks. This is actually very good strategy. A lot of times any kind of variation is better than a totally identical training style week to This is sometimes it's really good to have some higher reps in one week and even the same exercise, lower ups and another. The kinds of stresses are a little bit different. You get more metabolic stress, more muscle soreness from the higher reps, but you get more joint and connective tissue disruption, tendons, ligaments, and the fascia of your muscles from the lower ups and heavier weight. And so if you keep on the lower ups every way, more likely to get hurt after a few weeks. Not by ton, but by enough. If you high reps all the time, you never quite get as strong as you're supposed to be. And if you do lower ups all the time, you can't really add a whole lot of muscle size. So if you alternate high and low reps week on week or within a week, Monday Thursday, for example, if you're training for some combination of size and strength, this can be a ton of strategy, especially in the off season. What better way than to get some recovery and the most beautiful shape in you can imagine. This is a tropical paradise. This Scottish tropical paradise of frozen ice wasteland. So that is Luke Stoltman. Yes. Yes, this is brother. Me brother. And he's also a pro-strong man, also in Krabla athlete, and also in Norris. That's one hell of a stock, dude. Mom did some work in those deliveries. Hi. My god. Those are real Scottish male tiles. I want to say, we're not any fanys around here, any philosophies, any fairies. I guarantee you one of those was a Scottish phrase that people say. But with snow, sometimes I like to talk a lot when I don't do something. Oh, Scott, you in. Absolutely not. This could be, this could be us, but you play way too much. This is my, like, will be the favorite thing of all time. Come on, Daddy. You plan. There are big boys, anything? Damn. This sucks. Um, yeah, I'm Russian. This is like a Russia thing, also. Will it provide you with recovery? Yes. Will it enhance the speed of your adaptations? No. Is it cool for manhood vibes and Viking energy? Absolutely. Probably the number one thing it's good for. I'd rather like lower myself into like an Indianadune style pit of snakes than lower my. Like when you know the poison has a hermetica effect that actually makes you stronger. All right. Which is doing a bit too much and then you die. Okay. Yeah, if you put the snakes in there, that's it, man, cold blooded bro. That's next done. It's not coming out refreshed. It's coming out. Ready to eat. The base way to dry off. If you don't have a towel, this is what they do in the area. It's just walking around. Oh, my God. We roll on the snow. That's how we dry off. Oh, God. Scott. Scott, we got this outside right now. We got to pawn right outside. Maybe I get that whole going. You and me, let's get in a hole together. Let's put you in a hole. Absolutely not. Do you think he just like, oh, shit. I have snow on me. Let me dip back into the water to get it off. I don't only do it with you. It was like a guarantee like five million views. Five million view video. I make Scott the video guy take a polar plunge. Hey, I might do numbers. It gets 500 k views and you start to just wind down onto a depressive episode. Do not comment. Do not thumbs up this idea. Do not request it. Do not bring it up in the comments. Do it. Do it. Promise us five million views and Scott will eat his shoe. All right. That was very Scottish. Was it? I thought I was going to do some more voices. I was going to do some Arnold and I was going to do some forest gum trying to weed forest gummen, but this didn't happen. Maybe next time for the time being top stoltman as a legend and enormous and is a literal albatross. The giant freaky demonic bird out of ten considered that an official ranking and unless it's top stoltman we have mega respect form we love. If you ever actually see a real albatross in the wild. Don't let it go kill it so that we don't have any more of these damn terrible demon birds eating the poor fish out of our oceans. No more albatrosses. Elbatrossi. Scott Seagulls the same thing. We hate him too. Yeah. Evil. What is exactly the purpose of a Seagull other than to eat your picnic at the beach? I submitted has no evolutionary purpose whatsoever. They're terrible too. Tom Stoltman's the man. I've said enough. Possibly too much. I've been Dr. Mike. I'll see you next time. Alright. It was really cool. They're a giant boys. I think. Kind of accident is that? Who knows? Look at this. It'll be more fun I promise.

He just had a f***ing 30 minute conversation with a chef when he's prompting, but he doesn't even know what he's cooking. And they don't know why he's eating it. Boom, Acro's, no calories, no goal is eating a fat loss phase. I'm also gonna keep the f***ing on on. Damn it, I'm getting sick just thinking about the shit. The f***ing out of my face. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NSound's Periodization. I'm also an exercise and sports science professor at Leemon College in the Bronx, and the creator of the RP Hiperchrophy app. And I'm here for Part 2. I can't believe it. Two praise, Mark Wahlberg's workout, a different one this time. Hopefully one that's better than last time. If you missed us last time, pour acid into your eyes before you click that link. Let's get started. Get out what you put in and you have to be disciplined. You have to want it and put in the time. Respect, all true so far, A plus so far. Do you see the results it makes perfect sense? It's just what you do. Oh, it's sponsored by Performance Inspired. Excellent. You're by a bird fat. You definitely have to build muscle and for that to happen. You have to give yourself some work. The way I kind of break it down for people is it's... What the f***ing is Mark, you aren't doing in there. Ultra fast, focused on the concentric reps. These are not good reps for us. You want to go down slower. Maybe even pause at the bottom and come up quickly. D plus. So for most people, they have between three to six hours a week to actually work out and exercise. So far so good. If you only have three hours a week, then focus only on strength training. That's really the thing. You know? Yep. Even though I'm trying to pay attention to this while Mark and Mark slaughteres, whatever dog shit, pneumatic leg thing that is terrible technique, coming down fast, going halfway down for the f***ing knows what's going on anymore. A lot of people say, oh, I don't even have time for the elliptical machine. The one thing you'll notice with the gym and what we set up here with Mark is we really don't do any of that stuff. That's... As my known means clear what it is you actually do. I look, Mark is doing another circus act. Bullshit exercise. The train's nothing. The mouse wheel stuff isn't the mode of action for fat loss for that 45 year old. Yep. What is trainer saying is right spot on. If you have a limited time of training, restraining is key. And then if you have more time, potentially you can do some either more resistance training, more cardio. So this is good stuff. So far, let's not get too excited yet. Even for someone a kid that's trying to get faster in his high school stuff, that the mouse wheel isn't taking there. It really is good old fashioned strength training that's missing. I love it. And I love it if this guy actually prescribed good old fashioned strength training. But I bet that's not what's going to happen. Whatever world you live in, strength training is really the biggest piece that's going to sing today. Now the f***er, you don't live in that world because watch what you're about to do. You want to build something that's going to last? You're going to do it the right way. Marky Mark, I love that quote. I also don't really know what it means. Nonetheless, I like the spirit. I'm just trying to stay positive guys. It's only a matter of time until his turn's negative. It's f***er. How to build with all the right material. Yes. All the right material. Mark, the material you use is just what your body makes protein out of. It's not up to you. When a build some quick fast over time is going to break down. You're going to get injured, hurt. All the stuff's not good for you. I just don't know what the analogy extends to it this week. I don't see it. No, I don't know Mark. I want to build a form of this level, so I'm in my 60s. I'm so in the middle of how to do it. Still in it all natural. What? Oh, that's right. It's also f***ing protein at or some shit like that. Do it all naturally. I like how he said that for no reason at all. Totally out of context, slightly suspicious. I believe he's all natural. Sure. They camp. When I refer to camp, that's the time period it takes us to really prepare for a role. They saw him last camp, taking 12 weeks to really drop the same amount of body fat that we've dropped this night. In six weeks, definitely tells me that this performance is fired is off the charts better. Okay, so this is a commercial for performance inspired, which I guess is a protein. And their cleaning, the marquee mark, was able to drop a similar amount of body fat in six weeks that it took him 12 weeks last time to do. I think it's almost sure you proteins, supplements, don't have that much of an effect. Considering that the only variable that's really different. So, marquee mark seems to like to dump barbells on his chest, no eccentric control. Hey coach, shut the f*** up about performance fired. Coach, you're athlete. F*** is the supplementation. But I'm seeing the results, you know, that's a thing. You're working hard, training, eating right, taking the right self-ness. And then you see the results in the morning. In the morning, I assume this happens all in one day, marquee mark. And of course overnight. Instead of feeling discouraged, you feel like, oh god, well, I'm going to work twice as hard the next day. Twice is hard. And then twice is hard the next day. And then twice after that, it's like a f***ing Moore's law of training out here. It's easier to stay in shape than it is to get in shape. That's true, good point. Not exactly what I'd call inspirational, but nonetheless, let's evaluate these tricep extensions. Just kidding, onto more protein commercial. This video sucks. Our exercises are multi-plating. Oh god, battle ropes, multi-plainer, which again means almost nothing. Certainly not a concern for an actor, moving on. Right now, marks doing a lunch pattern, but he's also doing the ropes at the same time. Technically, that's in the same plane, but at this point, who's counting? So a lot of the motions that we do in this particular camp, hasn't been anything about just the normal, like, squat deadlift. It's not that, because you're not qualified to coach that ship. It's not that only because of the size that we're trying to get marked too. So really, a lot of the complex movements have whittled his body size down, body fat down. Folks, the movements you do have zero impact on your size. Your size is always an everywhere up to your nutrition. If you train with weights and you eat a lot, you're going to gain size. If you train with weights and you eat very little, you're going to lose size. Mostly fat size. I very highly doubt that if Mark focused on actual compound heavy basics, like allegedly is a good idea. According to this man, except not this time, he would just be really chiseled and really lean, and it wouldn't make his waist grow at all, and has his being implied here. First, rate awful. In a minute, Lee, we always add jump rope. Always add jump rope. Everyone knows that. So that's kind of like how we do all our moves. Two big complex moves, then jump rope. And it's worked out great for us this cap. I feel like he's just making stuff up on the spot. If you don't want to move, we don't have to move. And we add the jump rope. Which is great. So far. Cool. Is there like a principle there or anything? Nothing we can learn? Sweet. Oh, raise. There he goes. Walking around with a f***ing dumbbell for no reason. This was in the last video. It still doesn't do anything. It's a 70 pound suitcase right there. Not any power. That's a big suitcase. A training to be a f***ing hotel dust clerk. Alright, folks. If you want to see the full uncensored version of this video, much more extra content. Some stuff we did not put into this video. Our members area is Afra Graves. Give that a shot. And maybe we'll see you guys there. Hey coach, get in there and coach a real movement. Like a pull-up or a row or a bench press or a curl or a squat. Actually get your client. Best, most efficient results. Stop just watching them walk around and pointless patterns. Pointlessly for no point at all. Hello, it's a fire. Can you hear me? Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Hello. Mark is just mumbling nonsense at this point. He's a trippy guy. Oh, the trainers doing it too. Come on. This comes very close to being just random ways to do work. Like, you ran out of good ideas as a trainer. And you just f***ing just like, hey, like just, uh... Just walk around or move around. Just do this. It'll be great. And Mark's like, sweating and tired. He's like, oh, this must be great. He's being ripped off. So the beat behind this one is that the offset load forces your court to reliance. So yes, sure does. And how will that make me jacked? How will that make me lean? How will that make me look more like Mark? The f***ing thing that the figure ate behind me and how to make it. Really created dynamic of the hips. What? Yeah, it's pure, very athletic. Athletes move a lot faster than this sir. Have you ever seen a sport being done? I didn't want to turn your guard off. There is no sport called Figure 8, Candle Bell Walking. There is no sport that looks remotely like it. Your whole body had to respond to that weight. I've never seen someone over-explained the f***ing out of you carry a weight around in a random f***ing pattern. Go ahead, sit, triple force. Ooh, sit, triple force. You got your real scientist. So it's huge coaxes. Huge core exercise. The biggest. Because core is really important. Because reason. Consistency takes you there. And then you think that if you're going to be consistent with a regular product, that product would be great. And this infomercial shit is getting f***ing old. We want everybody to be able to feel good about it. We're going to grab a thing off the shelf without having to really worry about what's in the bottle. I don't ever want to worry about what's in the bottle is a shit I'm taking. In the camp like this, it is all nutrition. It's all nutrition. The training has no effect. As long as the metabolism falls into the right place, and muscle will just... ...will melt all that fat. What? You guys? He's legitimately just like saying shit on the spot. It makes no sense. But like, we need 30 minutes of you talking about muscle and metabolism melting. Just start talking and we'll put it together later. Boom. Mission accomplished. So really for us, 90% of the work is just the nutrition. Correction. It's not all nutrition. It's now been downgraded to only 90%. Much more sensible. I mean, there's nothing that box that we eat. There's nothing packaged. You don't want to eat anything in boxes or packages. Because I don't know. I've taught nutrition at the D1 University level. And I fail to teach that part because it's not true. Even the performances fired proteins that were having it's all natural. This guy just said, you don't want to eat anything out of a box or a package. Now, if I get my performance inspired protein, if it comes in either a box or dare I say a package, I will be very upset. You're not even good at shaling. So that's just a big piece of the puzzle is that the body doesn't have to filter all that crap out. Filter and crap. The body hates doing. They've pulled the body and the body's like, fffffffffffffffff. Yeah, filtering crap hate. Getting laid love. Parting with my friends love filtering. I'm not big on. What about your kidneys? Oh yeah, yeah. It exclusively designed to do that and they're really fffffffffffffff. I hate it. But whatever, I hate doing it quote body. This is make believe folks. All of it. What the fffffffffff. Godinal exercises that. Holy shit. He's like, explain himself out. That fffffffffffffffffffffff. I don't even know what's going on. You know, fat is a way for the body to protect itself. Protect itself from what mother fffffffffffffffff. You don't even train hard. And then, you know, making sure that he's got his rest days lined in. God, I have your rest days lined in. You know, we work out. Super hard. You do not work out super hard. Period. Recovering such a big topic because people don't really recover anymore. Recovering such a big topic. Because people don't really recover anymore. You guys remember back in the 50s when the cars looked really cool. And you count on your old friend, seen you to serve you up a great malt shake from the fffffffffff. Local diner. Hey, I got you guys from T-Shake. Awesome. I love protein. And you looked around and everyone was recovering. And you're like, oh, this paradise, this splendor. He'll never end. And then the 70s and 80s came along and everyone just stopped recovering. This is an own pandemic. I can't believe. This gentleman was asked questions on television and was allowed to answer them. Let me tell you guys about the RP high-perrophy app. With over 28 preset programs already in the app, you could choose to make your own. You could modify an existing program or you could just run the programs. Exactly. I was never written by a person on this app programs. Everything for you. Exercise is weights. Sets. Reps. Frequency. The whole thing. After every single workout and every single week, the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now, you're pretty interested in the app. Download the RP high-perrophy app today. I worked out hard, but now you walk away and you're so sore that you can't even work out the next day. You failed. No wait wait. That just means you switch muscle groups. You recover from that soreness in that next day and you go back again. If you smash the shit again and get sore, I thought this is how people got jacked from time in memorial. But with the f*** do I know, I'm just an expert and jacked. You also have to work you the pain. Mark's like, shut the f*** up and we'll cut you off right here. You got to work through the pain. The trainers like, mother f***er, you are putting your goddamn stick in my spokes. Shut your mouth. I just said a bunch of shit. You're gonna contradict it. And he did. Let's see how this resolves itself. If you work through the pain, see you work out. You sore the next day. You're going to work out 15-20 minutes into the workout. That's soreness's got to be a little bit of it. Yep. So I guess it is okay to be sore. I don't understand there's no unified message here. I'm a confused member of the audience. What do I do? Who knows? The muscle sore is going to happen to anybody that has a workout long time. True. When you do work out hard, there's a lot of people that do. They'll be in the gym for 90 minutes, two hours. And then they'll walk away from the gym. They're dripped and sweat. Tripped and sweat. This is bad news. Sweat causes soreness, I think. They force so hard. And then they won't eat anything. I'm trying to lose weight. And they won't do anything. And that's probably one of the worst things you can do. Because you just expend all of this sugar. All this glycogen storage and all the protein in your own body. If you don't replenish it immediately, your body will feel that the completion in a sense of soreness. Mark, all of our just took out a dumbbell. Did two lung swings with it and then put it back. I don't have any context for this. This is if you're ever tied up by terrorists. And they're like, all right, the keys to your handcuffs are inside this little f*** ball in front of you. But I bet you can't use your feet to pick it up and curl it towards yourself. Pussy. They lock the door on the f*** off. You're like, ha ha. How but wait, I've been training for this. These are just random movements at this point, folks. Oh, the body. Little bit of body, brother. What's it going? Oh yeah. Mark's hot. But I get up at a tree of rock. You know, in the morning, every morning. Then the first thing I do is I prepare egg whites, easy co-cred, with a little bit of pommel butter. This is his chef. He did say tree or clock. Interesting. So by the time I finish my workout, I don't know what I do. I'll get the shape. Yeah. Mark doesn't know what his nutrition is. The chef has to remind him. Excellent. That's a rich dude. Performance inspired with a little bit of blueberries. Maybe like a blueberries. Well, the blueberries better not have come out of a box, man. This is crazy talk. After that, we go up for golf. Worst after that golf. Hard life. But I went golf all the time. Seven with clock. No, six. Six. Is he mocking his chef? He's like, you don't even know my schedule. Why don't we even pay you? Then 10, 30, we didn't. We didn't. We have a tuna salad. It's made with lettuce. A spinach. Put a little bit of bell peppers. Come on. Tomatoes. A little avocado. Why is this detail relevant? Oh, they're going to get him right in this down. We had a bell peppers. Not red peppers. Erase red peppers. That's going to be a f***ing bell peppers. Red city. What did Mama said? No beans, right? I'm not said no beans. What? I don't know why she said white. I love it. Someone named Mama said no beans. And is unclear to the chef as the reasoning for that instruction. But he knows the instruction. I doesn't think he's marking too much. Mark Wahlberg's female significant other. He said that his level of gas production was too much. And the beans were cut out. It makes sense. It's the first thing in the whole f***ing video. It makes sense. Yeah, I don't think the beans are going to make you fired. I think it might be the, you know, what do you think that is just eating healthy. I think that's it. Just eating healthy makes you fired. Everyone knows that. When you break down greens, the parents here in our stomach. As long as it's just I don't know. It's just I don't know. We don't want to be in the car when that happens. I'll see you guys next time. I'm not getting ready. No, I'm not going to give a f***ing rating Scott to video guy. But the f***ing my supposed rate. He just had a f***ing 30 minute conversation with a chef for these property. But it doesn't even know what he's cooking. And they don't know why he's eating it. No macros, no calories. No goal is eating a fat loss phase. I musta gave the f***ing on on. Damn it. I'm getting sick just thinking about the shit. The f***ing my face. I'm out of here again. This is my full of reps.

This is taking an exercise that's actually very good for the back and making it even worse. This is a modification that looks fancy the makeshift worse. It's like we're back and we're having a Hollywood again, huh fellas? Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. I am the creator of the RPHA-perchography app and I'm her professor of exercises for science at Lehman College in the Bronx in New York City in the United States. Uh, North America in the Western Hemisphere on Earth, which is in the solar system. And it's the very same solar system from which Mr. Duane, aka The Rock Johnson also comes from and resides and lifts weights and is so handsome. Me and The Rock want to beach a deserted beach. Couple of unicorns running around and we're running to we're holding hands. That's how I see this video turning out. Let's see if I'm right. By critiquing his exercise techniques. One, two, three. Go! Yeah, chains brother. I saw a movie once called Bikini Chain Gang. It was an adult film. Are we getting canceled yet? What the chains do is they create needless wobbling, which destabilizes your body and actually reduces force production by your shoulders. Almost every time you destabilize this system, it is unable to produce as much force as if it is stable, locked in and grounded. So this is interesting variation. It makes for great Instagram views, but unfortunately is not nearly as effective as just a pair of dumbbells. Which I know is too boring to put on the gram or the tick-tock or the f*** white forever the rocks. Pubblessist posts a shit. Just smash the camera with that. Oh shitty, broke the rest of the camera. Yeah, his techniques not terrible, although he's like kind of lurching forward at the bottom and then kind of rising up with more than just a shoulderers. I would love for him to do this either seated or standing with dumbbells, but really locked into position and doing it with strict control. Maybe if Max, Strazzney, our editor is worth anything at all, he'll put a video of Jared Father doing proper lateral raises in there, at least someone that's doing it right. But Max always fails us, so he'll probably f*** that up to. Always treat your employees. Like you treat yourself. Warly. It was disdain. I would like to come up to the rock. I'm noticing his tattoos. In my deal world, I come up to the rock and I, hey, and he's like, hey, what's up? I'm like, what are your tattoos mean? And I just don't care what he says after him. Blah, blah, blah, blah, j'all-eyed, beautiful face and I'm like, aha. Just say whatever the rock. Just grab me already. Just hold me, please. I need therapy. All right, now we have standing dumbbell curls. Yeah, pretty good. Coming up nice and high. I would like to see him come back a little bit more at the bottom to get that stretch. And also, you'll notice he's leaning forward at the bottom. That lever just him to lift the weight properly. But it leverages his biceps into a stronger, less exposed, less potential for muscle growth position. You want to expose the muscles, putting them into disadvantage position. So they really have to work the way out of there. So what I would like to see him from him is for him to stand up straight and push his chest out at the bottom and really bring his arms back, stretching and living dog shit out of those biceps. This is an terrible yet, let's see if it gets better. We're a certain neutral. And so he stopped sort of before lock out again. I would like to see a bigger stretch with the bottom. Oh, I think he's doing some of his reps like partial at the bottom and some he's swinging up real high. Seems a bit arbitrary. Yeah, that's like I would play because it's an alternating partial. Yeah, alternating bottom end partial and full range. Not terrible. Pretty good idea. Interesting to try to track it. But I think there's this quite good. Again, if you're going to do the bottom end partial, you might as well get the big stretch at the bottom. That's kind of why you're doing it. All right. Now we have preacher curls. These are very good. No critique so far. I would like to see him get all the way down to a big stretch at the bottom with that's just being being nitpicky. This is great. Man, he literally has a sign in the gym called Project Rock. Scott Vita guy is RP the wrong name should this be Project Mike. No wait wait. Rock's not his given name. What's my nickname? I'm not allowed to say that online. Yes, it is a racial slur for the Jewish people. They get that one out. Self-appointed by the way. Don't call me that online because they will block you. But I'm good with it. If you see me in real life, come to that Shannon Day. Great. Wow. What quality and control? Oh, shit. Here we go. Middle range reps, which are a f***ing waste of time. Just a few of them. Not terrible because they did him at the end when he already tired. This is a very good set. The rock, you're back on my green list. The good list. Mike Santa Claus, except that I'm bringing any presence. I just judged the f*** out of you on the internet. Yeah. I'm pathetic. All right. We've got Smith machine rose. Okay, first the good things. He's getting good stretch at the bottom, which is great. He doesn't seem like he's swinging a lot, which is also great. He's bent over for the general gym and fitness populace quite well. I would love to see him bend over considerably more for two reasons. One is that leverages you to use more of your back and have to use less external weight and stretches your muscles more. So it's actually going to cause more muscle growth if you really bent over and two. Just kind of want to see the rock bend over further. Why do I keep doing this? I'm heterosexual man. I have a wife at home. But the rock, you just see him and I'm like, what am I even? Should I be in Hollywood? Can I just smell the rock? All right, in any case, the bad. The chains on the sides are a big f***ing problem. Here's why. One of the big disadvantages of a barbell row of any kind is that it's mechanically disadvantageous the higher up you go. So closer to your tummy, this is where you usually fail. But down here in the stretch is where you actually want to fail because you want the limiting factor to be the most hyper-trophic part of the movement, which is the big bottom stretch. The bent over row doesn't do that well. So it's in some sense at least a little bit inferior in that regard. But how can you make it worse? Well, you put f***ing chains on it so that it's even harder at the top when the chains leave the ground and even easier at the bottom when the chains touch the ground and de-load the bar. This is taking an exercise that's actually very good for the back though beating out ideal and making it even worse. This is a modification that looks fancy. The makes it worse. It's like we're back in f***ing Hollywood again. Hot fellas? They actually modified the squatting motion, which would normally be done on a flat, a stable surface. Only in f***ing Hollywood. Can you take a movement that was just your bodyweight squat with no equipment? That would have been the superior movement and you made it worse. Oh shit. Big ass Smith machine in-clined wide grip press coming up. Folks, I will eat my shoe if it actually touches his chest on all of the reps. Hi, shoes not on the menu fellas. God damn it. Folks, the bottom end range for the 50,000th time. These are the one that grows either most. And I know it's uncomfortable to be all the way over here feeling your pecs tear apart, but would it be crazy if I told you that you're in the gym training chest in the order to hit your pecs to basically repropark in a controlled manner? And yeah, you won't be able to lift as much weight. But again, other than the girl that you will never fuck anyway, she's never noticed you who you think cares about weights but doesn't, nobody gives a shit about how much you lift if your goal is physique. Period. You guys want to see more of this video with more unedited raw footage and crazy wacky takes. We can't legally put on public YouTube, join our members section to get the full length version of this video. Okay, looks like we have some dumbbells, okay. So this is kind of like a dumbbell sumo deadlift's slash squat situation. I assume he's training the glutes. Hopefully not the quads a lot because there's not a lot of knee flexion. Well, I'll say about this exercise as a few things. The rock is kind of like a real-life Superman. So he weighs like kind of an only two-four. You're something maybe even more. There is not a dumbbell unless you're in Brian Shaw's gym and there's like 300's around which is going to challenge him in this movement. So using a dumbbell here means the external load is probably too low. If he just did one swap, it would be just to get rid of the f***ed dumbbell and just get a barbell. This is one of these things that if you're not particularly strong, you have a lifting long time and you're much older or much younger, you can actually use the dumbbell in this style to get a really great workout, but the rock probably can't because he's so jacked that it doesn't make any sense. Like so for example, just using knee, I can get a lot out of a deadlift of this nature anywhere between let's say 400 and 600 pounds. Let's not cut many slack that a 400 pounds. What the f*** am I going to do with like 150 pound dumbbell even, which is like bigger than most dumbbells and most how much is the mealism I'm getting with 150 pounds in the deadlift. Like that's my first warm-up. I can do 100 feet of pounds of deadlift until I get like a rabid-o or pass out from not enough oxygen. It's just not training the muscles a lot because the external load is too low. Very typical Hollywood thing, unfortunately making things look hard, when reality to the muscle that they're targeting, they're not that hard. I will say the cadence is very good. Slowie centric, nice pause at the bottom, and then a smooth concentric. Very excellent. I just kind of wish he wasn't doing it with a f*** dumbbell. Damn it and he could probably go a lot deeper if the dumbbell wasn't standing straight up like that. So a barbell with some 25s loaded on it, it would just be better. Just better. Sometimes there's nuance and sometimes things are just better. Ooh, weighted dips. Okay, the chains on the neck is actually a good place to post the resistance if you want your body to can't really afford a little bit and get a little bit more parallel to the ground and expose your chest. So these are great dips for a combination of a very good tricep stimulus and an excellent chest stimulus. So far so good on that. Okay, he's not coming up all the way, which is not a big deal, but he's going pretty deep. By Hollywood and regular lifting standards, that's actually quite deep. What I would like to see is him sagging and go even a little bit deeper and maybe take a second at the bottom or half a second at the bottom to really stretch the packs out that would help, but this is actually very good so far. I'm used to saying so far for these videos because inevitably I'm going to go to hell. Yeah, not terrible, not terrible at all. And very intelligent use of the variable loading. You have two chains on. I believe two chains is a musical artist also that the kids listened to or did 15 years ago when I knew what music was. Now he's down to one chain, which is great because he got close to failure with two chains, reduced the load, get right back into the mix. A couple reps coming his way with one chain. Hopefully he also drops the one chain and does some bodyweight stuff. This is really awesome. This is really awesome stuff. Oh, yep, last chain off. And he's doing it again. I love it. Very good. Again, I just like to see his eccentric little bit slower and maybe that one second bottom pause to really stretch the packs. But that's being nitpicky. This is really good stuff. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. That's failure. Always going at it again. Oh, wow. He's doing sort of forced negatives. This is really intense. He's got a great set up for it. So what he's doing here is he already went to failure even with bodyweight. But since he can no longer concentrically lift himself up, we know from a ton of research that your eccentric strength, your ability to lower something under control is way higher than your concentrist strength, your ability to return it back. So even with his bodyweight, he's no longer strong enough. He's too fatigued in order to push it up. He's not so fatigued that he can't control the descent. And if you take your muscles really far beyond failure and you start doing forced eccentrics, I mean, you don't do this super often because it will f*** you up in a good way. But a lot. Man, if you guys want to try this work out at home, holy shit, you might just need to do like what he did literally just now, a couple of sense of dips. And you might get sore pecks for a few days. So this is really awesome stuff. Yeah, if you guys have checked out our other Hollywood critique celebrity critique training videos, you will now understand that even halfway through the video right now, the rock is doing a f***ing 100,000 times better job than almost all of these other celebrities. And curiously enough, he's way more jacked. Weird. Ok dokey. Just when we thought things were getting good, the f***er he returns. Folks, the one arm at a time pressing bullshit is a f***ing gigantic waste of time. If you want to train one arm at a time, just lock in this hand f***ing really go at it with this one because this one locks you in and makes you really stable and you're actually able to generate a ton of force with one arm more than if you divide the force by two with two arms, believe it. I lateral defensive. And then you rest, you grab this handle with the full weights back on it just to send yourself in and then you go at it like that. Then you rest in repeat. If you're doing this and then this and then this, you never really can align your body properly to get the most juice out of any one pack and then if you're doing this and then this and then this, it strains the imagination as to why you didn't just do this. Either way, there's no good answer to that. It's just variation for the sake of variation. You can do better than that. There is no avoiding hard training if you want to grow. But if you want to grow the most, your training needs to be hard and smart. RP Hiperchrophy app will make sure you're progressing on track, monitoring and adjusting your workout at all times. So for all that work you're doing, you can be sure you're getting the best results. Oh boy. So this is about squat for question mark reasons because squatting is hugely beneficial if you go super deep. Maybe he has knee injuries I don't know about. In that case, I reserve criticism, but be much more effective for pretty much any goal if you took his foot stance and narrow it a little bit and he took like a five or six total plates off of the machine and he slowly dunked his boot hay all the way to the ground. That extra bottom range of motion is this squeezing juice of growth. That's the thing we want and he's missing it with every rep. I do in these top end partials. Yes, it's cool that you can put eight plates on a side on a pitch arc, bell squat machine. But not so effective. And annoying to put that many plates on there. So far, the rock really has only one drop. He's avoiding that bottom and stretch position, which almost everyone does as well. Folks, that's the shit in the gym that makes you the most jack. If I had one mission in life now who would be getting people to do that bottom and stretch. God damn it, folks, you're missing out on the best stuff. Why do people avoid it? Two reasons. One, the ego. Like you can't lift as much weight, which is painful in an egotistical way. And two, it just hurts down there man. It fucking hurts. Your shit is really just tearing apart, which is what you want. Lean into the pain, lean away from your ego. You don't have better results. I promise. Some abs stuff. Great, no complaints. If you do abs, anything other than shirtless. You're an idiot. Or you're a grotesque like me and nobody wants to see you with your shirt off. I make fun of you. They ruin your middle school, high school, college experience. Touch his abs to get that mind muscle connection. Stop touching your abs rock. Let me see them. Alright, this is called the Dix Macher exercise, where you smash your dick. I think that's all it does. It's I suppose a front raise for kind of side delts front delts. Just fine. Again, I have no idea how it's possible that he just can like the cables fucking smashing his dick. Folks, out. Oh shit. Concentration curls with the 50s, baby. I love that slowy centric. The swing of the way up not my favorite, but the slowy centric is baller. The concentration curl is generally a shit exercise because again, it emphasizes the contraction versus the stretch. Something like a Bayesian curl, which is something you could do Google. It looks belly match. It thinks mental hand summons and or just a curl with cables. Where you stand way in front of the cables and you bring the cables really far back in your curl or an inclined curl when you're on an inclined bench, much better force curve, much more fact, but this is just very impressive. I'm so old. Zoa for me. Now we have the V-squat looking machine. Not to be confused with the V-shred machine, which just does a lot of false advertising. Nothing happens. All right. This is cool. Again, the knee, I guess something must be wrong with the rocks knees, because his knee flexion angle is very not impressive. He would just get way more out of the movement if he moved closer into the machine, stood more upright, and dunked his glutes way lower, letting his knees come out. As he went down, that would be a way better quad stimulus. This is partial range emotion at the very top. It's not super effective. And finally, I assume we're walking lunges. Oh man, I get this god of he's something up with rocks knees. I feel like shit criticizing him if that's he's just not going super low. I would love to see the knee gently touch the ground every single time. Though, his use of chains is excellent because, well, nope, just kidding. There was no super set. He just stopped the chains altogether. Okay. So, my rating for these workouts is a B-minus. But it's the kind where you get the get your, I don't even know if they do this in school anymore. You get your paper and pencil test back from the teacher, and it says B-minus, and it's circled. But instead of like everyone else's grade who is whatever, it says C-min after class. And Mr. The Rock comes up to the teacher, which in this case is me. And whatever the adult version you have in your mind happens between us. Shower seam, loves seam, unicorn seam, dirty classroom sex, totally fine with me. Huh? All I would say is this. Rock is only of E-minus because you know get that bottom stretch. If you freely sunk it in and got that bottom big stretch, it would be a work. If not even a plus, the cadence is great, the control is great. Everything's awesome. Except that bottom stretch is just killing you. You would be an A-student if not for that, but you're going to have B-minus until you are in the same place. And Rock's a cool, cool doctor is retool. We'll try to do better now again. We have a scram, see? That's how you deal with students in real life. All right, see you in Leamham College. Peace on you.

Oh, this shit is hard though, how fellas. This is like cartoonish nonsense. It feels on every single evidentiary based ground of exercise and sports items. I said before, these people won't do a lot of science. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. I am a former professor of exercise and sports science. Black belt. I'm going to use you to grapple. And I'm going to fight you, Bill. Yeah, who's it? And today I am reviewing the none other than legendary sort of fad in fitness functional patterns. Let's find out if there's a pattern to this. Let's find out if there's function. Let's look at a lot of really hot people move three to mention three, two, one, hot people. All animals with the spinal column have distinctive ways of moving in space. Humans also have specific movements that define us at a basic level. Although anthropologists debate how and why we evolve these traits, they pretty much all agree that standing, walking, running and throwing are the defining aspects of human movement. Standing is not a movement. I'm just being a dick, but it's really not. Cool. There are lots of other movements that humans do all the time, reaching down to pick things up as one of them, grappling and combat as one of them. It's nice to be able to boil human movement down to a few simple types of movements, stereo type movements, but it's a bit more complex in this, but it's not wrong, just a bit of stuff left out. At functional patterns, we orient our entire training methodology to respect these adapted evolutionary traits. All pain free movement and humans relates to these big four functions in some way. Okay, that's make belief. You can do these functions and get a lot of pain just from shitty genetics, just from excessively high forces, just from trauma from these movements being done, too much repetition, too much load. And so the pain free thing is just like a marketing gimmick as far as I can tell. If you can move competently in a bunch of dimensions with your body, the probability you have low pain is much higher, so it's good to do this. But there's nothing special about these kinds of movements that if you do them, it's going to reduce your pain. Just doing conventional training in the gym does probably more for reducing pain in everyday life than almost anything else you can do, these movements included. So conventional strength training, rehab and stretchy programs are made up of exercises that are detached from our evolution. Okay, so humans did not evolve to have healthy joints. Humans did not evolve to be particularly competent at modern environments at modern tasks. Humans didn't evolve to be very strong. Humans evolved to be decent, good enough survival machines, probably for the most part in small societies in the African sub-Saharan Savannah. And so that's where we gain most of our anatomical evolutionary kind of drive. And so if we have exercises that tax large muscle groups through large ranges of motion, strengthen almost every part of your body, things like deadlift's deficit deadlift's presses rows, they generally make the body really strong and really competent. And when you take that body and you teach it how to move in whatever sport or activity you're doing, you can have all the strength, all the size, all the tendon health and all competence covered. If you over apply the principle of specificity to make everything in the gym look like real natural organic human movement, which will almost never do anyway, then you're needlessly undervaluing these amazing discoveries that the barbell, like the compound movement, which are not in alignment with evolution. They make you better than you could have ever been in your evolved state. There's nobody in evolutionary history, short of people that used barbells that could deadlift eight-hour pounds squat 500 or squat 600 and bench 400. People like that just did not exist. Barbells and machines and all the advancements in technology can make you better at sports and can make you healthier, it can make you better at all movement than moves that look like they are evolutionarily related. That's just a thing. At F.P., we focus on relating every motion back to our biology. What part of walking with ski poles and being held down by another person with an ankle weight attachment to a free motion machine looks like art of all biology. For the love of God, there's a lot of that in here. Wow. When you train your body in a way that respects millions of years of evolution, you make continuous. My God, Scott, look at that. There's like all the orders of life. It's like vonga, little fishies, and your foot. I can see the whole arc of the timeline. I'm like a part of a bigger thing, you know? Pass the mushrooms. Can you ask progress without degeneration or pain? This is why people who practice F.P. don't seem to pick up training injuries. Instead they become leaner, stronger, and more agile. And they can easily maintain this level of fitness. I mean, Scott, how upset are we at this insane false advertising bullshit? Like I get that when you have hip and back pain, you're both sad and your upper body for some reason is also not jacked. And that when you've resolved your hip and back pain, somehow your side delts grow. But this is like cartoonish nonsense. Yes, it's good to not be in pain. If you're not in pain, you can train really well. And you can get jacked. The thing is that person right there who got jacked with functional patterns could be more jacked doing conventional gym training, which is optimized to get you jacked. And so I think they're on solid ground when they say our shit can make you move more fluidly, which is dope. But really can. But when they're like, hey, look, before and after is a really impressive, like you step into the world of before and afters, you're going to get run over by the giant truck of hypertrophy training. It's just better. It's optimized for that goal. Would we claim that using the RPI Perch Friap is going to make you super athletic? No, because it won't. Because it'll just make you much, much more jacked and probably a lot stronger too. And leaner if you control your diet. But are we saying that it makes you better at soccer and all that stuff? No, that's for you to figure out on your free time. If functional patterns stuck to the fact that it is like a really good way to move, teaches you got to move, synergizing all of your muscles and naturally, where reduce the probability you get hurt doing random shit, like gardening or hiking, they don't really solid ground. It's a great system for that. But if you're saying, hey, look, like we can get people jacked and lean, like, yes, that can also happen. But except because of functional patterns, has some kind of huge upside in that market, it actually has a downside. It's a very inefficient way to get as jacked as possible. So just something that has to be said. Well, it's an inefficiency. Yep, efficiency is a wild claim. It's backwards. That's the opposite. Scott, I'm getting angry. It may again. Well, we're barely getting started. I took like 20 minutes. That was just the overview. Part one. If you want to improve your energy sustainably, fix your bio mechanics, improve your posture. Poster has almost nothing to do with sustainable energy. This is just a fact moving on. When you improve your posture at a fundamental level at a deep level, it's good to improve it at a fundamental level, Scott, and not at some peripheral level, or something like that. Surface level posture. Yeah, you like have good posture, like, but you're not, you don't really have good posture. Slouching on the inside. You're slowly slouching where matters in your heart. You change the visco elastic consistency in your fascia. So that's make belief in all of the internal nonsense. Thank you, naughty eyeglar. That will carry fourth phase water that is negatively charged. Wait, no, wait. Scott, he's right. I just did the calculus in my head. And I knew that water could be negatively charged in fourth phase. He's beginning to believe. Folks, there is still more video to come. But a quick reminder, a longer, more uncut, significantly more perverse version of this video. And many other videos exist in our members channel. Members area. There's going to be a click. You can click on it. Link you can link on. Go give it a click. Sign up, just a little bit of money for a huge amount of value. All right, back to the video. If you are negatively charged with your body, the probability is you are going to be much more energized than if you are not. Folks, believe it or not, the human body is not a battery. And your overall energy level has much more to do with the kind of substrates you're using. And your very intricate molecular machines that both create an extract energy that it does with some kind of whole body charts nonsense. Scott, we're like subscribing to the cartoon theory of energy when you get struck with lightning. You can like super punch people afterwards. You can get struck with lightning folks. You just burn to a crisp and die. God dammit. This is just pure make believe. I didn't know he was this far off. Holy crap. Dehydration is a main reason that most people are lacking energy in modern times. Very, very, very dehydrated today. It makes me worry about all the dehydrated people in the world. So that's bullshit. Most people are not dehydrated in modern times. It is probably true to say that an unsusual times people are much more dehydrated because your probability of drinking poisonous bacteria late in water was much higher. Your access to clean reliable water was much lower. And also hydration doesn't have almost anything to do with perceived energy levels outside of very, very large extremes. It's matter of fact, many people are a little bit dehydrated a little bit of hydrating and they can't tell. And thirst is incredibly efficient, incredibly effective response to tell you when it's time to drink more water. So unless you go around the day just terribly thirsty, as long as you're drinking water, you're probably pretty good. And you're probably feel great. Or you feel like shit, but you feel like shit probably because you don't get enough sleep. You're overstressed. You need too much junk food and you're overfat and shit like that. You fix that. You're going to be much better shape. More muscle, less fat, more sleep, manageable stress, good relationships in your life. A lot of toxic can work on internet culture. You'll all in your way. You're going to drink a couple extra cups of water per day. I'm not going to help much. And if you stay hydrated with the right type of water in your system, let's go. I'm going to list the types of water, ready? H20. Yep. That's it. Nope. There's only one kind of water. Good God. Maybe you saw by heavy water from nuclear reactors. You drink the shit, you're like, I don't feel so good. I got it. Trust me. It's a transitional phase. It's just fourth phase. Whoa. You will completely change your life and you will not need coffee and you will not need any stimulants or energy drinks or any kind of adder-all riddle-in or whatever. Crack their feeding people in modern time. They aren't doing shit. People have attention deficit disorder. People realize that when they're fatigued, they can consume stimulants and get a short-term boost. Many people realize they're downside system-yled, as well as upside, so the choice to use stimulants should be done intelligently with their absolutely normal ways to do them. There is no conspiracy to feed you adder-all not a adder-all. And if that's the case, how come your boy needs to go out of college campus and pretend to look like Harry Potter to get some an adease to party God dammit? Scott, once the last time you could just ease the access adder-all everywhere. Hmm, it's not so busy. My psychiatrist is like, you don't have a diagnosable disorder. I can't continue to prescribe you. What do I usually get? Adder-all? I got hip pain, per cassette. I got leg pain, vikin' in. I have blue pills. I need to get my blood. I need the Viag, say, say, your boy got a perform. And all that stuff is so stressful. I need zannies to get me down. And a new day is something during your workouts to keep you better hydrated as well. Meth. No, yes. All right. So fourth-dimensional wizard water is not a thing. And hydration is normally not a problem. However, if you are training very hard and you are sweating a lot, and especially if you have multiple training sessions per day and hot environments, just regular water is totally fine to rehydrate with. But you can do better and it doesn't require any dimensions. It turns out the relancer to how to hydrate better is kind of like, oh, really? And it's salt. And it turns out that you can put the exact proper ratios of all the different kinds of salts, slash electrolytes, same thing that you need into your water with just one packet of element. And you shake it up and you realize inside the water, there's a discount code for element that we have because we promote the product, yep, that was an ad read. Elements is dope. We don't have fourth-dimensional water yet, but hey, our scientists are working on. Do more meth folks that's good advice. Your muscles are meant to be integrated, which means they need to work together. The problem with most modern gyms is that people are spending their time doing the opposite. Yeah, because they want jacked arms. This is not rocket science. They don't think Mr. Colonel Man is looking for a totally integrated athletic physique. When you go into division one, strength and conditioning programs around the country, they're usually not doing functional patterns. They're doing compound body weight and barbell lifts that also integrate massive fractions of the body and actual functional movements like pushing and pulling and picking things about the ground and throwing them. Rotational work important? Yes, but it's not the only part of the picture. I said these guys were discovered or patient work and they were like, this is it. Share, it's a part of it. But the whole gym exists for really good reasons. Using exercises that train their muscles and joints. Scott, appraised the physique. On a... Looks functional. Looks functional to me. On a scale of can't get it to can get it. I think I know what to get it out of town. We'd get it out of town. To work in isolation versus getting into work as a system. Okay, I'm not sure of any specific sport move that requires you to do all of that load at the same time. It's like figuring out wacky ways to incorporate lots of parts of your body but not overload hardly any of them. Like your legs hardly work in that whatsoever. You just just one tiny little dumbbell like guaranteed if we sat that guy down and he could shoulder press a lot more. And like look in real world scenarios, you want bigger and stronger. Like learning to move like this is dope. But spending all this time, you just be a spent on sport training. Because like, you know, if there's like put this guy into a grappling match. Or whatever he trains now, he'd be better at grappling if he was actually big and strong. Gordon Ryan's out here doing bench presses and steroids and he's gonna beat everyone's ass. And all this functional shit is dope and all it's looks cool, it's got vibes. But sport training does the functional shit 50 times better than the functional shit can do it. Lifting is to make muscles bigger and stronger in coordinated ways. And you can do that with conventional lifts and a little bit of this stuff. This is overkill people. Big time overkill. We deviated from our natural roots of movement. Ooh. Folks, do not make fun of weightliftingers or crossfitters. Because however much you think you can move, they're better at it than you are. They're the best movement people in the world. Scott, do you think they're gonna try clown on strong men next? That'd be really funny. They're basically our good god. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right, so that specifically is great. Okay. So the bar is two things. The same load on both sides. So there's actually no rotational vector whatsoever. Rotating a bar is difficult when there's something pulling more on one side than the other. First, second of all, there's actually nothing pulling on either side of the bar because gravity points down. That whole demonstration of the bar back and forth is faking nonsense. It's a circus trick. Anybody can do that. The only limiting factor that is can you actually have the mobility to rotate your core, which is good to do for stretching or gymnastics work. And then everyone can do that. It is not a challenge. It is a fundamentally pointless movement. Ah! Oh, my god! Oh my god! This is happening. They dog down Jared Feather. Yes. This is such an honor, guys. This is IFPB Pro Jared Feather. My father. And he is a competitive pro bodybuilder, a former competitive moi tie fighter. He is a 510 and a 220 pounds shredded. He's a classic physique pro. And he also played, he was recruited by numerous D1 schools to play football. But it was an interesting concussion. So he just went to school school and that's how I met him. And Jared is quintessential athlete. And I can guarantee you he can beat the living shit out of jump higher and run faster than that 10,000 BC mother. Oh, they got. Who's an actor? This is not a video taken in 10,000 BC. All right, let's talk that shit. Wait, wait, wait. Is anything going to be said? Nope, this is just a joke. I can't tell you. I can't tell you. I can't tell you. I can't tell you. I can't tell you. I can't tell you. Oh, okay. So the guy doing this, that's Kyle Dake. Kyle Dake is one of the greatest American wrestlers of all time. And Kyle Dake is known as being someone who's really strong. I'll say this, unfortunately, Kyle Dake is associated with functional patterns. And Kyle Dake was one of the greatest wrestlers of a generation before he ever started doing functional patterns. And so, you know, if I was to say like, yeah, but who the hell is this guy? Like, Kyle Dake can take me down for I teleporting him from China doing it. I can't even see him coming. For sure, he can beat my ass. He could do all that bullshit. But functional patterns didn't make him him genetics. And about 18 years of hard grind to the face wrestling work made Kyle Dake Kyle Dake. So it's just a little bit. It's like if we talk about how awesome Jared is, but never mentioned the fact that he's been on both those of steroids and he was born perfect with a waste of this big to begin with. Got a lot of my face. Is that Jeff Nippert up there? Am I having a, yes, they don't Jeff as well. Damn. All right. By the way, if you guys are interested in like wrestlers with really cool physiques, like there's a lot of people with impressive physiques, lead movement abilities like Kyle Dake and men's son. And most of them just do conventional lifting. Most wrestlers do conventional lifting all around the world. And like there's lots of them that look cool as in Kyle Dake. This doesn't prove a whole lot. This does not prove a whole lot. We will never ever try out Jared and be like, you can look just like Jared if you get the arp and hypertrophy out. God damn it. Okay, so to, to their credit. You guys notice how Kyle Dake ripped that little chopping motion. Real fast real dynamic, huge follow through. That is a really good thing to do. And for wrestling and for almost every other sport, it's a really good idea to include very loaded, very fast acceleration based rotational movements. 100%. This is awesome. So the answer isn't 2025 versus 10,000 BC and functional patterns, I guess. The 10,000 BC Scott were just a bunch of people going to their deaths to fight elephants, the 50 times their size or whatever. The answers both guys, traditional lifting or whatever, barbell, stembells, machines. And rotational work. If you guys ever want to look up how the rotational works, actually done really well. Look up, discous, javlin and shop put throwers. They're already doing this, except they do a better than functional patterns. Because they're not addicted to an ideology that's exclusionary. Sorry, functional patterns. I'll love respect. The purpose of exercise is to move the lymphatic fluids. Right. So first of all, your lymphatic system moves around on its own just fine. Moving around, secondarily, to that can help it move. It's not the purpose of exercise. Maybe this clip is why they add a context, but the purpose of exercise is to give you all of the benefits of human movement. It burns more calories, normalizes your blood sugar and blood fats. It's healthy for almost every cell of your body. So it improves health and longevity. And it makes you more functional and mobile and less likely to get hurt. And it's a huge stress reliever and mood booster. But apparently that I call it the lymphatic fluids. Out the case. Although looking like Jack Jesus works for me. Maybe he's like a Jack Moses, huh? As more of a Moses guy. Yeah. Body needs to move every day. Walking is the best exercise for human beings in my humble opinion. Walking is too easy for most humans to be considered the kind of exercise that gives you the biggest bang for your buck. And it is very inefficient. Now walking is great. But you can do better than walking. Resistance training, especially resistance training with short breaks in between low rest to get your heart rate going is probably the most efficient way to exercise. But there's a ton of different ways of exercising that are awesome, saying that walking is the best one. At best makes no sense at all and it works just pure doctrine. It's the way we're designed to move through time and space. It's also a distressing exercise in these very stressful times. Yeah. These times are the least stressful in all of human history. It's probably the bad thing is that there's so little stress that we're going and saying from anxiety. But I will say walking is great. It's just typical functional patterns. Take something that's cool. Say everything else sucks and it's the best and be wrong a lot. Folks. You should give functional patterns a try. As they have many movements, specifically they're loaded high speed rotational work. They can make you better at being rotational athlete that can help you develop ranges of motion you typically don't see in conventional training. They can help enhance your quality of life and reduce injury. Some fatic flow, fourth dimension of water and the fact that these movements are categorically better than traditional weightlifting movements, a powerlifting movement is all pure nonsense and horseshoes. Functional patterns. You guys are doing great. It's just up to talk a lot of shit about other people. You can all put down our weapons of mass exercise science destruction, hug it out and live peacefully. And boy, many of the functional patterns people have quite nice bodies that I would love to hug peacefully. Anyway, I give functional patterns and has been around for a long time saying nonsense out of 10, which is actually a pretty decent system to add to your current system of training out of 15. What? I've been Dr. Mike and I'll see you functionally next time. Nice. I give them a fourth phase of water out. That was actually a true. The vibrational healing I can feel myself. Woo! That was fun. I feel more functional and I can detect patterns everywhere. Would you like more patterns that may or may not be functional? This video right here is going to hook you up. See you next time.

I'm O and W. Meeeeyyyy, I'm superman! What next fun? It looks really fun. It's just not an effective way to train. You're giving yourself a problem with actually getting a stimulus if you do this. Now if you're very overweight, maybe it's a way to get you into the child and all that shit doesn't f**k work. Just get in the gym and do some goddamn good work. It's got him died. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. I'm a former professor of exercise and sports science. I'm a competitive Brazilian Jutsu Grappler and bodybuilder and also a man with an amazing haircut. Oh my hair's gone. Today we are covering the worst. Well, I mean, I've been out the worst. Some of the worst of TikTok fitness. No, it's crazy. I thought TikTok fitness videos were all excellent technique and perfect training and intensity and logical programming. But who knew a some occasional videos are a little bit off the mark. Now before I get into this mood of mine, which is a ranting, raving, pissed. I want you guys to know something. It's all love and respect. It's all banter as they say in the United Kingdom. All good vibes at the end. So we're just having to take in the piss a little bit. Poking the bear. If you see any videos of mine and the internet exposing including this one. Be afraid to tee off on my dumb ass until the cows come home. All for fun. All for jokes. All of them are spiked. Let's do a little clowning. Three, two, one. TikTok is a clown show. Oh, what the fuck? 52, 100 times every day for 10 days and see for yourself. Okay. Let me tell you this right now. This is a lie. You can tell it's a lie by understanding the time course of hypertrophy. The time course of muscle growth is measured on weeks, plural at the minimum. And months at the intermediate to see some visible results. Let me put it to you this way more scientifically still. Weeks. We can start to detect muscle growth is occurring with the finest tuned MRI equipment. Months we can start to detect that muscle growth is occurring with our eyes. Years is when muscle growth is causing such a change to your external anatomy that people are like, Whoa, that looks really different. If you look at the day one and seven day, she's now at Scott one day, seven days. I mean, it's literally just Photoshop or just like both damn. Ridiculous also and the first one that that young lady is contracting her glutes in the second one. She's getting a Lordotic posture and just pushing her glutes out. It's actually a different pose. In addition to that, the waist size, if you can tell, is completely different. So this is just literal lies and it's got 131,000 likes and 64,000 shares. And the problem is that like like whatever, you know what I'm saying, like get out there lie, bullshit sell your crap, but like real actual people real humans just don't know any better. We're going to do this and they're going to do 50 to 100 times every day for 10 days. They're going to see nothing in all the stock cases and then going to have wasted 10 days. That's the shit to get me real riled.fels. I don't give make your money sell your bullshit sell your something. You feel me, but like you're ripping people off and giving them false hope. And after a while, people try not fads that just think exercise doesn't work for that man. The shit takes weeks and months. Got body here. Except, you know, I've got Dan and let me just watch the video. Duff. She's just like the easiest exercise in the world. Also, it's mostly a quad exercise. The lie extension. I mean, if you're weak enough for this to be challenging, dope. This is like a squat with half the load missing. Will it train your glutes? Normally, does it activate your glutes? Yes. Is it a lot of tension? Absolutely not. Again, the only way you're going to get results that they show here in the top right hand corner is if you do a Brazilian butt lift in that shirt. The last shirt takes a whole lot longer than seven days to heal from. This really got really as the worst of TikTok bullshit. Oh, yes. My hourglass abs. Workout routine. Which is the profile. The profile is called Stars for you. Very well. Alyssa, oh my god, I'm a flower. Long awaited workout routine. Exploding star. Guys, let me know if you would want more workout content. No. Please don't. Just getting out of here and see it again. Let's find out how this works. Worming up with a plank for 60 seconds. Okay, plank sort of just largely waste of time. She's also sagging into the plank. You guys can see that she has a profound amount of curve in her spine. What you really want to do with a plank is she should pull her elbows back a few inches. Lift her tummy and butt up so that she has a completely straight line in her spine. That's the difficult version of this. It means your abs are contracting the entire time. If you sag in to her lower dot of curve like she is, it actually makes the movement way easier and way less effective for the only muscle that's involved, which is your abs. Okay, plank dips. It's a neat exercise. This is a little bit of the obliques mostly trains an internal spinal muscle called the rototores. So you just never see it. It is really good for getting people to masturbate to your videos because it shows off your asshole. Number one benefit. Means. That's a swell ab exercise. It would be even better if she let the abs aight take the lead. Whichever combination you use, your results will climb higher than ever. All you have to do is bring the effort. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. But if these are tough for you, then this is a fine exercise. Good stuff. Twisted knee ends and it's just variation. Side plank, cool, trains do a bleaks. So if you want a bigger waistline, this is how to do it. Plank till failure scot. Wow. Sure. She really pushed it. That was it. Me. Got shaky legs. I want to prevent injuries. Use these bocobal exercise. This is great to work on balance or knee. It was. Scott, you ever have a program that just doesn't address me or ankle? Or my shaky legs. Shake your legs. You're sitting there and you're just shaking. Oh, this again. Also, you're practicing shaking even harder. Yep, bocobals will to some extent improve your balance, especially on the task of balancing on a bocobal. Outside of that, it doesn't do a whole lot of other. One of the best ones right here, single lift squats. You hold it down there for five seconds. Down where I'm out of the front, you ain't down anywhere. That's a third of the way down. It's working on nice and metrics and really shrieking those muscles and joints around the knee and knee. You know what else does that? Lifting weights. But much more. If you're really going to push yourself, add some weight. Make sure it's light and you're moving it slowly. This is going to be a chilly challenge in your vision. Why is he doing lateral raises the same time? That is nothing to do with your knee. Because you're going to want to lay for the unspoken surface. You're going to get your body for any day. And by anything, you mean just balancing on a bocobal, right? Because I'm going to prepare you for shit. Go try grapple after this. Try lifting weights. Try running a marathon. You will find that you were unprepared entirely. This isn't preparing you for dick. Because I'm for being a little bit better about it. Even this for good. It's a flow of force. Scott, I'm dying here man. Yeah. These videos are always fun for like the first six and then you're like, You think you're okay? We also realize like, there's a world of this shit, you know, and they just keep going. I collected these for months on and off. Oh, I just goes and goes. Because I want to make sure I got like a good sampling. You know, it's a never ending haul of these videos. Man. This looks fun. Are you getting too good of shape? Yes. Well, maybe gravity is the problem. That's a good point. It'll be good to reduce gravity by putting it into a bungee cord. Oh, nice. That'll be able to have more fun and get less out of it. Yeah. Great. That's so cool. You guys should check this out. The way the bungee works is it creates much fewer forces for you to have to push off the deeper you go. And as you come up, the force wreck was it becomes higher. So it actually flips the force curve into one that causes you less muscle growth, less Challenge to your body, less calorie expenditure. This is one of these fit gym kind of like, you know, trends that is just like really fun to do. Like Scott, wouldn't it be dope to like get really drunk or high? Get into the bungee cord and just around for a bit? Dude, I want to do it so bad. So bad. I want to feel like I'm a fucking astronaut. The thing is man in space, the astronauts have trouble maintaining their muscle because the forces are so low. You're literally like making yourself, you're giving yourself a problem with actually getting a stimulus if you do this. Now if you're very overweight, maybe it's a way to get you into the, I don't know, all that shit doesn't work. Just get in the gym and do some goddamn good work. Do a couple reps, really challenge yourself. Put yourself in the bungee cord. It's going to be fun. It's going to be most important. You also have to like remember how to do all the patterns. Scott, it's like a dance you remember. Yeah. We, I'm super man. It looks fun. It looks really fun. It's just not an effective way to train guys precisely because it is easy because the band is there. Take the band off, try to do some of that shit with your own bodyweight. Now you're having a hard time in hard times. But what caused you to actually get the results to you. Believe this was the meme exercise. No doubty were there like white women will do anything to take. Still void working out. White women will do anything it takes to avoid working out hard. One hundred percent. Can I just like, what do you think about like the bungee thing? Does that like work? I do with the green top. That's a great color. Folks, there is still more video to come. But we have a members area that if you click on and subscribe to and purchase just a little bit of money. But you get the unfiltered version of all these videos plus a ton more science. Nerdy stuff. Give that a look. It's somewhere on your screen by stuff to make us more wealthy so we can buy more unfiltered water that's raw. And it makes you healthier, happier somehow monetization. I don't know what I'm saying back to the video. Don't let me catch a hold of a scientific based lifter. Why? What are you going to do with us? Motherfucker. I don't even know who you are. I'm off. Your face is blot it out. Come on in with that real shit. I want this guy to run into Jared Feather and tell him, Hey, I'm going to catch a hold of you. Have fun with that. Have fun. Oh, one great comment. Scott gear is science. Literally it's chemistry bro. You are literally science based in the physical sense. I think people who don't like science based training come from one of two perspectives. One is they think some science based influencers over complicated things on purpose and they're completely correct in many cases and so lives total respect. The other one is they're just dumb and they don't understand science and they have to be against it because otherwise they would have to be like for it, but bad at it and they don't want to be part of that. What are you doing with that? I don't even oppose. Getty. Is he in a burglar mask? Yes. I hurt me. STONEphalt None of them did anything, this is a person leaning on a chair and hopping around. And also, your rectus abdominis muscles are functioning as a one unit at all time. Upper and lower abs are not a thing, unfortunately. And so, this is all fucking bullshit, and let's see if the obliques are involved at all. Yeah, I guess nominally, though not even. The leg race stuff actually trains your hip flexor, this is all fucking nonsense. I've been hate everything. Yeah, like ladies, if it looks like a bunch of bebop or hopping around bullshit, looks easy and fun, it's not going to get you in shape in an efficient manner. If it looks full range of motion, brutal, multiple sets to failure with compound progressive resistance, it's going to get you in great shape. But that does not appeal to the TikTok crime, doesn't it? Take this your only workout routine for a week and watch your entire body change. Your body won't change in a week. Guys, stop doing shit for a week or ten days or two weeks and expecting results. The shit takes weeks and months, come on. Dancing is fun, I'll give you that. You will not lose 114 pounds just dancing. Almost always and almost ever have to control your diet as well. Or a p-diet coach app, link in description. Kill me. Lose your back fat, spot reduction doesn't work, losing your back fat can only happen if you eat a little bit less, keep your movement going and lift weights to prevent muscle loss. This, 100 reps every day for 14 days bullshit guys. If you see XYZ reps every day for XYZ days, you are being scammed. This is the worst of TikTok scamming your ass. What the f- was that? Also the muscles involved aren't even your lower back, your lower back is isometrically contracting to position you there. You'll lose more fat, you know what f- me, I don't even know I bother. But I thought King Sugar was healthier than the bad industrial sugar. Oh no. How do they get the color in all these? Well it's with our good old friend, artificial coloring like red number 40. Which is vetted in multiple studies to be perfectly safe and has no interference effect on almost anything. Which is actually abandoned other countries. Oh my god. Do you guys know that civil liberties in their entirety are banned in half of the world? Do you guys know that they throw gay people off of rooftops in Iran? Should we start doing that here too? The banned in not a country's argument is the dumbest shit I have ever heard in this world. What about science? Is this just a popularity contest? Oh but you know in the countries of Europe we don't allow this to not do gannick stuff. Yes you guys also banned AI and now you have one frontier AI lab in the whole world is leaving you behind. Oh but we can still smoke a cigarette good. Because it's derived from petroleum. Scott anything derived from petroleum because I don't know any chemistry and I just know alchemy. It's gotta be bad right? It's petroleum bad. Bad. It's like drinking gasoline or something. But you might be having the sugar free alternative. Well those are made from superlose and ASK. We didn't know how to say that we're dating. Too horribly devastating, artificial sweet. They're not horribly devastating. There's some of the safest artificial ingredients ever made. There's some of the safest food ingredients ever made. They have no dependable downsides. Period. You're a f***ing liar or you're just dumb. Which one is it? You p*** liar? Uninformed. I shouldn't have said dumb. Three categories. One liar, blissfully ignorant, though confident, and an idiot. One, two, three, a shit man. You can even mix and match Bobby Parish. No offense. All vibes all love and respect. All jokes man. Open up a science book for the love of God. I'm back to my old bullshit, Huskot. I knew what would get you here, honestly. We're all about positive behavior and this channel. There's a certain amount of f***ing bullshit and lies. Which gets us into war mode. We're in war mode. This is me. This is us earning our singing for our supper, how daddy. Yes, sir. And then today I home with this singer, Chess. Yes, I'm killing man. I knew we had to get to this one. VR calistetics. When real calistetics are too hard, you simulate them. Okay, some kind of dildo, double dildo apparatus. Absolutely love this thing. Hashtag, Chess, Hashtag, Arms. Hashtag, Chess, Workout. Hashtag, Armworkout. Absolutely hate you. You can hit the middle. You can do the upper chest. You can do the lower chest. Okay, zero tension with the stretch. Tiny amount of tension with contraction. Try using this to get close to failure. It's impossible. You've been doing a thousand reps. Insufficiently loaded. This is essentially a toy that has no function whatsoever. If you want to switch it up to simulated peck deck, cold the outer ones and do some chest flies like this. But not only that, it's a arm trainer too. So just put these. Great, so it's the hardest at the top. No force at the bottom. Again, this is the opposite of the force curve we want. So this is dog shit. Also, what happens when I get stronger? How do I make this harder? The answer is there's no way to do it. Wait, but there's a spring sale, Scott, and I can help this gentleman monetize. It's a nice bicep cruise in here. You know, Scott, that it's a good workout when you can talk through it without losing your breath. The contraction you get with this thing at the very top, that's the most important. Literally, it's the least important. Got to make sure you're squeezing. Scott, when you're giving someone a device for how to give you a hand job, make sure your squeezing is excellent advice. Isn't it? No. Nice. Not too much. Not too much. Unless I'm in that pain area of my life, and then too much. Ha ha ha. As well as with the chest, make sure you hold in that contraction to get the most out of it. Now, okay. To get the most out of the worst part of the movement, thanks buddy. That's it. Ha ha. Ha ha. Folks, I've had more than a few people ask me how to become a content creator. You need content to create. We zoom in and what is that content? It should be scientifically based. Sorry, not even scientific based. Effective and well communicated. The communication I'm here is just fine. The effective part is completely missing. Moving around in dumb ass ways, pointlessly, gets to a teeny teeny benefit. Going to the gym, doing four range of motion resistance training with dumbbells, cables and machines, progressing through that to add reps or load, challenging every set to get close to failure. And over time, increasing how much of that you do, plus needing a really good diet at the same time, that is what is going to get your results. Anything shy of that, if it doesn't meet those criteria, is going to get you either no results or way worse results. And remember, your time is the most important thing that you have. If you piss away a lot of time, doing dumb shit, you'll have less time with which to do smart shit and plenty of regret. I know I'm being mean today, because this is stupid and I hate it. Now I hate myself. I rate TikTok, dog shit, pile of flaming poop and rubber tires all burning at the same time out of 10. I've been doctor my, I'm gonna go dunk my face into a whole thing of the ice cubes, make something happen. I don't know, I'll see you guys next time. Ooh, that was fun. Scott, do you feel ticked or talked? Well, definitely talk. Ah, yes, the talk feeling. Guys, if you want more of that feeling in this video right here, you can click on, but if not, then just stare into a white wall and wonder why the hell you ever did this to yourself. That's what I'm doing after this. You guys next time.

Consuming too much sugar kind of takes your mitochondria offline, that's like I couldn't make up more insane dog shit that's wrong than that. That takes the f**k it. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. I have an exercise on Sports Science Professor at Lehman College in the Bronx, the co-creator of the RPA Purchyv app, and I will be appraising some women's health magazines today to see what kind nutrition lifestyle and training advice they are giving to our finest ladies and seeing if it's great, if it's math, or if it's uh, let's read some magazines. I like to first look at the cover and see what's on the cover. Uh, that's exciting. Muscle Maker, this 2-in-1 core move works wonders. Fascinating. How hidden, penitere learn to put health first? Compiling. Page 41 are protein bar obsessions, obsessing, and power up the many ways to score off the charts energy. Both claim and lastly, a health report are you cortisol conscious? Don't be. No wait. You should be uh, I think. Let's find out. So we've got the move of the month. Move of the month is the muscle maker. Thank god, filed under full body strength level 5. This is a bad shit. Combined two classic exercises, a plank and a row for a core crushing stability challenge. Okay, let's cut right into the criticism here. So it's very standard. This is a very traditional move in the female workout world, where you're in a push-up position with some dumbbells in your hands. And then you roll one dumbbell, you put it back down, you roll another dumbbell, you put it back down. It is a gigantic poor use of your time as far as an exercise is concerned, because instead of getting a great back workout with a much heavier dumbbell and a much more stable position where your core isn't required to do most of the lifting, you are doing a really crappy low weight low focus, very not impressive backwork. Well, at the same time, just asymmetrically contracting your abs, which doesn't not much anything for them for fat loss or muscle growth or anything like that. It's a move. I would say is challenging in a way that is not stimulative. It's like if you wanted to train to become the best boxer, you would hit the back abunction. That makes you good at boxing, it's also hard. But if every five punches you hit the bag, someone need you in the nuts, it would absolutely make it more difficult. But would it make you better at boxing? No, it could make you marginally better getting need in the nuts. But it cares about that sort of thing. I don't think the ladies that read these magazines, they want to be leaner and more muscular and potentially healthier. This move is not an efficient move to get them there. I'm sorry, the muscle maker, not something we're using. This sucks. Next. All right, we are to the protein bar article where they recommend best buys. These finds one over testers with taste and substance. In ranked five is the total treasure, mosh blueberry almond crunch bar. The bar serves fruity blueberry flavor. That's the number one reason I eat bars. Along with lions, main mushrooms into 100% oh my god, there's an explanation mark there. If your daily dose of vitamin B12, both important for brain function, body and mind, officially boosted. There is a big problem with this is that they don't mention calories or protein at all, which are the two most important things I need gel about protein per year. Here's how to pick a good protein bar. If for how many calories have, it has a lot of protein, you're winning. This mosh brand has 12 grams of protein. It's keto. It has a lot of vitamins, lines, main, ashwaganda, omega 3. This is just like a cacophony of things you would put into. What? Well, no offense. What white women buy because they think it's like health. Oh my god, ashwaganda, that's like good, right? Like the earth has that or whatever. It's that. It's got the video you guys can be get a total calories for the mosh brain brand blueberry almond crunch protein bar. 8 that 19 card 12 protein 160 calories. 160 calories 12 grams of protein 480 calories I can get 20 grams of protein out of a pure protein bar. This ain't it. Not the worst bar in the world, but not the best. Let's go to the next morning maker, perfect bar, coconut, peanut butter bar, perfect snacks.com. A.M. Workout Warrior. It's high in vitamin E. Okay. And host of other minerals. By the way, it's not going to be easy to put extra vitamins and minerals into bars on a f*** powder. I don't know why they brag about this. Like copper and niacin. Oh my god. Which are important for sustaining energy levels throughout the day. That's all nonsense. Vitamins don't do that. You just get enough of them and everything feels fine. If you don't get enough of them, you don't really feel anything. And Scott, the video you guys do we know how many calories it has? Protein 16 cards 27 fat 22 calories. What is 50? Folks, 350 calories for only 16 grams of protein that's 20 plus grams of fat. This is a f*** candy bar. Post workout, it's not even ideal because it's so much fat and not enough carbs for the fat, but it's even a do a good job of replenishing or muscle glycogen stores. It's not enough protein. This just falls right in the line of one of those things that's really a candy bar. Again, sorry to get ratio for white women in the 40s and 50s. You're not wondering, Karen. All right, next, fresh baked feel. 88 acres banana bread protein bar. 88 acres dot com. Now, if had 88 acres bars before, but they weren't protein bars, they were just regular tasty bars that I had for more calories and they are really tasty. But they're not exactly ultra healthy. The six ingredients select, which reminded tasters of homemade banana bread, is powered by pumpkin seeds. You didn't know pumpkin seeds were a power source, but somebody notified the nuclear power development industry which provide the protein and offer crunch. I don't think pumpkin seeds are actually high in protein. Scott, can we get an 88 acres banana bread protein bar? 12 protein. In 19 fat, let me give you guys another rule. If there's more fat in the bar than protein, it's not a fitness bar. It's a f*** candy bar. I guarantee you the banana bread pumpkin seed protein bar for 88 acres, tastes f*** amazing, but it's not a mystery because it has a crap load of fat and not so much protein. You get a lot of protein in something with a limited amount of fat, it's challenging to make it taste good. But then it's actually a fitness bar. Next up, chocolate choice. Core foods, dark chocolate, sea salt, plant-based keto bar. Good. God, that's a lot of stuff. This rich, decadent option. Again, white women want only one of two things. Things that are decadent and things that are nourishing. Look at these magazines lying off, nourishing and decadent. The only two things that are interesting. This rich, decadent option tastes like a candy bar. That shit's got macros like a candy bar too, but has no added sugars. Thank God. Because you know, added sugars are so much worse somehow than natural sugars. No wait, they're just the f*** same. Instead, it's wheatin' with all natural oils. Oh my god, I love all. That's it all. Like aliolose, dates, and mong fruit. Anything natural and exotic, I think is like good because like love nature and it's like good. And the exotic, like other parts of the world, like different people and I love diversity. So I love that. Anytime I look at an alt category, it's in the adult film search. Folks, if you like that video, then you want to see the extended cut. Then please consider becoming a member. There's going to be a button right there. See there. Six protein and 11 fat. Folks, I tell you why it's rich and decadent. It's got a shit little fat in it and not a lot of protein. Higher protein usually makes things flaky and dry because that's what protein is like. And higher fat usually makes them rich and amazing and delicious. And then so when the protein bar, going to quote his six grams of protein, that's kind of a rip off. That's what it is. A sprinkle of flaky sea salt. Oops, I put the sea in myself. I was just being racist at that point. Think, and of course, white women want some sea salt. A sprinkle of flaky salt. That's an apart. I bet it's f*** delicious. But it is not a health bar or a bar that helps you get fit. It's just a bar with almost no protein and a crap load of fat. Again, a candy bar is competitive at this point. Lastly, and firstly, rank one is a wild card win epic bison bacon cranberry bar from epicprovision.com. I actually had this bar before myself. While it's lower and fiber than the other options only two grams, if meat of f***ing animal meat, whether f***ing with the fiber come from, this is ideal if you're craving something savory. This is really what this is all about. It's what you're creating. Gras fed bison and bacon pack in smoky flavor. While cranberries add a tart pop, notice it mentions nothing about health or macros at this point. It actually only attracts that it's not fiber. Scott, how bad is this? I know it only has seven grams of protein, which is f***ing terrible. 8 carb 8 fat. So we have more carbs and fats than proteins. This is not a protein bar. It's not health food. This is terrible. Let's move on on the next section. Ooh, food protocol. Most eats are energy dealers, but specific kinds impact brain chemistry. You know the bullshit's coming soon. In a way that gives you a more immediate and most important, sustainable boost, immediate and sustainable. To be further priced at one, here's what you want to fill up on and go easy on. Fill up on nuts. Specifically peanuts and almonds. Okay, that's horrible shit. All nuts work super super well for this regard. So the specifically is pointless. That's just filler like chat, GBT wrote this or something. The crunchies are an amazing snack choice for say and afternoon slump. They're not. Not staggest incredibly slowly. You won't feel the calories helping you until hours later when you don't need the many amazing ironwork folks. They toss in a hint of dopamine to your brain thanks to the amino acid tyrosine, not a limiting factor in dopamine production. For the level of God your brain does not have a f*** dopamine problem. As long as you're eating any kind of food at all throughout the day. And you know what I'll spoof dopamine? That's right. Fasting. The food you eat that mood makes more dopamine. That does have f***. Good God. Which according to Dr. Shaw, will help you feel more motivated and energized? Good old almonds motivating and energizing the ON peanuts, but not Brazil not those things are f***ing terrible for you and if you do walnut you're gonna die. What else is good? Fill up on chai tea. Chai tea is like this earthy thing. Really somehow connected to the people of Singapore which is exotic and it like nourishes your body but it's also decadent. I can write a lot of copy for white women in their 40s. Did you know chai is an aerovetic tonic made thousands of years ago. So you know work because shit thousands of years ago did such a great job. To be healing, energizing and tasty. Says Dr. Shaw, the not so secret energy ingredients are spices like cardamom. I mean like white bitches love shit like cardamom and anything that sounds fancy and herb it's like oh my god that's gonna nourish me right? And the dyes like well hold on it it's pretty dark a dim like oh my god you're f***ing out of me. Oh they go on with the spices. Ginger I love it. Black pepper ooh and not which I thought is like a candy bar ingredient. What I know. She suggests swapping regular sugar from mug fruit or stevia. Oh we got a video on that. And regular milk for coconut or almond if you're sensitive to dairy. Being that you read this magazine you probably find yourself sensitive to everything. Fatality. Chai tea. There you go. That's if you want to fill up on chai tea for that energy to f*** I know where it comes from because there's not even any calories in chai tea. Okidok. So terrible advice on fill up on. Let's see what they say to go easy on. Refine sugar. If you eat a lot of sugar you can make energy without really involving your mitochondria. Nope that's bullshit. I really try to give it the benefit of that. That's nonsense. Unless you're somehow just using fast glycolysis from carbohydrates to make the kind of energy you need for regular tasks which is exclusively for almost entirely energy for box-sade of phosphorylation which actually really does occur in your mitochondria. Says Picard. They got a lot of people on this heart. But as we now know exercising those parts of your cells is exactly what helps you feel more energized. Don't you exercise your cells with exercise and not like feeding them shit? I don't know. Consuming too much sugar kind of takes your mitochondria offline. The just like I couldn't make up more insane dog shit that's wrong than that. That takes the Cess Picard let them do their jobs naturally. Newsflash. If you eat a lot of natural sugar. It's sugar and by the time it gets to your cells it would have the same effect. So I guess fruit turns off your mitochondria which is somehow bad because they need more practice or something. Good God who makes the shit up. Let me tell you guys about the RP Hypertrophy app. With over 28 preset programs already in the app you can choose to make your own. You can modify an existing program or you can just run the programs exactly as they were written by eight personal. This app programs everything for you. Exercise is weights sets reps frequency the whole thing. After every single workout and every single week the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now you're pretty interested in the app, download the RP Hypertrophy app today. Ultra processed foods. They're proven to increase risk for fatigue, depression and cardiovascular disease. Those are mostly correlations but some of them are not so healthy so I feel that. Notes Dr. Shaw who defines an ultra processed food is anything you couldn't make in a kitchen. Watch this you guys ready? We go back up to Chyty and we find out which of these ingredients we can make in a kitchen. Cardamom, nope, ginger, nope, you guys haven't made your own black pepper, nope, and not megg. Pretty sure those are made inside of plants or factories or something. Don't worry you can make monk fruit and stevia in coconut milk in your kitchen. Nope looks like those are all processed foods and our own definition just just in the ass. Weird. The science is so fun. Shout out to the video guy. I'm trying to be serious. Let's see here. Anything you couldn't make in a kitchen. If a package girl or bar has nuts, seeds and honey, you could theoretically make, oh my god yeah you could theoretically have like a mass spectrometer in a kitchen. But you don't. But if you look at the ingredients on a certain bag of orange chips and we're going to guess that's not the case. You pry my Chyty is out of my cold dead hands and they'll be cold and dead quite soon because Chyty doesn't have that great for you all the time. Anything you make at home is going to be healthier because it's not ultra processed. You're using real ingredients as Dr. Shaw. Dr Shaw. You need to go back to school. I just know other ways for me to say that. Because in school you will learn that processing is not an inherently health promoting or health-trapped in process. If you process milk fractions and you create casian protein out of it or way protein, they're incredibly processed. I assure you their powders made in a factory but they're phenomenally healthy for you. You know what else is processed? Yogurt, Greek yogurt processed a shit and a holy fuck. It's really really good for you. But Chyty is in candy bars and all this other stuff because they have a lot of preservatives and they're really high in calories and they're really palatable so you too many of them. They're not ideal for your health. So yeah ultra processed foods are often not ideal for your health but it really doesn't matter what the processing doesn't what the end result is. So refined sugar again, it's if it's been a context of your meeting your calorie needs and you're meeting mostly nutritious foods or fine sugars totally fine. It's good to keep a cap on it because it can get so high in calories and because refined sugars often don't come with all the added nutrients. So this entire bloodvite is just justified with wrong things that are wrong. Next, women's health exclusive. See it says we're covered faster with America's first post-workout pain relief solution. First problem. Pain relief and recovery to completely distinct riboflame. Reduce inflammation with clinically proven ingredients and ultra bio-available phyto-some technology. Sounds like Bolshev to me but what do I know? The statements have not been evaluated by the FDA. This product is not intended to diagnose treat, cure, or prevent any disease. I don't know what's in here. $63. $63. $2 a day got it. Riboflame is a pride here. A proprietary phyto-some complex. Excellent. Which is turmeric extract. Indian freight, in sense. Quarce. Quarce-a-tin. Narrow leaf. Kona flower extract. Zik. Just a bunch of herbs and shit. Quarce-a-tin does have some anti-inflammatory properties but taking it, especially in high doses, after you work out, actually interferes with the mechanics the molecular processes of the workout that make you better. So taking it post-workout would be the longest possible time to take. So if you take the supplement in the morning or you take it in the evening, it's just some good stuff in it that you know may help you be a little bit less inflamed and give you some good nutrition, micronutrients and stuff. It's like a liquid, a vitamin supplement. Post-workout would be the longest time to use it. And if you have chronic pain post-workout, that's an issue for your doctor. So something you're going to take a pill for. herbs. Yes, so women's health magazine, I would say generally quite bad advice. Mostly, like, there's stuff in there that they say to do that you just don't need to do. Not very good advice, but very well meant and so will written. So there's some gems you can pick up if you already know things. I got to be honest man, if you don't really know fitness, nutrition, health, you pick up one of these and you start trying to learn stuff, you're going to be slogging through a lot of randomness until you get to actual good stuff. Typical. That sucks. All right, if you guys want to see me read another woman's health mag, parse the claims, say something in the comments. See you guys next time.

The majority of us are a menial acid deficient. This is one of the biggest f***ing lies I have ever heard in my entire life in the context of sport and exercise science. This is the kind of make belief nonsense that pisses me off the most. Folks like Gary Brock has to say some good shit, but then others should they do needlessly complicate your life for a maybe marginal or usually zero. That's a fact. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. I've been a long time professor of exercise and science. Look at the competitive bodybuilder and Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu grappler. And apparently a wear of a bromestay brand sweatshirt which you can get on the internet if you go clicking on it. In any case, today we I laser focus on a Mr. Gary Brecca who is a famous person who says a lot of things about how the human body works and about what you can do to help your health and performance that I consider speculative. Possibly wrong. Today we are going to try to be respectful and nuanced, occasionally at least for comedic effect. And possibly for a free real, we get a little bit per sneakity. Mr. Tee, a bit mean. That all for the best. Why are we getting a little bit mean? Because some folks, even though they are very well meaning, in some cases, or not well meaning, others like Dr. Oz who just exists to grip people off. They end up saying a lot of wrong stuff. Now I say my fair share of wrong stuff. But I love it when people call me out and especially if their critiques are based in some kind of evidence and or logic. And so today we're going to be doing a little bit of calling out of Mr. Gary Brecca to see if a lot of his claims stand up to the evidence. Now he says a lot of really good stuff and he's definitely one to look at, but he says a lot of stuff that just, well, just don't make no sense. Let's get into it and see what we can find. Three, two, one, Gary Brecca. All right, you know, everyone of the professional athlete said I work at with all of what I would call the superhuman athletes that I work with. I only have a work with people that have legitimate superpowers as well. If you can't live, you know what I'm saying, truck and throw it into the moon, I don't hear my roster. This is how I do. I can't have you with regular athletic abilities and salt in my ship. Gary, my massive respect for him would take him the best. I would be supplementing with a mineral salt in the morning, 10 ounces of water, first thing right out of it. I would hydrate and mineralize the body. Yeah, your body controls mineral levels very well, doing some mineral shit in the morning. By the way, most food has a float of minerals. And if you take a multivitum multi-minuil supplement sometime today, you saw this problem entirely. Having a mineral salt and putting into water is just like extra shit you're doing to buffer up that morning routine to 10-fucking hours. It's f***ing nonsense. I use one called Baja Gold Seasalt. I'm sure it's real cheap. If you guys need more salt, just sea salt won't do because you need every single kind of electrolyte. Patassium, you need chloride, you need sodium, and in the right amounts, they can be helpful, especially during and after workouts that are very long, very sweaty, and you need to rehydrate for other workouts. If I have that sort of thing where I have lifting early in the morning and then I've Gigiitsu later in the evening, I want to supplement with element, which we have a code for, link in description and all that stuff. That's actually a good way to do it. If you buy Baja Gold, I'm saying, I'm sure it's a fine sea salt, I'm sure it costs up the arm in a leg, and it's missing most of the shit you need in an electrolyte drink anyway. Stir it with a wooden spoon, not a metal spoon. The metal spoon will interact with the minerals in there and it will negate some of them. It's just like tier one nonsense. It's tier one nonsense. And by the way, Gary, you know that a wooden spoon, these wood particles, some of them come off of the spoon and go into your water. We concerned that you're consuming extra wood, particles and all the hundreds of different molecules that make them up, have we studied every single kind of molecule in wood? We mix the wooden spoon in, we're actually drinking it. And wouldn't the salt corrode the wood a little bit pulling even more of those molecules off where it just doesn't do that to metal? Maybe at all, or if I nearly the same extent, this is the kind of make belief nonsense that pisses me off the most. Folks like Gary, I'd like to say some good shit, but then other should they do needlessly complicates your life for a maybe marginal or usually zero net effect. Don't worry about what kind of spoon you're using. This is peak tier one insanity. The second thing that I would do is I would take a full spectrum of amino acids supplement. I would take a supplement with all eight of the essential amino acids. Don't Gary check this out. There are nine essential amino acids, my man. Thought whatever, who cares. 11 essential amino acids for developing babies because they can't manufacture some internally that we can and then nine for adults and children. Eight is just not anywhere in literature, so that's just wrong. I could be wrong about that, but it's unlikely. So it's nine first of all, second of all, amino acids supplements are generally in waste of time, why? Because when you need any kind of complete protein, anything from soy and many vegan products, all the way through every single animal protein, every single kind of meat, any kind of supplement like way or casey and or egg protein, milk, cheese, the whole in gamut. When you consume protein from those foods, they digest into all of the amino acids that you need. So instead of buying a super expensive amino acid supplement, you can just eat multiple meals per day with lots of protein in them, like you should be doing it anyway. Period. So consuming some kind of exotic amino acid supplement is a giant waste of money in time. I take one called perfect aminos, but you have one, I mean, as long as it has the full spectrum of essential amino acids, the majority of us are amino acid deficient. This is one of the biggest, fucing lies I have ever heard in my entire life in the context of sport and exercise science. The majority of us are absolutely not amino acid deficient. There's a term for that, it's called hypoprotonemia. You guys have received pictures, Google it, of starving children of Africa, and they're all kind of these crazy swollen bellies. That's what happens to you when you don't get enough protein. You are starving. There are almost no starving people in the United States shorter people addicted to meth and meth. I mean, we just forgot to eat for two weeks straight. It does not happen in modern countries. It happens now way less, but still happens in war-torn regions or regions with dilapidated non-market economies that can't feed their people or can't allow their people to feed themselves. That does occur, but it's obvious in its brutal. It does not happen in modern countries, essentially at all. Most Americans get more protein than they need, which isn't a bad thing, but the buffer zone is a real thing. And if you're under eating protein, two things are gonna happen. One, you're gonna get what's called meat hunger, which is when you want to meet. Scott, other than your many, many trips to gay clubs to resolve your meat hunger, you know what I'm talking about? When you just need a burger? Oh, I know about it. I didn't say hot dog. That's a burger. I suppose some penises are burger shaped. Yeah, I digress. When you have low protein levels, low amino acid levels, your body detects this very well, it gives you meat hunger, and then you go and have a cheeseburger and that for eight hours in a row, we'll solve any protein problem that you have. So not only is a solution to this not exotic and does not require some kind of weird amino acid supplement, it's the cost of the argument lag. It's also a problem that does not exist fundamentally in 99% of all Americans. So to say that we're all amino acid deficient is tier one bullshit. There's no other way to say it, I'm sure there's many other ways to say it. Sure, chat you can see it in a really polite way. While some people do lack essential protein intake, it's by no means clear that now Sierra, or that's mean, I can't do it folks, I can't be that nice. For people that are really into bio optimization for cellular repair to restoring what's called vaso motor activity in the body, the microbasko circulation in the body, which by the way is 70% of our circulation. I have a red light therapy bed, it's a full body red light therapy bed. It's $120,000. I don't expect anyone to buy a $120,000 bed. A little bit of a flex there, my man. You know what I'm saying? Hey, shit, I got a red light therapy bed, but your boy paid 240 for the shit. They tried to sell with a cheap shit, I was like, nah, family, I need the most expensive one. And then when they tried to sell me the most expensive one of $300,000, I was like, is there a way you can gold plate the shit? Cause your boy does not touch anything there's not even gold plate number diamonds. They took them a while, they got me the gold plate of bed, baby. I'm straight, drip it out here. But if you're gonna buy it for Ari, buy a red light therapy bed before you actually invest in a for Ari. That for Ari will do nothing. I'm gonna sell you your biology. I went on deep in this one guys. First of all, red light therapy beds. There are some potential modest improvements that you can find in skin health, recovery, pain management and inflammation. Okay, okay, okay. There could be a potential for better sleep regulation through circadian rhythm assistance, maybe. But the expectations are very modest. And you're not gonna get drastic health and performance gains. You might get some marginal improvements in some of these other qualities. It's best seen as a complementary tool. If you're already doing all the right stuff they have 120,000 dollars in this away. And it will never come up to the magnitude of a fact that you see with reducing stress and proving sleep, eating better and so on down the line. All the stuff you already knew you were supposed to be doing. But you haven't been doing anyway, Pimp, because you're out here trying to spend 120k on a red light bed to short circuit the ship. Unfortunately, it just does not work. In addition to that, the dosing of red light from commercial red light therapy beds is all often very inconsistent. And even though if you're getting the right amount of dosing, even if you have the product in front of you and Scott, what am I missing here? Oh yeah, $120,000. Which I could have spent on what? The thing is, unfortunately, Ferrari's typically Scott do not cost $120,000. They cost a lot more than that. Double plus. Yeah. Yeah. But if you save up instead of buying two red light therapy beds you get a Ferrari, he says, you don't get cellular benefits from Ferrari. We'll shit. And I'm gonna tell you why. When you are in a Ferrari, either at idle or at speed, you are experiencing low level consistent vibration. Scott is that true? That's true. Oh. Oh. I should that whets the girls up when you're at the intersection. Is that what that is? And the boys, too. Scott, if you have here a Ferrari at idle, there's more blood that goes to your glands penis than usual. Yeah, I think it's more for the boys. For artists or for the boys, you know? Yeah, the girls don't know. What gets the girls going? I don't know. They are P.I. P.I. P.I. P.I.P. APP comes with dozens of pre-made programs from two days of training per week all the way up to six days of training with specialized programs included for shoulders, arms, chest, back, legs, abs, and glutes. Each one with male and female options. You get them all and can use them as often as you like. Even building off of them to make your own customized versions for only about a dollar a day. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. There are documented effects of vibration on cellular biology. We have bone building and anti-ostyle parotic benefits. So exposure to vibration in some intermittent levels can increase bone building and reduce the bone resourption process, which is pretty dope. You can see in some studies, very small effects on muscle regeneration and even satellite cell activation, which helps make you more jacked. Some, especially in conditions of injury, you get tendon and ligament healing that gets faster with exposure to vibration. Scott, you imagine Ferrari someone's like, that's so god of you. You're like, I hurt my leg. I need the car to heal me. That's sweet. As soon as you check out the hospital, they're like, you're gonna go home. You're like, how long I'm going to track? You're all hangout time for a whole minute to heal. It improves low-level operation circulation and lymphatic flow, which is dope, clears your toxins for you better. It is a moderate vibration has been shown to decrease the inflammatory response. And it even enhances cellular proliferation and differentiation in some organ systems, including stem cells in bone. Get them bones big, you need that lamb over that Ferrari ASAP. And vibration can influence neural activity, specifically in low frequencies, can stimulate neurogenesis and support brain health. Although high levels of very high frequency vibration, I mean, you know, running that the red line there, Scott, may induce stress or neural fatigue. You know, also induce stress, taking corners at 90 miles an hour. But for the soul, Scott has a true to say that every human being has a part of the soul that can be specifically labelled as Italian motor sport. I don't know about every soul. Every soul, Scott, and it's some bigger than others. In a, in a, in a, in a ratio pagani's case, it's half of this. Yeah. Maybe all of it. Yeah, pagani. So yeah, it turns out if we're using the Gary Bracosta standard of evidence, which is to say use a few low quality studies that don't come to a very large holistic conclusion, the Ferrari actually has distinct health benefits that are comparable to red light therapy beds. So instead of pissing away your money and red light therapy bed, you know, I'm saying at least, Scott, do they lease Ferrari's other stuff? That works. Oh, yeah, you're gonna pay, but you can get it. You're gonna pay, but you can get it, which is what I say to all the girls. In any case, this is where rat folks, 2025, Ferrari's are evidence-based medicine if you have the low, very standard of Gary Bracosta scientific approach. Okay, let's move on. Wow. Is that Flex Lewis? Yes. Oh, yeah. Yo, what Flex said? Oh, wow. What he thought? Oh, yeah, fucking liar. You come on me, can show this thing, my Ferrari. It's painted, fucking, Scott Quick. What's the Welsh flag colors? I can only think of Ireland. Yeah. Yeah. My Ferrari looks like a fucking dragon. And what? And what? Yep. What's the flag? Razor blades, eyes. You guys know the rest. You've seen Peaky Blinders. Oh my god, it actually does have a dragon on it. Yeah, the Welsh dragon. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's green and white and red. Green and the fucking white. The color of my Ferrari. Yeah. And on you. What accent is that, even? Generalized Britain. You Britain's my favorite people. Folks, we're gonna be back to the video in just a second. We have a members area where you get to see this video and many others, except pretty much uncut, much longer, much more in depth and much more ranting. Honestly, quite meaner. In any case, all their stuff is in there as well. Remember those areas awesome. Check it out. Go click on things and let's get back to the video. The thing that I believe that we need to do is just get back to the basics. We're so afraid of the sun now. It is pathetic. You look at the car, the the the the parabolic rise in skin cancers. The parabolic rise. Look, it goes up and then back down. That's what a parabola looks like, not whatever. Let's continue. You can almost overlay it with the parabolic rise in the use of sunscreens. Gary. Big problem. The claim that sunscreen causes skin cancer is not just unsubstantiated, though it is. It is completely backwards. The amount of evidence we have that for multiple different types of cancers that sunscreen robustly help reduce the probability of you getting skin cancer is massive. If you put on an appropriate amount of sunscreen and you spend some decent time in the sun, you know, human and style wake up in the morning, look directly in the sun for eight hours until you're blind. It is shit like that. All jokes aside, it is good for you to spend some time in the sun for vitamin D production for overall wellness, especially in the morning if you can do it. But if you're spending an extended amount of time in the sun, especially when it's at high noon, sunscreen is a really really good idea. But it does back the question of why have correctly skin cancer rates been increasing. There are multiple reasons and deadly dick have to do with an increased use of sunscreen. Few reasons. One huge one improved agnostics. Back in the day, you just died of some shit. They don't even know why nowadays you're like, oh shit, that guy's got skin cancer. You would have your doctor often, they do a good screening, they're picking up way more skin cancer if you detect something more, the rise of it is very well demonstrated in the literature. If you're not detecting something, you know, it's still happening at huge rates, but you don't know about it. So it looks like it happens much less. Another thing is we have an aging population. In the literal sense that everyone's always aging, but also the fraction of older people is going up due to demographics stuff, nothing crazy. But when you have more older people, guess what you have more of, every single kind of disease, because guess who gets more of every single kind of disease, drum roll, it's older people. That's a huge part of why we're seeing more of all kinds of diseases. In a ton of folks like Gary Breckham, foritional comment and try to help us with toxins and all sorts of shit, sometimes they're right, a lot of times they're rough. There's also an increased recreational UV exposure. Back in the day, before World War II, people went to work, they went home, they generally didn't do a lot of outside sporting activities and stuff. While on the farms, did all kinds of stuff, that was not recreational and may got skin cancer all the time. Nowadays, especially more and more people get wealth here, the attending gauge of what I would quietly call all 11 respect folks white people activities. Scott, let's go through them hiking, whites, mountain biking, whites, going to the beach, mostly whites, really everyone, but mostly whites. What else we got? Yes. Oh my goodness. Golf? A pickle ball is the big one now. Pickle ball. It's here in the Austin metropolitan area and you're trying to get laid, go play some pickle ball. Those are all kinds of young people around doing it. All these other leisure activities of people do outdoors, they're doing them more and more and more, which is awesome. But also their exposure themselves more to the sun and not all of these people are diligent about sunscreen. You just know, look, I am a giant hippocrypt and no most ways. Especially with the whole sunscreen thing, how have my wife rub it on the top of my head because I'm a balding idiot, non-life face and on my nose and all those other stuff and on my upper chest and I'm really good about re-rubbing it, no. Because your boy rubs it another way you feel me, multiple times a day, everything. That's really, really where actual health comes from and kidding, maybe. Could I be better about sunscreen? Yeah, hell yeah. Would it be better for me? But is a high involvement in outdoor activities contributing to increasing rates of skin cancer of nothing to do with sunscreen and effect if we use more sunscreen, you'd have less skin cancer, yes, the answer is. Another one is ozone depletion, the ozone took a little bit of a hit and we're polluting for a while. That's getting better, but it's still not back to where it used to be. And so less ozone means less of a layer of protection and the sun's just really thrown up like it's that two middle fingers and now it's thrown up four that gets to us that increases those rates. And so in reality, skin cancer is something that you can to a huge degree reduce the probability of getting by properly applying sunscreen. And there is no mechanism by which nor is there demonstrated evidence of sunscreen, causing skin cancer. Just make believe on them, what a point, a fine point on it here. Telling people that sunscreen causes skin cancer instead of the concern causing it, you know, with all of its literal radiation and shoots at you. As I think a milder responsible in Gary's part, now we all say some dumb shit every now and again, me included, but I got to say no, that's not cool because some people might take Gary's advice is very popular person. And I would say he is remarkably good looking. Scott, what do we think about salt and pepper men in their 50s? Oh, I mean, come on. Tier one for Fox. Silver Fox. All right. He's like a VP at a corporation. He wears a suit. I see him. I just want my body to be given to him for whatever it is that he wants to do with it. What the hell's wrong with me? Nothing. A silver fox can't fix. So Gary's dope. He's really popular, which is great. He's some good stuff. This kind of shit man, doesn't because, uh, man, you're like somehow could get lots of people to stop putting on sunscreen and go out into the sun more without it and then that would probably cause some of those people to get skin cancer. More. And that's not cool. That's not cool, but all right. To that lifted my blood pressure a couple of points, folks, we had a lot more stuff because we pulled a lot of footage. We could easily have doubled this video. If you want another video and more of Gary Breck is interesting interpretations of science. He doesn't get some stuff right. In some of the stuff we have written up, but we just never got to that because we just got stuck in a swamp full of BS. Let us know. And, uh, yeah, lots more to say, but for the time being, I'm just going to say this. It is 100% an awesome thing that Gary's out and about trying to get people to do healthier shit. He did incredible work with Dana White, Massive, or Spat. Because at the same time, we have to hold each other to a decent standard of truth telling and of falling in line with scientific evidence and logical reasoning. So even though I sound like a cock sucker, because I am, it's all meant with the best to make sure that all of you folks get a real look. Am I trying to dog shit on Gary Breck and my saying he's a bad person? No. Am I calling out some shit I think is false? Yeah, it's all love and respect, but that adrenaline line somewhere just voicing my opinion. Listen, the great Gary Breck is stuff. Listen to my stuff. Plug both ideas into the chat you be tea, learn to Gemini, learn to whatever clawed, whatever grock shit that you use. See which person or which view gets the most love for me I? Let me know how that works out. In any case, I rate Gary Breck a person who does not know how incredibly beneficial for RR to your health out of 10. And I will see you next time. Alright folks, that was interesting. For more interesting stuff, right over here is a video you might be interested in. See you next time.

Uh, sorry, you were justifying a stupid programming thing. Sorry, I was a bumbley here, or what? I just want to roast a f*** out of your tea. But I think you couldn't, you couldn't roast it. Scott, video guy, cut the f***in' interview I've had enough of this. What? So, this is the studio, not coming out of here. Now we're not gonna put this out. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NSound's Periodization, and... Huh! Hello? Teleported in. A Mr. Will Tennyson himself. How's it going? Known for things like being Will Tennyson. And the best hair in the industry? Who's got better hair than you in the fitness industry go? Yeah, I couldn't think of anyone either. I can't think of either. Well, you did a nice thing, but also potentially a terrible mistake. Oh, I know. You sent me your workout. Usually, I tuck my tail, hide away in a little studio, and make fun of people that are too important to ever notice me. You may have seen that on the exercise I'm to square teaks videos. But you're in here in real life, because you're a real man, a Canadian man. I was gonna make an animal sound for the Canadian animal, which is... What's it, beaver sound like? Oh, is it really a beaver? I think a beaver, I'm loose. Oh, moose is like, moose. But Ron, because moose is serious. Yeah, you're work out also looks serious. I'm going to critique your routine with your permission right in front of you. Gross me, man. Mike. I sure know, you may not roast me, might actually like it. Because I feel like a lot of my trainings inspired by you. Get out of here. Seriously. You're just saying that to get out of a roasting. You'll see, I think you might be pleasantly surprised. Or, or, or possibly, ugly. Alright, so we have a day one, day two, day three, day four, day five, so it's a five, day product. Okay, so I took a look at this. My first thought is that I really like it. And not just because you had Mr. important on the internet, have a bunch of subscribers. Though that is definitely factor. The following video will be a lie, so I can set up to you. Be your friend. This is an interesting split design that I have used before. And I highly approve of. And the split is upper body, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, lower body Tuesday, Thursday. And I especially would like if you skipped Thursday and pushed lower body last work out to Friday. And then had Saturday as your last upper body workout. Because otherwise Tuesday legs, you're going to a bit sore. You go into Thursday a little bit sore, so you're not going to be performing your higher. You go a little bit tired, which means you can't perform your higher, which means you can't apply it as robust of an overload, which means you're not going to get us good results on average. It also increases safety because if your leg knees are still kind of weird from leg presses on Tuesday, you get to act squats there's day and it's like, ugh, but if it's Friday, that one extra day over time can make a difference. There's also another really smart thing you did here, which is your day two and day four, they're not actually leg days. They're leg and arm days. So you train, push and pull Monday, Wednesday Friday and you do doubts. And then you do legs Tuesday, Thursday, but also your biceps and triceps. Yes. This is a really good idea for a few reasons. Upper body in one day. A lot of, right? So it's a good idea to sort of ease up on the upper body, take a little bit of burden off it, throw it onto the leg. That part of your routine that you took the arms out of the upper body, I think it's, is fucking great. So the overall structure of it, I think it's awesome. And why am I saying that first? Because there are kind of two elements of critiquing a program. Maybe three. People just think you look at the program and you read it line by line and you critique it, bullshit. Because the ultra structure of the program is the most important part. But for you, tell me, hey, look at the exercises I'm doing for triceps. I want to see where you train triceps and respect to each other during the week. I want to see if the frequency is sufficient because if you only hit triceps, one, so my God, you should be hitting everything kind of two, four times a week. And if you try steps, let's see if a big chest day on Tuesday, but you're a crazy tricep day on Monday. It's like, but your triceps are going to be tired and limiting your chest. So the overall structure is the first thing I look at at a program, which is why I just did what I did. Yeah. The next thing you consume in on is the specifics of each day. Then that's what we ask what's in the actual exercises, what's the exercise selection, etc. We can get real funky with that. The last level, which I don't have, what we can chat about later, is how does your program change in progress week to week? Because you could have a great program in week one, but if you never change it, you never auto-regulating, you never adapt to it, it stops me in the best program after a little while. But if you make some subtle changes here and there, like the RPI-Pertrophy App does for you automatically, for just $1 day, you sign up, link in bio, settle down, very subtle. So that's that end of the program. Let's zoom in on the exercises. Yeah. Let me just go to the one by one. Day one. My favorite day. Is it really? Yeah. Is it just because you're like a Monday type of person? Yeah. My man. I had two days of breath, so I'm like, let's go. It's more than a year. Yeah. I'm overqualified. First exercise is incline Smith Press, a three sets of eight to 12 reps. Nothing wrong with that whatsoever. I think it's great. A compound movement. When your fresh Smith machine is a fine tool to use in the gym, not a lot of manhood points, but you're in the gym to get saucy and swall, not to look like a man. Exactly. You look plenty like a man already. Although you do have a boy who's superior, since anybody ever told you that, I'd like a Peter Pan. This is a facial hair I can't grow. This is really it. Yeah. Love the incline Smith rate rep range. The set seemed very reasonable. Then you go to weighted pull ups for two sets of eight to ten plus one back down set assisted. So the eight to ten weighted. Mm-hmm. And then I find, at least for me, when I do like to like have you first, and then I back down to light, I feel a lot better. It's amazing. Mind muscle connection blows up. I love it. Huge approval. Number three, we're back to chest machine chest press for three by 12 to 15. I love it. It's a higher repetition range because you're a bit more tired and time for super strength stuff is over. If you're very good, T bar row three by 12 to 15 reps, excellent. No problems there. Your life is excellent. Full-rum laterals. You see, did you see the rep range? Three by 10 to 20 mile rep matching. And then after my own heart and yes, the my rep matching is terrible. For those of you not in the know, did you just put your foot closer to me? A little bit. Okay. We're married. Yeah. But yeah, I don't know where to ring. But yeah, she's not happy with that. The my rep match is awful because it's however many sets you get. However many reps you get in your first set, let's say it's two or I already get 18. You have to take as many my rep breaks on your second, third, and fourth, whatever sets you do, as it's required to match that first total rep number. So it's 18, 18, 18, 18, and it's terrible. And then in that spirit, you do some cable y-razes. Now, what are you targeting with those y-razes? Side down. Side a little bit of rear. Side, I like to try it, but like as far back as I can, squeeze hold and then you drill down. Perfect. I love it. Three sets, 10 to 20, my rep match. My only critique in this really isn't to critique. It's a suggestion for an alternative way of doing things is if you clustered the chest work together and then clustered the back work together, that might have a maybe a tiny bit of a beneficial effect. It's not good for enhancing strength gains because you want to be rusted between the exercises, but it sums up more local metabolites for you. Your chest is pre-futigued with the first exercise, it gets really cooked with the second exercise. And it allows you to maybe get a little bit more local fatigue for the same amount of systemic fatigue and that might have a bit more of a hyper-traffic drive. It's just not a big deal. I can't even put my scientific reputation on it, but it's a nut benefit. A chest plus back pump is like neither one of them could be that pumped, but a mega chest pump, flexing that buck and bitch, it's in the corner that never looks at you. And then back pump, you turn your back to her, do the same thing, maybe she's like a me, she's not who cares. And then you're good to go. So just a quick suggestion, but this is awesome. I like this a lot. But don't don't worry though, yeah, you're not other. What's this four whole days? You're going to fuck this up. Day two, lying hamstring curl, three by a 10 to 20-mire at match. My man. Did I ask for that? Yes, a man that likes pain. That looks like a great idea. Also training your hamstrings first a lot of times is really good because they don't systemic with fatigue a ton. But if you did quads first, you would just be so blown up systemically that you'd like to look at the leg curl machine and you're like, man, I'm not a fuck this. I can't, though. And also my knees are so fucked. I find if I do hamstrings first, it helps it. No way, perfect. It warms you up. A lot of people said that John Meadows RIP used to say that that was a good thing to do. Yep. Then you go into leg extensions, three by 10 to 20-mire at a, did you get a lot of leg extensions? Do you get huge pumps and stuff? Oh, yeah. Yes, stuff. Okay, great. They're great exercise, but my stimulus to fatigue ratio personally from me on them just sucks. So if yours is good, you're the man. So I'm really screaming by the set three. I'm like, yeah, yeah, I'm screaming just because I'm a show off and I have to have all the attention. I don't feel anything. Number three, single leg press. That newly added. Explain. I was kind of tired of doing leg regular leg press for three sets of 12-15. I feel like I hit plateau on it and I was just kind of like stagnant with my form and everything. Sure. I was like, what's up with you up a bit and come back to it later. Do you like the exercise? If I have a, you've been liking it. Yeah. I crazy made it. I don't get dick out of it. It's two unstable for me. I fucking hate it. I can't stand it. And my adactors end up getting super fucking sore because the stability requirement. But if you like it, mego approval. I would just tell people that there's something magical about the single leg leg press. You're just doing it out of variation because there's something different. It does take longer. Like if I'm getting into leg press, bro, I'm doing both legs at the same time. Like that. I want to be in that machine a little bit. I want to get there though. Eventually in this program. Oh, yes. Oh, yeah. Excellent. So good so far. Hacksquat. Two sets late by 12. Why the single leg leg presses first? You can go heavier on a hack squad. I prefer to have it earlier. What's the use? I used to go heavy on the hack squad. And this is like, you know, you're talking about progression within. So I like to progress. Obviously sets reps. But I feel like I like to kind of change exercise order as well. Like I was kind of stagnant on the hack squad for a while. So I wanted to kind of get to the point where I'm doing the same weight on Hacksquat's as my later and later in the accident. Okay, perfect back burner. I love that. Then that's it for legs. So far great leg routine. And then spider curl, three sets of 10 to 20 minute match. Spider curls are fun. They're very effective. They do prioritize them. I'll slow the shortened end of the range of motion and really de-prioritize them lengthen. By on the canocly it would be better to choose an exercise that stretches you behind or something like that. And climb dumbbell curls, meta-handslomen Bayesian curls or whatever. Or this is what's next. No way. That's in there. Yeah. My name. But other than that, that just be being personic. Yeah. Like this is totally fine. I've done a crap load of spider curls. Then there's cable curls. Which is the sign behind the back. The back very coat. That's excellent. Those fuck me off. Oh fuck. Super set with skull crusher to heavy plus one lighter set. You're doing your skull crusher with what implement. So I'd be like the first two sets of eight to ten. Okay. With a barbell? With dumbbells. Dumbbells, cock. Where do you put the dumbbells to the outside of your ears? That's not my ears. And then I just extend back. And then I'll drop the weight for the last set and I'll go 12 to 20. Dope. That looks really good. So far so good. I got to take it over this channel soon. I think you're actually charged now. Yeah. Are you talking to Mike? No. You have to do my hair. You actually do it. That's a smaller deck. Day three. Flat Smith, press three by 10 to 12. I love it. When I first looked at this routine a couple of minutes ago, I was like, how much my fucking doing the same shit over and over? No. One was inclined, one was flat, very good. And then you have seal row three by 1215. Seal row is an excellent variation. But they're not my favorite back exercise because unfortunately, he sends your flat. It ends up being that the maximum difficulty of the exercise is closer to the contraction point. But when you're super stretched out and we prefer exercises that give you a big challenge on the stretch. So the seal row looks like a good exercise. Another thing is, do you have balance problems on there when you pull up your kind of shift forward and you pull down your shift back? A little bit. Yeah. So the seal row to me when I first saw it as a machine, I was like, whoa. But then I tried and I was like, ah, does your seal row thing have a cambered bar so that you can, ah. No. So it clanks. Yeah. Not ideal, but not the worst thing in the world. He did dips two by 10 to 12 amazing. You're doing those for chest and triceps and all the things. Yeah. Excellent. How low are you going? No. I go like it. I just like four seconds of centric. Ooh. Nice one at two second parts. Uh, I can tell from your juicy packs. Yeah. Are you trick free? Why? Sure. We'll see. Neutral grip pull down. Three by 20 my right match. My right match on pull ups. You must be out of your mind. What kind of form pump do you get after that? That's the same. That's actually the only exercise that you straps. Yeah. Yeah. Back training hugely benefits from straps. And a lot of people make it an ego thing. Look, you book and use that. Look, a crutch. Well, the fucker, the gym is a crutch. You dumb asshole. Also, you buy fruit from a grocery store. You're supposed to be eating with your bare hands like liver cake, a real man. Yeah. Uh, 45 degree laterals to upright roast supersat. Mm-hmm. A man after my own heart. My right match out. And then face bowls three by three to four sets to failure. Now, this, well, you have stepped on my toe. Uh, you know, what is to failure if I don't know what rep range is that I assume sets of three to failure. So it's a, it just says X failure. There's no right way to three to four sets. So basically, if I'm like, oh, my third something to fuck, this goes good to them. Another one. How many reps you're doing? I'm just going. I pick a weight and I'm just, I'm just going. So I've been saying upwards of 25. Oh, I see. Yeah. 25 plus because it could be 20. Scott, video guy cut the fucking interview. I've had enough of this. What? You dropped your mic. What do I do? I just wanted to see you bend over and you. Sorry, you were justifying a stupid programming thing. Well, I guess I was making it for myself without thinking about making it for myself. Because you know things. Yeah. And you already know that. And I was like 40. I can typically get, yeah, 25. Yeah, 25. I'm going to go there. Perfect. I take my critique back. Sorry, I'm boring here. Oh, I have a fucker still here. Isn't like, he doesn't can it. I mean, you or something. Day four. See the hamstring curl. Three sets of 10 to 20 reps. My room match. I love it. My room match on that is terrible. But also super effective. It's like once you're in the fucking machine, just go. See to this awesome because you did lying earlier. This is excellent variation. I'm not seeing any good mornings or stuff like a bedlifts or anything like that. Explain yourself. So enjoy them. Yeah, they suck. Yeah. If you wanted a bigger, narrow your back and a bigger ass, which I guess you probably don't. Yeah. Then you could do that, but no worries. Leg press three sets of eight to 10. That's totally cool. I would like to see higher repetitions on the leg press, especially with my reps. I think typically the legs just get blown up from higher reps a little bit more than sets of three to eight or something like that. Or sets of eight to 10. But if it works for you, rep range is also personal. Smith squat, two sets of eight to 12. Love. Easy bar curl, three sets of 10 to 20. My room match. Amazing. Tri set push down, three sets of 10 to 20. My room match. What the handles are using for the push down is just to make it less straight bar. Look at Barbar. Yeah. Actually like a straight bar best. Yeah. People are like, if you ever try the fucking deal no attachment with the fucking leg. You can't go nearly as happy. Yeah. And it also like actually feels worse on me. People see it like all use the rope because my elbow is not like, dude, I try to use the rope. It hurts my fucking elbow. Yeah. Fuck that. Are we built similarly? Some places far off. The fact that we're just both adult men. Yes. That's where the similarity ends. Incline curls, love. Three sets of 12 to 15 reps. You control the eccentric on those. Always. Of course. I'll believe you for now. Will. Day five. Last day. Pack deck. Would you spell wrong? Did I? Was it a DCK? I don't know actually. So I was thinking you'd riff off that and come back to me and say, it's actually a SPELLA. Folks, let's know the comments, how do you spell Pack deck? I think I'm right. Don't go that out. Is it? I think I think like a deck. You're on the deck. It's like a, you're like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm like, there's a K at the end of the word. Yeah. But we're not on the. No, we're just on a machine. Yeah. So why is it called? Because I think it's like Pack PC. Yeah. And then deck. Just for now reason at all. Yeah. Great. Three sets of 12 to 15. Now which one is it? Is this one? Yeah. So a machine fly. Yeah. Same idea. Cable row. A three by 12 to 15. Are you doing this with spinal flexion? Or are you trying to keep your back pretty straight? Well, I try to reach. Oh, my man. It feels fucking great. Yeah. A machine chest press three by 12 to 15. So it's one to flat chest press. Okay. So the first one, the other chest press was an ink line. This one's like I'm lying flat. Now day one exercise three was machine chest press. Yeah. But that's so that one's an ink line one. Slightly inclined. This one's like I'm lying flat. A flat one. A flat one. You know, like dumbbell presses are just the variation you're doing. I just did a whole stand with dumbbells. I'm like, like, beautiful. Perfect. It's interesting because a lot of the questions I get on social media is like I post my workout and any exercise someone picks like they're like, I just do regular bar bar rows and they're like, why not cambered bar rows? And I'm like, that's like telling someone who ordered a rice dish like why not pasta and like, I don't know, tomorrow pasta, Jesus Christ, like there's multiple correct answers to the shit. So this all looks good so far. Close grip pull down. How close? Like the the the bar? The bar. Yeah. Oh yeah. Do you feel a bit extra at the top? Because my shoulders won't allow me to stretch at the top of that one. I think, yeah, I think so. Super. And you touch your chest at the bottom. Excellent. That looks good. Cable laterals. So I'm like, I put them behind me here and I don't. Excellent. Excellent. Excellent. Oh, look. It's three sets of failure. Yeah. We're not going to broach that again. We've already beat that to the right. So I pick a weight. I can probably get at least 15 and I just go. And then I went some like failure. Then I kind of. Burn them out. Yeah. Load lengthened partials are great. Yeah. And then lastly, exercise number six for day five machine laterals, which one of these these ones were okay, those. Don't you like to like the. I thought to wish man. The Atlantis. Yeah. Yeah. Well, we can't all be rich, Lamborghini owner butler collectors like myself. I assume you came from a life of branding poverty in Canada. You want to stay in America? I would love that. Can I do in the house? I guess living the gym. Sure. Their condition and heated sent from my iPhone. What's that I've never heard of that before? Is that a workout routine? I've no come back on that. That was just a stupid joke. It was a joke that will probably delete and editing. Yeah. By that I mean, it's a perfect idea. Yeah. You look like a fucking moron. Will. This was a bit tenuous for me in real life. I'm actually a nice person. Believe you're not. I didn't want to roast a fuck out of your team. Because like you could have sat me some shit. Like I don't really know you bro. We met yesterday. So I think you shouldn't. You couldn't roast it. Because it was so good. Yeah. Exactly. But it could have been shit. So before I started this, I was like Jesus Christ, like we're collabing with world. This is great. I'm going to roast him. He's going to say fuck you. He's going to leave. He's never going to post the videos. We're going to get no subscribers. He's going to suck. But it turns out like your shit is fucking pretty dope man. And you kind of seem to know what you're doing other than the fact that the failure of thing is just a side of it literacy. And dare I say degeneracy on your part. It's all numbers until you just turn into a bro. Because when you get tired at the end, you just like rage out and I fuck these numbers bro. My rep range is pain on those. So would you give me a score? Oh, oh God. Yeah. I'm going to have my report card. Yes. Parent teacher interviews. Your parents are like, come on. I'm a career person here. Tell me how my son is fucking up. I would give this a 95 out of 100. It's an A. It's not an A plus. It's your not Jared feather. But it's almost as good as it gets. And if I saw this program online and someone was like, hey, could you critique Will Tennyson's program, you and I were boys like we are now. I would start filling the video and then halfway through Scott would be like, this isn't bucket. There's nothing entertaining to this. It's just another review of a really good program. So is this the day or not? No, we're not going to put this out. He. Guys, follow us, got it. If you don't already. And if you've come here from Will Tennyson's people, you want to follow the channel. Just don't let your kids watch the channel. We get that. You just understand. We're all the sober. Yeah, very good. Peace. Thanks. So I like it.

Okay, don't let that breakfast stuck here. I'm sorry, what? Don't let your breath get stuck in your f***ing neck. You would die if that happened. Peak nonsense. With a f***ing these people come from. Ahhhhh! Hey folks, I'm Dr. Mike Isor-Chalofranis-Sons-Purutization. I'm a professor of exercise and sports science. Leave in college in the Bronx. And I am the creator of the RP Hyperchewy app. I'm going to be praising Mark Wahlberg's Hollywood workout. I can't wait. Let's get to it. I've traded Mark Wahlberg for 13 years now. Gotten Ready for... Brian Winne is an athletic performance coach. Mark Wahlberg's not an athlete as an actor. So, fault number one. If you guys have been through these videos with me before, this is probably going to be a giant disaster. But I'm getting out of myself. Maybe it's great. Gotten Ready for several movies including painting, gain, shooter, the fighter. Hey, it's training for a long time. Good. Good. He knows Mark's body. I know Mark's body pretty well too. Mostly from pictures and videos that I have in my collection. The other day, Mark's got to be able to move like a cat. Like a cat. And still wield heavy ass gun. Okay, he's aren't real guns. They're prop guns for the 50th time Hollywood. But maybe they're good prop guns. And they're actually regulation weight. That would be dope. Mark needs to be strong for that, I agree. In order to do that, he's got to be athletic as heck. He didn't swear. He said athletic as heck. Very nice. Mark Wahlberg always has gardening gloves on when he trains. I just don't know why I can't figure it out. Folks, when you wear gloves, when you train, it does nothing for your calluses. How do I know that? I used to wear gloves when I was younger. It did nothing for my calluses. And also it's just gunky and ooey and gooey and sweaty and gross. Just don't do it. Don't do it unless you have a compelling reason. I don't know about which made him arc does. But it's unlikely. Oh, god, the f***er rebigins are ready. Train like Mark Wahlberg. Others are very young picture of him into older picture of him. So we work out in two days split, meeting that we have a day a regiment and a day b regiment. Two days split, day a and d b makes sense. So let's say on Monday, we do upper body pushing and lower body pulling. Then on day b, our focus is on the flip side. So now I have upper body pulling and then lower body push. Okay, so he does upper body pushing and lower body pulling on one day and then upper body pulling and lower body pushing. This is a very strange way to construct a split and I'll tell you why. There are exercises like cable rows, bent rows, almost any kind of row, almost every kind of stiff like a deadlift in good morning, which pretty severely tax your posterior chain, including your back. But also tax other parts of your posterior chain like your glutes and your hamstrings and your lower back is a big limiting factor in many cases. So what I would like to see and as much more commonly done for well sort obvious reasons is push upper and lower, which means pressing exercises and then exercises mostly for your quads like squats like press, etc. And then on the other day pulling exercises with lower body pulls as well. Stiffly, another good morning's deadlifts, things like that. Now when we talk about form from arc, a lot of what we do with is that upper cross syndrome. Upper cross syndrome, not a real syndrome, by the way, this is make belief PT bullshit. A lot of that little slouch that all of us are developed. All of us are not developing a slouch from the sedentary lifestyle and texting, right? Texting does not promote folks. Poster is the single biggest cesspool of bullshit ever. Poster is mostly genetic is almost nothing to do with muscle strength. It's just how usually sit. If you want better posture, check this out. Just be attentive, sit more upright, and over several weeks you'll learn to buy default, sit more upright. There's no exercise you need to do in the gym. Nobody has bad posture because their pecks are too strong and their back is too weak. If that was really the case, your back would be constantly pulled into eccentric load and then hypertrophy and grow to respond to get better and auto fix that posture. And also, you'll notice something about your muscles. They're not just on all the f*** time. If your pecks are really big and strong, my pecks are rather big and strong, if I say so myself. What are they doing right now? Not deadly dick. I'm not sitting with my f***ing pecks activated. With a f***ing these people come from. Wait a minute. Hollywood. Why we use this particular exercise? Spine band overhead hold. Why do you use this particular exercise, Mr. Wind? Is the chaos that you have to control? What? It's the chaos you have to control. No, my friend. If you open up your gym door and three rot-wilders run in, that's chaos you have to control. This is you laying down with a f***ing band all around your body. It's a shit mini band too. It's barely any work. Back to the, you asked a whole dad band apart. Really accentuates the muscles that have to be on the stay tall. No, this you want to accentuate the muscles that have to be on to stay tall. Otherwise, you would be accentuating the ones that keep you short. And short kings know a fence, but that's a bad thing. Absolutely press this low back to the ground to keep these ribs down and tuck. Engaging that anterior core and tighten it up with that breathing. This is one of our big bang for your buck. Warm up exercises for the post-year chain. Absolutely. The focus on good breath. Innose out the mouth when you breathe. Guys breathing in with the nose and out through through the mouth is nonsense. Almost any breathing technique that doesn't involve vipassana meditation is f***ing nonsense. Evolution designed you to breathe, you do it real f***ing well. Believe it or not, you even do it automatically and you're asleep. This is high grade BS. And that pole part crap is not a great. Warm up for the posterior chain. You know what does a great warm for the posterior chain? Deadlifting. Stiff like a deadlift. Bet rows and any other exercise that uses a f***ing posterior chain. Aaaaaaah. Okay, don't let that breath get stuck here. I'm sorry what? Don't let your breath get stuck in your f***ing neck. You would die if that happened. It always goes to your lungs. Peak nonsense. We've achieved it folks. After like seven episodes of whatever the f*** exercise science show we got on this channel, we're here. You're gonna die. I'm not being able to breathe properly. If you're not doing wha- Whusaw bull shit. Kill me Scott the video guy. No wait wait I'll do it myself. I'm breathing normally. Oh shit. Oh my god that was so crazy. Of course mountain climber, or which is f***ing pointless unless you're warming up for field sports and a f***ing power plate folks. I was actually directly involved in research on the power plate. No offense power plate company. Though I do think you sell a product that's entirely needless and insanely overpriced. The power plate was a vibrating platform. What it does is it actually helps you while you're on it to be much more flexible than you would be if you were not on it. It's great for stretching. What's happening here isn't stretching. It's warming up in a power plate. Does precisely the following to help you warm up. Diddley dick. When we start getting to any pushing motions, a big thing that can happen is that. Okay so his technique sucks. His f***ing dive bombing onto his chest. His pressing up visibly asymmetrically. He has the dildo bar ab thing in case what you hurt your chest dive bombing. Hang on idea. Control the centric and you won't have to have that stupid thing on there. Limiting range of motion. Limiting the centric load. Limiting the stretch. Limiting your growth. Damn, am I an a tear today. It's important to get the core part of the pushing complex. What? If you get the core part, you now contract your abs and even more extremely push into a f***ing folded over crab. When you're doing a proper bench press, you retract your shoulder blades. You actually relax your abs so that your chest can arch and then you're a good pushing position. Is the very opposite of what he's saying? It's as if it's all f***ing make belief in Hollywood. That actually makes lots of sense. Now as Chad Sessa first push up, I have my perfect plank position. I'm going to get him to bring your chin over this fence. There you go. So now I have a direct line. Rist under the shoulder. You don't want to be anywhere else. You don't want to be anywhere else or else what can happen. I don't know. So go ahead drop into your push up, chat by falling forward. Notice that forward fall creates that 90 you've been here in the army. 90 f***ing degrees it had to happen at some point. What happens when you go below it? I'll tell you you get more tricep hypertrophy. What happens if you go above it? Nothing magical again. 90 degrees is as Arnold would say. Bullshit. Get out of here. No. What's we've worked on our breath, worked on that posture. We've round out our warm up with some verse of climber. By the f***ing warm up, then lasted 50 f***ing minutes, bro. We've got to leave. What does this 10 minutes left for the workout? Versa climber? You know, f***ing hard to Versa climber is to do. You're going to be gasped out by the timing it to your workout. You may not have a Versa climber handy in your gym. It's still work on your crossbody patterning. Crossbody patterning. A make-belief term by a person who does not have an advanced degree in coaching athletes. Here's a couple of exercises that I love if you don't have Versa climber. I'm a bear crawl. I'm a bear crawl in a figure eight pattern. So he's going to be crawling around. I'm sorry. I'm a bear-rape pattern. I've done this once to great benefit. I paid my regular 380 pound dominatrix to put a ball gag in my mouth, where I summarily crawled on the ground in front of her in any pattern. My mistress desired. That was a lot of fun. Outside of that context, this is the equivalent of the embarrassment only a dominatrix can provide. But with another fucking sexual relief, I'm kidding by the way. She was more like 400 pounds. Notice I can put an object here on the chads back, and that keeps him more mindful of. I can't believe this is happening. He's putting in a object on the guy's back to demonstrate that his back is so stable and so plateau-like. What the f*** are we even doing here? I thought we were trying to lift weights so we can look like Marky Mark. None of this so far. And I mean, none of it will make you look remotely like Marky Mark. And he looks great. This is nonsense. No way. No, he just used the bear crawl as a potentialation to a 4.0-point mountain climber in the middle of a warmup. He did a warmup for the next warmup. God strike me down. Now that we finished our warmup and our body's ready to go, let's do day. Okay. Now that we finished our warmup, 10 fucking years later, maybe we'll work out. Oh God. Barbell floor press with a dead butt. This is if you want to limit the stretch on your chest and triceps, because the floor prevents you from going deep enough, thus limiting the muscle growth healed of this exercise, and also to further reduce the load from making your muscles bigger. Just strap yourself through doing some weird dead bug bullshit with your feet. Classic Hollywood nonsense. And this is actually the workout. Chad's gonna squeeze his low back to the ground before pushing the bar up. It's gonna squeeze his low back to the ground. What are we even training here? Is this just like learn how to move weirdly with a barbell hour? As he pushes the bar up, he's gonna in control drop one leg and hover the ground. This isn't even lifting weights anymore. This is like a circus act with no entertainment value. Good God. I can't tell. Is this till the warm-up or not? I can't tell. This is if you're so weak that an actual single leg already, L isn't enough, seen a band to hold your dumb ass up. Chad's gonna pull back into tension here. Pull is that big tension. He's gonna kick that left leg back, hinge at his hips, and drop towards the tension. And then he's just gonna pull and stand right back up. Okay great. So even assuming this exercise has any hyper-trophic yield, which is basically not true, he's actually leveraging in such a way that the band tension reduces as he goes down, but he's even making it worse by extending his hand forward. So at the very point that the hamstring is most likely to be growing, which is at the very bottom stretch, he is reducing the amount of load on the f***. I can't stand this shit. After those two, I always throw in a corrective exercise. Always after throwing a corrective exercise. This is just day one stuff, guys. So will farmers walk a figure eight pattern? Oh my god. Scott, do we need a guy? Is this a f***ing joke? This is a real workout? Figure eight. F***ing walks. With an unbelievably light load in the farmers carry, give you nothing at all. By the f***er, I get better training, walking my grocery to my f***ing car. Literally in every respect, it's a more complex pattern. It's more distance, and I sure a shit have more groceries than he has f***ing kettlebells. I'm just walking a figure eight pattern for about anywhere from 50 to 100 yards. This is just wasting energy. Sorry, I've been so light on the exercise science. There is no f***ing science in any of this. kettlebell deadlift. In case you're weak enough, for a kettlebell to be a good load for deadlifting. Guys, a kettlebell that weighs 150 pounds is profoundly heavy, very rarely there are the heavy. And most adult men, after several weeks of training, can do 150 pounds in the deadlift for 20 plus repetitions. Marky Mark has been training with weights. For the vast majority of his life, he should be able to pull 225 through 15 even more for reps. What the f*** is he getting out of a f***ing kettlebell? I submit to the answer is very low. We did humanilater on the lower body pull last time, so we're going to go biilateral on the lower body pull this time. That makes sense. It makes as much sense as any other string of a random f***ing word strewn together. Let me tell you guys about the RP Hypertrophy app. With over 28 preset programs already in the app, you can choose to make your own. You can modify an existing program or you can just run the programs exactly as they were written by 8 person on this app programs everything for you. Exercise is weights, sets, reps, frequency, the whole thing. After every single workout, every single week, the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now you're pretty interested in the app? Download the RP Hypertrophy app today. Half kneeling, unilateral overhead press. If you want to focus on anything other than the front delts and triceps, which are actually trying to train, you muddy the waters by making this an exercise that's also difficult to stabilize during. What are we training for? That's right. It's to make Markymark as nimble as a cat for ways doing fake guns and fake scenes of fake shootouts. Half kneeling position. When we get to a half kneeling position, we're really helping the body to understand a little bit of a different base. Getting the hips to split really helps to accentuate that posture because the core is more active. Getting the hips to split helps accentuate that posture because the core is more active. If you type in random letters and numbers as a chat and GPT prompt, you will get a more cogent string of words back than this by a f***ing long shot. Now you're into your corrective exercise. Oh, thank god. Finally corrective exercise, which by the way is a term series scientist, basically don't use because it f***ing nonsense. What we're going to do today is our power plate figure 4. If you want to, you can be on a post-suit. Of course, on a bosew, everything is better. Figure 4 pattern is a big stretch for your hip. Why is a hip stretch good? And whenever asked, and whenever answered. We've done all this work on pieces and patterns. Pieces and patterns, check, check. I have a feeling it's time for some battling ropes. Now let's play some music with the body. He really just said, now let's play some music with the body. That used to be one of my dog shit pickup lines that never got me laid. But I can't believe he's actually saying this in a training context. And you know what music looks like? It looks like f***ing battle ropes. Kill me! Now please! This is metabolic work. Of course, random exercise term generator came up. Metabolic work. Guys, every single act of physical work you do involves, you guessed it, the metabolism. There is no work that does not metabolic work. It is sheer impossibility. Because how do you move if your metabolism doesn't allow you to process the energy requirement to actually f*** move? My head! So if you're in half the end of your third book, he is grooving in that video though. Marky Mark makes everything look good. I take back all of my criticisms. The second, and you're not feeling that. Yes, that's being out of breath. By the way, Mr. Wind, you're not breathing properly. I didn't see the nose in mouth out stuff. You're going to die soon. The heart's not thumped in. Maybe you want to pick up a rope that is a little thicker. I like picking up a thick rope. I did I mean rope, not I didn't. Or a little longer. Who's thicker and longer? The black rope. Am I allowed to say that's got the video guy? F*** it will keep it in. Our favorite finisher. Oh, and you're getting pushed around. Is the sled push? Why? Number one because it's super challenging. Yes, of course. You want to put the most challenging thing at the end. When you have the least energy. Makes sense? And number two, it's super corrected in nature. Super corrective in nature. That makes a lot of sense. If we assumed that corrective is an ebulous term that has no definition. Which is actually true in this case. Okay. Uh, instead of doing the traditional rating system, I'm going to go off myself.

Bro, I literally got Alepysha from that shit. Damn. Being this young and taking random drugs, random dosy schedules is exactly as chaotic as it sounds. That. The End The End The End The End Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Anna Sounds' Periodization. I'm an exercise and sports science professor at Lehman College. And the co-creator of the RP Hiperchrophy app. The trend twins have a video on, well, drugs. Maybe try and even, definitely at a ballax, let us appraise their knowledge and see what kind of Brady score on the Dr. Mike's scale of Do You Know Things and How Well? Let's get to it. Today we're going to be talking about what it's like to walk around with the test of five men. Hey, I got the test of 10 men. I was born for a reason, the Jersey. Where are these guys from? They look sort of Italian. How from the Metro Detroit area? Maybe the Caldean? I don't know. The 10 men to army with the height of one man. Look at the width of four. Hoping on steroids, it's a lot like you get a fast car here. You know, she comes stock pretty fast. But you want to add some f***ing horsepower to that baby. This is the brahashi I'd love and I'm here for all day long. Car analogy, which you guys know I love. So if we want to mug in the gym and we want to mug on the way to the gym. Mug. Mail of the group. DRIVE from Amog. Alpha Mail of the group. Because an attitude in which you are the superlative. You are the Omega Wolf. You are in charge and you have a lot of confidence. And if you want to have a lot of confidence in the gym and for other males of your generational age to be impressed with your level of confidence and really feel your swag, I assume that sequence here is going to be be jacked and beyond tons of steroids. So you can feel like a confident person. And there are certainly other ways to getting that. This is a sure shirt. One of them. The absolute machine on the gym. The menace in the gym and menace on the road. Karen's yellow and I'm here and it's getting mad at me because I'm taking my shirt off. I'm looking like a sick bastard. That will buy. Okay. So we're in the gym now to make Caucasian women in their 40s upset. Karen's excellent. And on the road he's also a menace, which I assume he means he's encouraging danger of striving. So far the trend wins seem like just reckless guys. If I got the kind of dangerous, I kind of want to be around a lot. Not in their game, but like, you know, just kind of like, hey, Joey's like, hey, I know you. Hey, whoa. Like Greece, the whole movie. You want me to tell you, bro, if you're going to take steroids, you better have some f***ing in same patience because me and Mike, if you're not, if we just rage, I have zero patience. These guys are so f***ing honest. I love it. They're like, hey, look, you want to take f*** steroids? You need f***ing patients, which I don't f***ing have. They say they rage a lot. They're also assumed about 20 years old. That's, and, and my scale, about five years too young to be doing steroids or public service announcement. If you're in your teens or 20s and your early 20s, don't do steroids. You got a lot of national gains up the head. There's all kinds of really crazy downsides of steroids. They probably make you less intelligent over time. That's fun. And they destroy your health and they make you angry and anxious and prone to bad decision making. That's all good stuff. If the trade office were good, but up until you're about 25 years old, you can make such crazy natty gains and you're brainest on the churring. I wouldn't recommend you to steroids. That idea, but if you do have patients, which is absolutely great advice, and these guys have seemingly don't have it. What I don't have in patients, I make up for f***ing biceps. F*** out of here. Any inconvenience I'm going to the gym I'm getting upon. If you don't agree with me, like, I'm going to punch you in your face. If you don't agree with me, I'm going to punch you in your face. Yeah, that definitely how you can feel on steroids sometimes. But don't do that because there's a place for people to punch people in the face when they don't agree, it's called jail and you don't want to go jail. It's a bad time. The first thing about steroids is you have to be realistic and be self-profile. You think that you're going to just randomly spawn in muscle? That's not how the shit works at all, they're true. Steroids do works slowly. They just magnify how much gain you're getting from sleeping and eating and training. They don't magically put muscle on your body. F***ing. I love it. Thanks, guys. For a lot of us now. It takes time. That's worth it. This shit just doesn't happen over f***ing night. It sure doesn't happen over f***ing night. And also over night, two different concepts. And it's, it's steroids is like the American dream, okay? It's all fun in games until you got to pay taxes. Is that the American dream? It's all fun in games until you have to pay taxes. I think if you budget appropriately, you can see that coming. But I think he's going to say there's downsides to steroids. I hope. Let's find out. And those taxes is your f***ing nutsac, your liver, your organs. You're f***ing ass respect. That's all true. We've done our time, Nadie. Done our time. It sounds like prison. I did my f***ing time. Natural. Well, f***ing years up on Samquattin. P*** terrible. We trained actually for eight f***ing years, man. Eight years of natural training is good. But if you started when you were 11 or 12, you still should be using steroids when you're like 20. I don't know how a lot of all these guys are. I know. I have Nadie, actually. Accuades, okay. That's a good flex. Hey, hey, remember when Mikey was Nadie, some guy in the back of the gym was like, yeah, it was a total f***ing freak. That guy scared the f*** out of me. Day one time, he pulled the f***ing knife to my face. And he was like, oh f***ing Nadie, you want to stand? I was like, well, of course you are, buddy. Hey, it changes your body composition. You mod a car. You go for f***ing 500 horsepower. And then you're getting a thousand. I love it. Guys, the gains are instant. But you go from 500 horsepower to a thousand horsepower just by buying a new car. Which one of those analogies is more accurate? I'm wondering. Most of the cars stays the same. There's a few components that are f***ing changing in our bodies when you take gear. See, one thing would be your f***ing load. Yes, your hormones do change when you take extra hormones. That image isn't ever going to be the same. Even if you're PCT, you probably will not have the same normal levels as you had in worry about them. If you do PCT, there's a very high probability that you'll have the identical hormone levels before you have them. So that's actually not true. Honestly, taking steroids is kind of like cyberpunk. You know how when they're adding in all that cyberware and shit, they go into cyber-cycosis, handle the f***ing power. That's how steroids are. I'm not going to lie to you. Of course, everyone knows about cyber-cycosis. I live in that state daily. The mental side effects, they're all real. They're all got cyber-cycosis. You can, yeah, they can manage like a motherf***ing. Mental side effects are all real. Thanks, fellas, for letting us know. For real, that's, that's an important thing. You're so dedicated. I was already a hard worker. I had the f***ing grind dedication. For this shit, and then you add on all the other shit that's going to take it to the next level. It's like your hyper-focused bro. Yeah, you got the blinders. You got ton of vision. All you can see is a f***ing goal. I mean, huh, it's steroids who make things more intense in your head. I don't know if they improve your focus as much as the guys are saying. Then again, I have never been on that much of try to go to the court. I'm just saying humble. I try and recognize my goal. See, I can't even process it. Well, Mike, you're saying he's all over the f***ing place. That's not wrong. Stairheads do occasionally cause you to be alone over the place. And like he said, psychosis, mania. My ass cheek f***ing hurts. Oh, man. It's a little about the process of taking steroids. Bro, it is so f***ing scary. One, the shit that you think you're getting bro, like it's all watered down. Yeah, you don't really know where you're getting ever. For sure. Since the 70s, you should not farm a grade anymore. I mean, how much can I say here without laying my cards on on the table? You can get farm a grade gear. It's not that hard. But, uh, young fellas like themselves, they're learning some good lessons to do at bathtub shit. So I won't get them their way. It could be oil, sir. It could be a random f***ing shit in there, like. Yeah, listen, this is great advice. If you're just buying random steroids from random guy at the gym, f***ing a f***ing, you know what you're getting. For sure. The crazy part is a lot of the early beginnings of steroids. You literally have to learn about it through other people's experiences. It's like a science f***ing experience. You learn from f***ing Reddit. Yeah, got to go on a go on a lot of Reddit. Seriously, I want to hop on. You have to go through like, brother, you're going to coach. Great advice. You, if you're going to use antibiotics if they're legal in your jurisdiction, if you're over the age of 25, you've made all the right trade-offs and choices. Doing it with a coach and ideal with medical supervision is absolutely the way to go. If you just read about some stuff on Reddit, you take some pills. You got shipped from India three weeks ago. You know, it could go very well for you or it could go not very well. And I would not suggest steroids to anyone unless you want to be a, you want to take your shit to the next level. You already have your training, your f***ing diet together. Absolutely great advice. Don't use steroids until you have your training and your diet and everything. Really square it away because then for that super boost, you're in the right position to accept it. But if you're just using steroids to get to some place, you would actually successfully get to just looking like you lift. And then people are like, oh, well, you're drug free. I have so much ahead of you and you're like, well, actually, no, I'm already on steroids. Instead of putting in the effort on food, on quality training and on restroom relaxation, I put it into drugs first. That idea. Let me tell you guys about the RP Hypertrophy app. With over 28 preset programs already in the app, you can choose to make your own. You can modify an existing program or you can just run the programs exactly as they were written by eight personal. This app programs everything for you. Exercise is weights sets, reps, frequency, the whole thing. After every single workout and every single week, the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now, you're pretty interested in the app. Download the RP Hypertrophy app today. And me and Chris were f***ing young dudes. So it's Chris and Mikey. Hey Chris, hey Mikey. Whoa, we're young guys. We're 22 years old. 22 years old, two early for steroids. All right. If you watch our old videos, you think, okay, yeah, these guys look like they're 20. Now I look like I'm f***ing 25. I mean, you do, per se, bro. Oh, should we got beef? We failed in time and time again. And we're trying to get it right, bro. And we just don't want people to go through that, you know? Even on prep, we're going through failures. And, you know, it's just a learning process. Prep? Are they doing a body to lead show or a powerlifting need? It's one time I looked up the estrogen blocker I was taking. Bodybuilding show I think, a fresher blocker. It's said breast cancer treatment. That's how f***ed up this shit is guys. I'm taking breast cancer treatment. So I don't get f***ing rest. I thought I was supposed to take that shit like, you know, every day. You're supposed to take it once to twice a week. Bro, I literally got Aleppysha from that shit. Damn. Being this young and taking random drugs, random dosy schedules is exactly as chaotic as it sounds. That get a coach, folks. And these guys are great because they're saying, don't do this, get a coach. Yeah, that's okay, every day, like my hair sort of fall in love. We had a lot of hair left as far like until. Big part of why we were talking about this now is because because like we have the experience one now and I feel like it's our duty. And now we have a whole healthcare team. Damn, they have a healthcare team. TikTok's doing you good. If you guys are familiar with more plates, more dates. Course, more plates, more dates, who isn't. It's like the most humble, like, guy in the fucking internet. Is that really true? I wonder. He's literally the godfather of steroids. He's broken down every little bit about him. He's the godfather of steroids. Folks, Google Dan DeShame and about 20 other people. I'm way before that, but less digress saying, Unkind things I will continue. He has his parent company called Marrike Health and they've started sponsoring us because through this prep because we knew we were going to hop on more. Gear came to our bloodwork before we hopped on more. They literally came to the house. Well, what can I say? As far as leading by example, this is of course terrible. They're way too young to be using. They've made all the mistakes using. As far as lessons they got from it, now they're in contact with Marrike Health to take care of their health. Have a team around them doing things in a logical manner and knowing that they had done some stupid things in the past and teaching the folks about it, I largely approve. This is quite good. So I'll say this. It's I can't really rate this video. It's better that they made this video than if they hadn't. That's approval enough for me. All right. See you guys next time.

17 pounds in 22 weeks. I wonder if he's going to be any real people that have had real results on. That's what I do next, Father Charles and F. So I gave the supplements the two viewers five days ago. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Piersation, creator of the RP Hypertrophy app. The RP Diet Coach App and Professor of Exercise and Sport Science at the Lehman College in the Bronx. Hey, the Bronx. Whoa. F*** off. Hey. Anyway, that's why I speak when I'm in the Bronx. But I also speak like that when confronted with people making false claims about diet and exercise. It's right. I get quite hood. And maybe nobody has made more false claims in public and then take into a congressional hearing because of it about nutrition and exercise science in the most false way possible. And Mr. Doctor Oz. Matt, the Oz you're used to going to when the tornado spins or ass-up dumps you somewhere outside of Kansas. But the Oz of lying to people about what they can expect from pills that do nothing. Oh, I'm getting ahead of myself. Let's take a look at some of Dr. Oz's claims and see if we can make any sense out of them at all. Roll camera. You make a magic as make believe? Yes, magic is make believe. Anyone after the age of eight is either in that opinion or is deemed mentally unwell. But this little bean. A bee. Love f***ing, I mean, in-sex and shit. Bean. Bean. Thanks for got the video guy. Has scientists saying they've done a magic weight loss cure for every body type? Wow! I wonder how many scientists have actually said they found the magic weight loss cure for every body type. As a scientist, let me break this down for you. Nobody. No wait wait. I can do better. Body types aren't even a real thing. Magic isn't a real thing. And weight loss is not something to be cured, but to be treated because you're not a choir weight loss as some kind of disease that occurs from the pathogen or something like that. Finally, I'm cured of my weight loss. No, no. Access body weight is the thing you're actually trying to cure. If you were even going to architect that position intelligently, doctor, Oz, yes, I know you're in a world-winning heart surgeon in a spaceship like that, but your boy went to PhD in gym class. And I finished that shit about the critique you more. I'm already channeling. Ah, that's gone. How am I supposed to say? That duck side. I just wish I had a lightning bolt. The zap does dumb out of the f***er with you feeling me. All right. It's green coffee beans. And when turned into a supplement, this miracle pill can burn that fast. Did he say green coffee beans? Yes, he did. Okay. But apparently, the only burn fat fast if turned into a pill. And I wonder if Dr. Oz makes any money off said pill. Now, for the record, there's nothing wrong with making money. And nothing wrong with promoting your own supplements. What's wrong is, if you're lying about the effect. Now, I'm sure he's not lying. Let's look at more of these claims. For anyone who wants to lose weight, this is very exciting and it's breaking news. And breaking news. I just want to see like a little snippet of life. You create more heating up again, and this Russia counter-tacked weight. No, Bob hold on a second. We've got breaking news coming in. Dr. Oz is a f*** liar again. Thanks Amy. Let's go to that story right now. This study, 11, when they mix beakers and shit, you hold up that look like blood. Do they accidentally get footage of the vampire lab from like blade Trinity? Yeah, you don't see it? The five size height is the kind of fine too. What's up, girl? I love beakers and shit. You can, you can, you can, you can, you can, you can, you can, you can, you're blood and I'm, all right, huh? I'm f***ing, and I'm meeting up. You're looking through a microscope and f***ing coffee beans and shit. There's nothing I love more in this world than stock science footage. And remember, a scientist never ever enter the lab without a laboratory coat on. If you ever actually been to a science lab, you'll be shocked to see how much just regular people in there with regular clothes in most contexts. A huge disappointment. Me, lab coat, goggles, and generally, I like just like to wear hazmat suit the whole time. It's fine, it's cozy in there. The world's largest scientific society triggered unprecedented excitement proweight loss study. It showed women and men, you think? God, and I thought it was only half of us. Lost in a stumbling amount of fat and weight. 17 pounds in 22 weeks. Try the doctor and certified nutritionist, Lindsay, don't get us here with the findings. Folks, what do we think about men with the name, Lindsay? No, I know there are many people in the NBA with that name, but uh... I don't know what I think about it. You know, like it's 2023, all the genders are great, but uh... Oh, f***, why your name? Lindsay, get a real man's name. Bob, or Mehmet. The doctor asks us first name by the way. Solid name. So that was you love this being. Why is that? You know, I usually don't recommend weight loss, someone is. Uh-huh. There comes the qualifications, folks. Look at your screen. Natural Pathic Doctor and Certified Nutritionist. Certified Nutritionist almost certainly is a play around the term register dietitian, which he's almost certainly not. You can be a certified nutritionist with a variety of gardening bodies that don't have a whole lot of authority in the United States or any other country, and you can actually make your own nutrition certification in the most places just by announcing that you have one. Um, natural pathic doctor. Folks, that is unfortunately real thing. And without offending too many people, it's all f***ing bullshit. Because doctors select from a variety of treatment options, they don't care if it's natural or not. If something natural works to help you, doctors love it. Real doctors that is people with MD and DO after their name. MD, uh, I have an issue. And if you're a natural pathic doctor, uh, hello, but go get a real degree. I'm kidding, sort of. I'm not kidding. I'll put my phone on that one. But this one has got me really, really excited. You look so excited, Lindsey. So in the medical community, you're not in the medical community, mother f***er. Scott, this is going to take a while. The weight loss community is all buzzing about this. Mhmm. I still want it to be a B. If you add me in B, is that be like, I believe it? That's weird enough to work. And here's why the recent study that you were talking about earlier, the participants took the capsules and they did nothing else. They didn't exercise, they didn't change their diet. They actually consumed 2400 calories a day. I don't understand how that's relevant. But please continue. They burned only 400 calories. Now that's weight gain, not weight loss. Mhmm. Hot. Folks, there is no one past the size of a small child that has a resting metabolic of less than 400 calories. So it is impossible for these people to be burning less than 400 calories. There is no mathematical trickery going on here. This is at the best a wild misunderstanding of how reality works. And it worst a blatant lying. Now, there are people on the internet that claim to be able to read facial expressions and analyze whether or not people are lying consciously. I sure should hope they get their f***ing eye lasers on these motherf***ers. Because I can't tell. I'm f***ing autistic as shit. And I don't know, I'll sound like they're trying to me. But god damn, that can't be what he understands to be true. Do you know why? Because it's not true. And they lost over 10% of their total body weight. 7. How? Over 10% of their body weight. That means the average study participant would have to weigh less than 170 pounds. Hmm. Generally, people in studies of drugs or supplements that help people lose weight are considerably overweight. And these people would not be. Again, nothing's adding up. Straight. 10%. 10% they lost. But guys, again, lie detector people on the internet. Can you focus in on Dr. Osis face? He looks so interested in so compelling. And I will say his hair is just fabulous. Listen, again, as I continually insist on this channel and dwell in perpetuity, I may be in the conversation for the top 10. No, five straightest men of all time. But a little salt and pepper older man with authority, a doctor. Oh my god, little grrr. I'm beyond my knees quick. On my knees for what you ask, oh come on. This is a visit. Channel for families. I can't get into that. Blow job. If you guys like that and you want a little bit more, we have an extended, ex-rated. No, no, triple x-rated cut. And our member section, give that a click, check it out if you're interested in seeing more. And they lost about 17 pounds per participant and they had no side effects. Zero side effects. Okay, so he was wrong earlier. God, it thanks. We're just throwing make believe numbers out. By the way, zero side effects is bullshit. Every single study properly designed collects side effects data. And in every single study just through statistical noise, you'll get people reporting a certain number of side effects. People report gastrointestinal distress when there's nothing happened in tenement reality. They report headache in most cases nausea and so on and so forth. So it's actually very unbecoming to say there's no side effects. You can say minimal side effects. You can say trace side effects. No side effects. Well, that's exactly what the kind of bullshit you expect on a doctor's channel. And how long did they have to take the pills for? They did it for 12 weeks. Oh, it's okay. I'm no scientist. But earlier Scott the video guy didn't they say 22 weeks? 17 pounds in 22 weeks. I mean, I don't know, it is. You can't even keep your own story straight. Like if you're gonna lie at least like consistently. Lindsay. You had one job, Lindsay. Why would just drink can coffee do this? Yeah, because when the coffee that we drink is roasted and when they roasted, they roasted at 475 degrees Fahrenheit. That sounds like a big number that scares me. But the most important thing it does is it removes the chlorogenic acid. That's the key to what we're talking about today. You know, I don't even know what the f***er genoc acid is. Sounds made up, but it could be a real thing. It absolutely is possible with that various modifications made to food in the proper toy process, such as the heating of coffee can degrade some of the fighter chemicals and prevent them profoundly positive effects or negative effects on your body. That's totally plausible. And so with this channel going to say, sounds plausible. It's the results that we're concerned about. Does it really cause the things that he is claiming? I suspect the answer is, oh, by the way. So how does it work? Well, it's amazing. It's what we call a triple threat. Yes, that's what we typically say in science. Triple threat. It goes in and it causes the body to burn glucose or sugar and burn fat mainly in the liver. He's either phrasing this very poorly or he's just making shit up. The liver doesn't burn a lot, unless the liver metabolism goes up and typically when you're liver metabolism goes up the doctors tell you you're going to die really soon. The liver can liberate its glucose and fat stores and release them into the bloodstream. Maybe that's what he means. Never can tell. The second way in the most important way is it slows the release of sugar into the bloodstream. contradicts my earlier point. I just don't know anything. So when you don't have sugar building up in the bloodstream, you don't have fat building up because sugar turns the fat. I mean, everybody knows that. That guy's a great public speaker. He could run for office, which Dr. Oz actually tried to do recently. It reduces the amount of sugar going into your bloodstream. Somehow that's also supposed to increase the amount of sugar you burn. I know where that sugar is burning. I guess it stays in the liver and gets burned inside the liver. What does the liver do with the extra ATP? Or is it an uncopling process where extra heat is generated in the liver? You could make yourself into Fwagra. Ooh, that sounds kind of tasting. Scott, do you guys hear a moral enough to eat Fwagra? Do you like it? Do you pronounce it foys groys when you order it? Of course. My man. That's how people know your cultured. Everybody must remember that. When the two are combined together, you get this synergistic effect. You mean contradictory effect? That basically burns and blocks and stops fat. You definitely want to stop fat. I see fat like shaking at a security guard with it gun. Give me your money bank teller and then the police come in and like fat. You got to stop this. He's like, oh no, oh my god he drops his gun. That's how the body works. Now I always pride myself and having this smartest TV audience out there. Oh god that's good. Notless. If you watch Dr. Oz, look, my grandma used to watch Dr. Oz. No longer with this. Not because of Dr. Oz, but sure shit, not, you know what I'm saying? He didn't help. Politically amazing thing to say. I mean, fuck. God is he like a sociopath or something? You know what? I'm getting quite hot. Let me take my sweatshirt off. This is war. Those smartest audience. So I'm hoping some of you are skeptical about this. Oh, I love it. Foss, skepticism, encouragement. I don't, don't just believe what I say. Let's talk about real results. Real people. I wonder if he's going to be in real people that have had real results on. That's what I do next. Five of the Charleston. So I gave the supplements the two viewers five days ago. Brilliant. Brilliant. And he's given him way for free. Oh god, what a nice guy. Oh, how did they work for you? Ah, yes. The March of the Carrons begins. I believe that Dr. Oz is secret is that he draws energy from Carrons like Goku draws energy from all life to create the spirit bomb. I have to be pro and Renaissance periodization, body building coach, Jared, father, draws energy from women of Southeast Asian and Latin descent. And you know, Dr. Oz, and stay calm, Scott the video guy, Dr. Oz draws energy from Carrons. Because there are a lot of Carrons that want to lose weight, understandably. Carrons, no offense. Call me whatever you like, stare at, add a ugly man, all true. But they got this just so many of them. And so that explains why Dr. Oz is so powerful. It gave me more energy than I usually have. Is that woman in gunpoint? She looks very afraid. Tell them right now. Tell them you hate the US government. Tell them free all terrorists around the world. And that you like this green tea extract supplement. No! Okay, okay, okay, okay. It made me less hungry than I usually am in the beginning stages of trying to lose weight. And I seem to get fuller faster when I was eating. I did get a lot more energy. I didn't change my diet. Everything was the same. I was fuller and I was fuller longer. Oh my god, I was going to dig into these women. These seem like such nice ladies. Fuck, Dr. Oz stop ripping people off. They're good people. Here's the thing. I get snarky all the f*** time on the channel, especially in these reacts videos. I are all though like, we have all the same team. You know what I'm saying? We're all human beings. I got love for everybody except people like Dr. Oz who rip everyone off. These are such nice, oh my god. F***. And I was excited with my ring gold. You were. She excited. Okay, I find out. Can I store it off at 176 pounds and five days? Guys, five days means nothing in the weight loss world. I could give you a diuretic, a pill that makes you drop body water alone. You lose 15 pounds and five days no problem. It doesn't mean anything. Five days with nothing else changing. Ooh, I like that the weight loss comes from a random number generator. They're like, well, it's actually like a lottery. You lost two pounds. Oh yeah, that's not even that exciting. I thought for a second that the green bar was for how much weight she lost. Did you? And care and lost 174 pounds. Congratulations, oh god. It's good. Okay, again, five days ago, you're 255 pounds. That's a lot of care. Less than a week later, on my, has lost six pounds. That's just, we're gonna pound the day. Black men in the audience are like, boo. Am I allowed to say that? It's got the minute, guys. I'll see. The non-drug free side of bodybuilding, these people will try anything and everything in due try. Anything and everything to put into their bodies to maximize their results. And these are the leanest people in the world. Coffee extract and shit like that. It just doesn't really make the list. Truly powerful weight and fat loss drugs are actually available. They're called GLP agonists. And they're, they're getting more advanced now that they have GLP GIP combined agonists. They're in the lab working on triple agonists. We're looking on so that triple thread he was talking about. That's a real thing now in the lab. The results from these are way more impressive. They're real. It's not like one BS study that some supplement company makes it. Nobody's able to replicate. And this is the real problem in pain with this kind of stuff. People who want to lose weight, you know, it means something to them. Sometimes they even describe accurately as desperate. And they go and they get hoped from watching his stupid shows like this. And then they take the stupid green T extract or coffee bean shit that he's selling. Him and his cronies get a f***ing fat cut. So he can have a net worth of f***ing god knows to 100 million plus. And then you go and spend your hard time money on the shit. You take the pill and basically nothing happens. And that blows. That blows, selling people shit that does not work is, um, jeez a moral. I would call it a moral. F*** out, drive. What do you get when PhD sports scientists collaborate with pro body builders? The most effective muscle growth training at ever made. Get yours now. You know, most women are eating food that are absolutely wreaking havoc on their metabolism. As an exercise physiologist, I can tell you flat out. This is categorically false. There are precisely zero foods that wreak havoc on their metabolism. They just don't exist. One of the biggest setbacks to weight loss says Dr. Act. Clearly, papyrus, potatoes, what else? What else does bad things? Is eating apples, they're f***ed up. But he calls metabolism death foods. Man, you know someone's on to some right shit. When they can say metabolism death foods with a straight face. Shut down your body's fat burning potential. I've more to say in a second. I've discovered the secret to help you rev up your metabolism and turn your body into a fat burning machine. Finally, someone with secrets. I don't mean to get personal, but I wonder how far my fist could move through this man's face. Before violating the laws of classical physics and leading to Einsteinian reactions causing the destruction of an entire city block. Behind him. I'm being a bit extra. Let's go to the video. Metabolism death foods are foods that act like toxins on your body and actually put your body into a flight response. Hey, you f***ed up your can-pitch idiot. Fighter flight responses typically lead to weight loss. The fighter flight response is characterized in almost everyone by a reduction in appetite and an increase in energy expenditure. You know, that's how that works. If you shock a rat with electricity and engage all the time, weight gains not the result. Weight gain generally comes from a lot of parasipathetic activity. A lot of just sitting on a couch and being really relaxed and throwing back cheetos. God damn it. This is all backwards. Oh, and it's Josh X, DC, who DC seems to be not also a real doctor. This is Dr. X. He since moved on after his clip recording to be a doctor in his own right in Scott to video guy will get to his ass at some point in his own stupid f*** video. Physician and nutritionist. I man. You know, and one of the scary things about it is a lot of these foods are actually labeled as being health foods by idiot real doctors. When in fact, they're the very same foods that are shutting down our metabolism. The first up, rest in peace metabolism. When we got the Hello Grave stones and there's a little skull on there, so adorable. It's kind of like a Dia de los Muertos. You know what I'm saying? Like, by the way, when bitches and Dia de los Muertos get that half the half skull painting shit, you know what it's all about that. It was something ladies. Just kidding, I'm married. But Jared Feather is not. So what's your problem with it? Well, you know, the problem that I have with whole grains. I don't care. God damn it. It's my job to care. Okay, I put on my care. Well, one big one is that these are empty calories. I'm sorry. What? What? Oh. Let's do some science. Empty calories is a shitty term. It was made up a while ago and it should have never been made up. But let me explain what the best intention of the term is. Empty calories are when you have a food that has calories in it. That is, it has protein or carbohydrate or fat. But it has a very few micronutrients in it. Per an any given amount of it that you eat. So very few vitamins, minerals, fatacamicals or fiber per how many calories that food has. So something like Laffy Taffy. Eat Laffy Taffy. Laff with your friends eating Taffy. Must understand simply. And it has carbohydrate. It has calories in it. But not really any vitamins or minerals or fatacamicals or fiber. Do you guys want to know a food group that's the opposite of empty calories? Whole grains. Oh, I got a shit. I just... Ready, place of those grains. Sprouted grains and coconut flour. If I told you that sprouted grains were a subcategory of whole grains, would you be mad at me? And coconut flour? Why lie on the subject? Coconut oil, which many of these people push this healthy, turns out to be in large quantities, not so great for your cardiovascular health. This is a double rock. We know the good news is you can have your grains and eat them too. You know, when you're looking at sprouted grains or doctor's, like, that's pretty funny. Man, man. So now your body's able to absorb all of those nutrients that support metabolism. And my favorite flour is coconut flour. It is a dieter's best friend. I'm going to kill myself. That's it. That's all I had to say. We know more than ever about why you're fat the deposits where it does. So here's the question for all you. Which new body type are you? Old body types. A knowing new body types. What up, girl? Hey, Max, the editor guy. Can you take that mean where it's the guy with the girl when he's looking at the other girls asked, but it's all the new body types? What? You know what I'm saying? Now we volunteer to stop as being the sugar type. You love sugar. I do. Yes. No, it's one sugar type. Oh, she should have love handles. When you have a lot of sugar, the insulin has to deal with it. And when you make more insulin, gets what it does. Alright, hold up. She's got her got big. Isn't that the stress type? She got some love handles, no, elicit ladies. Mass, not my place to say this, but... ...little love handle. My own. Who f*** best. I'm stressed too much. Otherwise you're the stress type. See? This has to store the sugar as fat. And it then very meticulously goes to certain parts of your body. In many cases, it'll become those love handles. Yeah. So to deal with it, you have to use sugary, low-ring techniques. Yes, sugary, low-ring techniques, Dr. Oz. Tell us more. This, my friends, is a mashed banana with two eggs. Okay, mashed banana is essentially all sugar. I don't know what's happening anymore. I'm confused in the world as becoming dark. Again, there's no flower. In the good? Yes. Who would have thought? Eggs and banana look at a pancake. And with this, you won't have the problem with the insulin. The other thing you can do is... The problem with the insulin? But nanos are literally made of f*** sugar. You idiot? How is this real life? So folks, when the child bearing years are progressing, you have a lot of estrogen, but you'll have strong PMS symptoms as well. There's everything bad about women. See, I air women. Tree have PMS too, right? She's like, uh, he's like, you hate it. She's like, yeah. And here's the stupid banana sandwich for you, bitch. I do. I have a very bad PMS, like, I get tired too. I'm tired and I want to overeat and not eat these foods that sit in here. I'm not a positive thing. We're all in with your body, Karen. I'm looking to find a shit. But I could see an argument for more estrogen for this girl. Where that ass though? But she's got something. A little white girl pancake back there. But more estrogen, not less. Yeah, no, they don't. Why would I put these foods here? These are vegetables, right? But that not just any vegetables. No, no, they're specific vegetables. What? Here's the big story. What you want to deal with the estrogen? You actually have to deal with the food jewelry, because they can help block the estrogen blockers. Use in the treatment of breast cancer that come with a variety of downsides. You see, estrogen is good for building strength, good for building muscle. It is excellent for maintaining a good mood day to day. It is vital for proper psychosexual function, and it helps your bones grow. And lastly, and very importantly, is cardio-protective. It actually increases the probability that your heart will continue to be healthy for years to come. Astrogen is good for you in almost every way. Astrogen blockers are taken in two circumstances. One, in the medical world, one, there's a tumor on your f***ed titties that is eating up estrogen and feeling in self-worth it. You got estrogen block to kill off that motherf***er. And two, if you're a bodybuilder, and you're using estrogen blockers in the last maybe week or so before your show to get the extra drying effect, it is not good for your health. It is profoundly bad for your health. The last thing in the world you want to do is block estrogen. Luckily, cruciferous vegetables do almost nothing to block estrogen. So the following will be a lie. Thank God. Look, I'm back here. You know, and the... Oh my God. Is this a... is this pre-arepost me too? What the f***? He can like grab people and like, hey man, take my hands, you know? Yeah. Broad died plans that were off-right. Like the day off died as an example. What I love... Scott, once the last time you were guest out of game show and the host was holding your hand while talking you through a list of non-starred Chee vegetables. F***. Because you can eat as much of this stuff as you want. All these great things, these progress is the bad bushes. There's no need to hold her hand anymore. Look at her face. Max, zoom in on her face. She's like, get the f*** off of me, God damn it. These are the cruciferous vegetables. And they very specifically seem to help us deal with estrogen levels. That was a lie, by the way. Just for those of you still tuned in. Whatever it is that you do in your life can be entirely selfish and help nobody else. It can be super selfless and help everyone but you. Amazing. Both types of people are awesome for society. Then there is another type of person who does things to benefit themselves at the expense of everybody else. Those are not good people. We should have a general degree of compassion and love for all living beings. And for them, we need to go, you get the compassion and love. What you're doing is a bad idea. You should probably stop. Doctors, all the f***er, you're in that third category. And if I ever see you in the street, I'll probably just look at your hair and go, wow, he's so beautiful. But there's an off chance, things could get quite confrontational, verbally of course. I don't want to issue physical threats as I believe that's illegal. But if we didn't have any laws, ooh, it's sort of f***ing good. Scott, you made a guy cute up more bullshit doctors for us to have this rate. I'm officially upset. I've been Dr. Mike, I rate Dr. Oz as an asshole out of 10C guys next time. Yes, you're not right there. I've got a quick YouTube thing she liked it and we think YouTube's usually correct about stuff.

With X2's muscle integration system, you won't just train muscle. Hey, hey, hey, hey, you'll train, you don't even need. Or you don't even have! You'll train movements. All muscle groups, big and small, are linked together in what sports scientists call the kinetic chain. Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah. Those are tacitly sports scientists. That's what you call it, right? No! F***! Yo! Does yo make me sound hip or cool like young people? Well, I'll have you know, I'm a young person at heart. Or so my parole officer tells me, and not the nicest ways, but another thing that I have is a former professorship of exercise science. A black belt in Brazilian Gigiitsu, a participant award for bodybuilding, and a happy smile for you today, because I'm Dr. Mike, and we are here to review with X, burnt insight through X-Sci science knowledge. One of the most iconic programs ever made, it has several letters and numbers in it, because it was designed in a secret bioweapons lab. B-we-we-we-we-we-not my lasers aren't bioweapons. But, s***, ah, ah, ah, ah. There you go. That's a bioweapon P90 X, which stands for penis. That's nine inches long. I got zero time for hose, and I got a lot of X's. Scott, do you ever want to hit play on your future of your fit life? I do know already, I have my stars, drop music. Well, little futuristic lens flare. I'm in. I want whatever this is. From the makers of P90 X. It comes the most advanced home fitness program ever designed. But seems like a circuitous way for the arrow to go. Scott, where is it going exactly? It looks like this when you're going. Oh shit. My man. My man. Lat-tallum baby. Tell him. Doing routines unlike anything you've experienced at your local gym. I mean, I've experienced all of this in my local gym. Ah, Scott, are they lifting both of those? Yeah, yeah, yeah. We need to, so this kind of goes by quick. We'll need to do some at this part some fast exercise analysis. Yeah, okay, great. So, um, the boasts of all you'll be surprised to know is almost nothing. So the effect you get from lifting it is almost nothing. Tonight, two, set 11. Thanks, plain why, my tongue don't get too far ahead. You might prove you wrong. I'm going to eat my own shit if he proves me wrong. And I'll do it right here in front of all of you. That's a company promise. That's because with X2's muscle integration system, you won't just train muscle. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You'll train shit, you don't even need. Or shit, you don't even have. Is your guss-or-cobloric trained enough? Probably not. This exercise will do it. You'll train movements. And here's why. Dynamic movement happens because all muscle groups, big and small, are linked together in what sports scientists call the kinetic change. Those are testically sports scientists. No! A kinetic chain is only ever described in functional terms. Okay? So there's like the posterior chain, which can allow you to link up all of your muscles that allow you to uncurl your body. There's the anterior chain, which is what you use when you throw a medicine ball with your whole body. There's when you do a triple extension, which is when you jump, and you extend it your knees, your hips, and your ankles at the same time. That's a kinetic chain. It links multiple things together to do something. But all of your muscles working while you're running is not a kinetic chain. There's just a bunch of arrows pointed at as like, you know, whatever those muscles are. Abs and then also abs and then his finger and then the football. I guess. See even that guy to the right is like sick of the shit. See it? He's like, oh god, damn it. That one include me in this shit. The fitness machines in your gym focus on isolating specific muscle groups. I like that they isolated the shoulder by doing a press, which involves your front delts, some of your side delts, your triceps, all of the muscles of your form, and your traps. Oh, and upper chest too. What a trip. Just to build strength. We know now that this old... Scott, they just used a wide-grip press for tries. Yeah, I mean they don't. They don't really know what an isolation. Doops. School method and a leg press for quads. Not that it trains the glutes and hamstrings and adductors, and I'm done. Look, yes, there is a good valid critiques somewhere here, and that valid critique is that real world functional movements are more than just one muscle at a time. However, if you use compound movements even with machines, presses and pulls, which we just saw examples of, all sorts of movements where you press your legs away, like for your quads and the rest of your leg by the way, then you get all of those benefits of isolating muscles, or focusing on muscles rather, to get them really big and strong in a way that P90X probably can't get you because the way it's your two-light, Link, Link. But you also get that functionality from two things. One, you are using a bunch of muscles at the same time, so you get plenty of function at the gym and two. When you go out and do real world sports, your body now has bigger stronger muscles. Where you learn to use them in an integrated fashion. That's why most of the best sports science now says that when you are trying to be the best athlete, you can be, you do hardcore lifting, not a ton of it, but enough to get nice and big and strong, in a very simple ways, compound movements for sets of five to ten. And then you don't do a whole lot of weird transitional work and make it all the lifting, look like all the exercise that you do, or all the sport moves. You go into sport practice and you just do normal sport practice. Now you have bigger stronger muscles, your body learns how to use them. When you're child and you first learn how to play soccer, your body is not used to moving at all. It doesn't know what the hell is going on. It's never played soccer. It takes your big strong muscles that you have when you're at your sold, teaches you how to play soccer. Every time you level up those muscles, it's just an integrated part of sport training. It occurs with normal sport practice that your ability to move is going to integrate those new bigger stronger muscles and you're going to take that body and make it better. It does not have to be a special integration phase. And some very specific sport context, this is a thing. P90X is not a sport and there's no very specific sport context. God damn it. Scott, you're right. This piss me off. We're going to get warmed up. Oh, God damn it. We know now that this old school method of training is a big mistake. Big mistake. Are you the kind of king idiot that lifts weights with machines? Are you dumb or just the letter G word? We're not allowed to say it's not the nice thing in the political climate. You're all of those things because you're bad. Because P90X is going to f**k your wife. The RP Hi-Protrophy app comes with dozens of pre-made programs for no additional chart. You get them all and can use them as often as you like. Even building off of them to make your own customized versions for only about a dollar a day. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. It's a good app. I just had I've ever set off hand. By training primary muscles in isolation, you prevent other connected muscles from engaging. Over time, this creates an imbalance along the kinetic chain. Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha. Guys, unless you have parts of your body that are clinically weak, like they're weaker than they're supposed to be for an adult human, imbalances are pretty much king total bullshit. Boxers. Bench press specialists. Tenest players. Train the strength power of their upper bodies much more than the lower bodies. Are they dying? Do they have a problem with their kinetic chain? No. Gymnists. Scott, I might add. I pretty much all upper body is the teeny little legs. And they're the healthiest, most kinetically linked people on the planet, because they actually practice linking their kinetic chains with incredible acrobatic moves. You are not going to destabilize yourself or hurt yourself by doing normal gym machines. Either way, what they haven't really filled in is we see the trapezius, the rhomboid, the deltoid there. If you just do a set of rows right after presses, you'd unchecked all of them shit, so there's no reason for those ships to receive. You can bring them right back. And believe it or not, by doing a whole body program in the gym, which over a week you hit most of your muscles, all of them stay and are white and are nice and point to your stuff. God damn it, you guys. Which not only limits your strength gains. How could it limit your strength gains? You're literally strength training. You know what limits your strength gains? Using 20 pound dumbbells when you could be benching the staff like my man over here. By the way, that guy doesn't like, Scott, is he having a good time or look at his face? I'm going to use... You're limiting his strength. You, of course, he's having a bad time. He knows he's doing dumb shit. It also increases your likelihood of injury. Was that an injury? Ow! I got to four, all right, all right. Using a stability ball, a medicine ball, or even standing on one leg. You guys, this is just circus nonsense. Circus nonsense. Wait, Scott, whatever all those blue muscle groups do you over in the corner, they're not going to consolidate onto him, are they? Your body is forced to... Oh, my God! I guess it's true to say your body is forced to use everything, including your illi-optimial tract. Jesus Christ! Scott, they just laminated a fucking textbook, and they're like, I just throw that in there, I don't know what the fuck it is. Listen, I've been doing this fitness thing with you for quite a while. I've never heard that term until right now. I love it. By the way, at the bottom, pedantry mode fully engaged, they mislabeled his gastroccane solace. They should be flipped. Uh... Who's counting? True every muscle along the kinetic chain, which wipes out imbalances. Hey, here's an imbalance. Lunge all the way down to the ground, you bitch mother. Oh, oh. All f... And love and respect folks, all jokes. But seriously. Look, here's the thing. This thing is thing. P90X is an excellent system. If you have a pair of dumbbells on a boastsuball at home, and a television screen with a digital video disc player, or a streaming service, if these are awesome workouts, that can really help you get in shape. If you're time-constrained, if you don't want to go to the gym, if you're just a bit shy, if you're just starting out in fitness, P90X is good, and it's... It's... It's a... What's a claim that... Sky, here's my problem, right? Say your system is good. You don't have to shit on everything else. And if you're gonna be right about it, you know what I'm saying? Like, Good God, and also for the record, with the f... Because the warrior 3 Lunge. And results in greater strength, stability, and stamina. Stamina, you're... I like this is stamina. You're lying down, which is real hard, and you're pressing one dumbbell up. By the way, why is this pissing you off? Lying down destabilizes you, and minimizes total muscle recruitment, which means you're just not gonna be able to get as strong as you could, or as jackages you could. And pressing off of one arm, even more stable, destabilizes you, and then all of a sudden, you're getting like a fraction out of this exercise where you could have done, if you just got into a pressing machine, and you're really... You're really f...king tried hard, or dumbbells, or bench, or even pushups. This is like tier 8, whatever below E tier list of King Chastor, Tri-Suppet exercises. Ah, but see Scott, I made him a steak. We're not trying to train the Chaston Tri-Sups. We're training the whole kinetic chain. And if we can find it, wherever that f...king chain is. I was watching how some of these pro athletes train, the constant use of unstable surfaces. The combining of balance with resistance moves, and I was just amazed by how efficient this kind of training is. Uh... My whole body, Scott, I'm getting sick. The reason people have athletes doing this is because I'm sorry, forgive me. Most of those people are not sufficiently educated in sports, I am to know that they're doing dumb shit and doing it. King Raw. The athletes love to do it, because they really just like to practice and play their sport more play than practice in many cases. And they're like, hey, free 30 minutes from my trainer to wrap about my kinetic chain or some shit, while I just literally relax on a combustible. Athletes love it because it's easy. People who should know more things love it because they think they know science and they don't go back to school. That's why pro athletes really do shit like that. It's not because it's effective. And pro athletes get their physics from a combination of genetics and literally decades of sport participation. It's not the most who balls that got them into this kind of shape. Also, athletes do not have a balanced deficit. Jamal is six foot four, I've been playing basketball since he was five years old, and he's now in the NBA. He is one of the most athletic coordinated machines you could ever see in your life. He does not need to balance on a boastable to improve his sports specific or general balance for that matter. Do you know who does, Grandma, rehabbing or broken, King Leg? For her, an unstable surface might actually be a really good idea. Because it's easy, it's permissive, and it actually works in restores. Huge deficits and balance when you get hit by eight semi-tracks at the same time. That's right, Scott. Eight semi-tracks hit Grandma, and the only thing that happened to her is she broke her leg. She's a tough old bag. Tough old bag. Ah, sonny, I've been through the 20s. Eight semi-tracks ain't shit. You should have seen my first adult film, the grandma. Holy crap. Trying to keep stuck out with me. We mixed it up, baby. Drop that clipboard, run into a ball. God damn it. You can see the foot behind the other one. We're working the ad, Dr. That's that muscle in here driving the heel nice and high. That's true. Scott, how close to failure do you think she's going to get? I mean, she's going to push it to the brake. I'm sure. I'm sure. Big range of motion. Good to have hit me in the face. Oh, wow, it was close. That was that nice, great. Getting that mobility in the hip. If you want to run fast, what? Guys, there's no gravity pointing in that direction. It's going to be a good soccer player, a good baseball player. If you don't want to pull your hamstring when you run the first base, play in softball. This is the one for you. No, it's not because there's no force being generated by your hamstring. Other than the few grams of force that it takes to move it back against not gravity. If you bent down and touched your toes and came back up, you would get 10 times the force you're experiencing. But it is much more fun if other men are touching you while you're training. That's fine. But engaged, core engaged, hand is up, face is calm. Just... Is the calm face important, Scott? Am I missing something if I'm freaky out while I'm doing this? I guess so. It's like that. Very nice. Now Malachi is going to love this adjustment. Oh, thank you, Tony. Thank you. Thank you. I couldn't have turned my own king lag. What if it even changed? Look how tight this boy is. He needs to work on this exercise to end one. I thought I heard something snap. Okay. Okay. Hey, we're filming. Shout-up about it. Folks, there is still more video to come. But if you want extra bonus content, you'll long gated and very unrated versions of this video. And many other other ones. Vlogs for training. You can find it all in the members area, which costs a lot of money. But gives you massive, massive value. Click around. Click on things. Love you. Mean it. Let's get back to the video. Four ordinary people that drive the latest version. People try P90X for the first time. Life change. Okay, this is so good. What? They lights up for the time. Oh, shit. Let's go to the air. But don't do it, man. My chair is on fire. I'm not sure if I can do it. I'm not sure if I can do it. No. Wow. This is so good. I'm scared of this. I'm scared of this. I'm scared of this. I'm scared of this. I'm scared of this. I'm scared of this. I wonder if she signed a waiver for the shoot. As a lawsuit we need to happen. You guys, real talk. The pull-up bars that go into doors. Make sure you really test the shit out of yours. And honestly, I don't know, man. I've seen too many of these for that to be an accident. 90 days is too long. So after 90 days, I lost a pound. Oh, good news. Whatever tests they're using is not precise enough to detect a pound. However, if she lost more like 10 pounds, you would be able to detect it. This is probably a result of no dietary control. Remember, you can work out as hard as you like, but if you don't constrain your eating to some extent using the RP die coach, maybe even, then the results aren't going to be that great. So I lost .2 pounds of body fat. My man. This is great. It was not due to if I was a P90X, people I'd be like, can we sue these people? Guess you can't. And I lost .8. It looks like five muscle mass. That sucks. Do we have reason to believe they actually did the plan? I mean, it buzz feeds not exactly a tier one institution. I mean, it seems as legit as it could be. Yeah. Checkups with the training every day. Yeah. I mean, I assume they did like some kind of BIA test, electric impedance test, or maybe an edaxa. All of these are within margin of error. So not a very fair test. But after three months, like if you gained a decent amount of muscle and lost decent amount of fat, you should see something. So we can at least say like, you know, not a lot happened in 90 days. Oh, okay. So I gained two pounds of muscle and I also gained two pounds of fat. It looks like it says that I gained three pounds of body fat. And I gained points seven pounds of muscle. Good enough for me. Surf air. I'm going to Sacramento today. I'm going to the capital. What the f*** is going on? I'm going to lobby the government to be making 90x rule of law. California, I'm going to fly to Mammoth on the ripsome power and mammoth. That would be awesome. That maybe a flight to San Diego. You guys go to San Diego. Is this guy just flexing his money in front of all of his paid actors? You guys ever fly to like three places in one day? They're like, no, I don't have a fucking private plane to think. I do. I'm going to rip some power before the shoots start. Um, cocaine's a hell of a drug. Nice. I suggest breathing a lot. That matters a lot. Oh, why the way here's your modification. I'm only going to touch my shin. Tony, I have my shin toucher. Not a floor, toucher. We're on the block. Okay, see if you can't bend all the way down. You get to touch nice and adaptive. I like that. Just on the floor. Come on, baby. Nice. So if you ask him like, what is the purpose of this pretend surfboard stuff? Why don't you just keep doing pushups? I wonder when I answer you would get. I suspect just cocaine. Out to the size. Trying to hit that hand out there. Good. Watch the arm. See the arm is half to move with the legs. I threw it off. Did I need? I got it. I got that. I got that. I got that. I got that. I got that. Listen, you can critique him about a lot of stuff. Energy, he brings to the. And equation. Days are. We're happy and fun. And we got to the test group guys. They're really. Get them up. Get them up. Get them up. Get them up. Listen. P90X. If you're just starting out. If you want a little taste of fitness in the comfort of your own home is an excellent system that I highly recommend it. If you want the most effective and the most efficient way to transform your body. To have a little bit more muscle and a lot less fat improve your health longevity quality of life. Resistance training. Barbells, dumbbells, free weights, machines, bodyweight exercises, compound movements, isolation movements, traditional strength training, traditional resistance training. Close to failure. Multiple sets getting nice and sore. Nice and tired coming back a few days later and hitting again. Is the way to do that. The jumping, the kinetic chain, the plyos. Unfortunately, don't do shit. I rate P90X as a P out of 90X. And I'll see you guys next time. Alright folks, that was really, really fun. Was it no? Maybe this video will be more fun. Look on it and I'll see you next time. Damn dude. I didn't realize that. I'm P90X.

Stop doing regular steady state cardio. Be Shred is a fucking super-hearies here to save us from the shit because we know steady state cardio is bad because... Just stop doing it. Just stop doing it. That's the reason enough for me Mr. Be Shred. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Anacense Predization on the creator of the RPI Perchryfy app and a professor of exercise at Sports Science, Lehman College in the Bronx, in New York City, in the state of New York, in the country of the United States, on the North American continent, in the Western Hemisphere, on the planet Earth, in the solar system, in a very, very important thing to do with you guys today. It's going to be an activity in which we cooperate together. It is to critique and examine and parse and explain the V-Shred workout diet, whatever advice V-Shred is giving out. Now, for the purpose of this video, I'm going to assume that there is one individual whose name is V-Shred. And that's what I'm going to call him. Mr. Be Shred. Sure, he has a real name. I don't care about it. Off to the races. Which body type are you? I have an answer to that. There is no such thing as body type and science has confirmed that about 10,000 times body types or myth. So I'm not a body type, but let's see what Mr. Be Shred thinks about that. You're not allowed to play these games? Yes. Yes. Also, yes. People are making all these different fitness programs. People like UV Shred. But they're not talking about the most important piece. Lying to people about results that they're going to get on your programs? Oh, sorry, I digress. Which is making sure that the program actually fits your body type and actually fits your goals. Tell me you didn't go to school without telling me you didn't go to school. That's here about body types. If you're trying to lose weight, the last thing you need is to follow my workout plan where I'm trying to bulk up. Okay. The workout plan doesn't have a ton to do with whether you lose your game weight. That's actually almost entirely dictated by your diet and an energy expenditure. If you're very physically active and you don't eat a lot, it doesn't matter how you train you're going to lose weight. And if you're training hard, you're going to keep all your muscle and lean down. If you eat lots of food and your physical activities more limited, you're going to be gaining weight and if you train the exact same weight, just like he does, then you will gain muscle and gain weight. So really the workout specific to your goals is already overstated. If you're trying to bulk up, the last thing you need to do is follow some weight loss plan. That's not going to work for you and your body types. So I don't think your body type changes when you pick a different goal. Maybe there's a contradiction in terms here somewhere. I'm sure if we get to how the f*** body type has anything to do with anything. But so far, I just talked about goals. Not body types. I get not doing a plan that's different for your goals, which also isn't true in this case. But how does body type lead in there at all? What we did to combat this. Well, f***er, who is weest? You in a f*** cell phone camera. Was we over here at V-shred created? Which is your name is V-shred. Your first name is V-shred. This V-shred. First name, last name. A free body type quiz. Oh, thank God. I thought I was going to have to pay my own harder money to take a body type quiz. Luckily it's free. That takes into account what shape you're in. What shape you're in has nothing to do with your body type? The body type is supposed to be something that is immutable about. It is a way that you are shaped that muscle and fatter added into that equation. It's attracted from it. But I don't know where he means by body type. And I guarantee you he doesn't either. What your exact goals are in your body measurements. Okay, that's not a body type quiz. That's a body type goals and measurements quiz. And it basically gives you three free tips based on your body type. E last, that f***. E more protein while eating less and lift some weights. You're welcome. I saved you the quiz. And then also has a little hidden surprise at the end of it. So. Oh, f***. Wait, wait, wait, wait. If there's a hidden surprise, you're not going to stop me from being able to click on an R-U. I'm going to click on it. And I'm going to do whatever it takes in that surprise. If it's that entering the top of the funnel for your bullshit, Ponsi Fitness Scheme Count Me in. If you're looking to get in shape, understand if you're an extomorb, a mesomorph or an into morph. Yep, those aren't real things. Those are all mythical. We do have a YouTube video at RampSons predization about how to why. Scott's a video guy. Link that shit. It's up if you're not sure which one you are head over to vshred.com vshred.com. Take our free quiz on our homepage. Free quiz on homepage. And I'll see you there. He won't see you there, but you'll be in his final and he'll try to extract money from you providing you substandard services that probably lead to disappointing results. What's up guys? What's up, ishred? I got a quick tip for anybody who is trying to get in shape. Not anyone who is trying to get in shape. Because according to the last thing you said, general tips don't work. You have to take the body type quiz. If I'm of the wrong body type or kind of goal, then no tip is going to be good for me. That's also good for you. Now you're saying there's one universal tip that's good for us all. Well, this is just confusing. Stop doing regular steady state cardio. I mean, guys, everyone knows regular steady state cardio is like starvation in Africa. The massacre in Myanmar right between a steady state cardio and the here devilishness that exerts on our poor, f***ing unsuspecting world. vshred is a f***ing super here. He's here to save us from the shit because we know steady state cardio is bad because just stopped doing it. Just stopped doing it. That's reason enough for me mr. vshred. Because why? You asked why? vshred's going to cook you up some f***ing knowledge. Because it's not good for you. Okay. steady state cardio is not good for you. says vshred. Counter-apingian American College of Sports Medicine. All the doctors that study the heart and the lungs. Every doctor that is concerned with health, every professor of exercise and sports science. But there is only one vshred. Let's hear some facts facts. Why isn't it good for you? Because first off it takes like 40 minutes a day. Whatever. He doesn't even know because he doesn't even do it. He's got to know how long he will f*** do it. 40 sounds like a fine number. And I don't have 40 minutes because I hear him f***ing that f***ing cheddar. I got 18 businesses, five side hustles. Can be bought up with a shit. Just to get a cardio session in and you burn what? 300 calories. You could burn more than 300. But yes, burning calories takes time. But maybe he has some good retort here. So if you have to do that every single day and you all see you don't burn calories after you stop. So you continue to burn calories after you stop. But not a ton, so we're just trying to give him as much credit as possible. 300 calories for 40 minutes of horrible exercise. If you're burning 300 calories in 40 minutes, it's actually not that horrible. That's not impressive. It's not fun. So you don't stick to it very long. The verse is doing hit cardio. Okay. So hit cardio, he's going to sell us on the hit cardio bullshit. This is a training fad from about 15 or 20 years ago. Everyone thought it was going to be miraculously better than steady state cardio and they were wrong. Why were they wrong? What he's going to do is estimate later that hit cardio burns a ton of calories after it's finished. And the reality is you don't burn very many after it's finished. So the epoch excess post exercise oxygen consumption was always over-estimated with hit cardio from the very beginning. More, well, more recently 10 years ago we found out it was vastly over-estimated. Making hit cardio not as cool as people thought it was going to be. In addition to that hit cardio is even less sustainable in steady state cardio at a lower level of exertion because it has more impact than it causes more fatigue. So hit cardio is something that people who don't have a lot of time and or are lazy attempt to do instead of steady state cardio in generally fail almost as much if not more than what steady state cardio. Now hit cardio does have a place. It can be part of an integrated program. But so can steady state cardio. It's not one or the other. Hit cardio is not categorically better because yes it doesn't take as long but it also doesn't burn as many calories and know the epoch does not make up for that. And it also beats you up more. So it's more fatigue. I wonder if he mentions anything. This is when you do like 20 seconds max intensity then a 20 second rest and you do that like 10 times. So the work that's only like five minutes and you burn more calories during the workout and after the workout. I guarantee you don't. If you're doing steady state cardio and it's not the easiest thing in the world you can burn many more calories in a 40 minute session of stay state cardio that you could do anything for five minutes long. This is straight up false due to excess post oxygen consumption. Weird. Can this be so science? My name. 20 years out of date. Something that I don't have time to explain here but don't worry. He doesn't know how to explain this. We want more free tips like this. Head over to V-Shred. Funnel. This guy's a f***ing marketing master. So you get thinking you know some shit you're in the funnel and they're offering you f***ing up cells. I got to learn from him. What are we doing at RP? I don't really like funnels like let me tell you guys about the RP high purtrophy app. With over 28 preset programs already in the app you can choose to make your own. You can modify an existing program or you can just run the programs exactly as they were written by 8 personal. This app programs everything for you. Exercises weights sets reps frequency the whole thing. After every single workout in every single week the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now you're pretty interested in the app. Download the RP high purtrophy app today. See we all funnel too. Don't you like don't you want to click on our funnel? Weeeeee! Like sky what was at one bitch with the Emerald Castle and the tornadoes? Uh... Dorothy. Wizard of Oz not our f***ing funnel. All your money comes out during that time. We collect all of them. That's how funnels work I think. If you feel like you can't make much progress in the gym. Yes or you're holding on to too much body fat. Definitely. Or your sex drive is lower than ever. My psychiatrist says it's actually too high and it's a problem. But uh... curious. Robmeon. Or you frequently just seem down in the dumps and... Just in life man. It's like... Just a blot. Help me V-Shread. Help me find happiness. Feel like you're aging faster than you should be. I don't know how people estimate how fast they should be aging. But uh... Definitely I'm aging at all. Which is to say too fast. V-Shread. I mean your help. Today I want to talk a little bit about a hormone that your body might be low on. It's not testosterone is it? Which is testosterone. How do I know that? And one thing that's important to understand is that it's normal for testosterone levels to decline as you age. So far so good. Low test levels are something that you should be aware of. Even in let's say your 20s and your 30s. Now the good news is... Good news. There are easy things that you can do from home. I certainly wouldn't be compelled to drive anywhere to improve my testosterone. Now I need it to be at home in I need high test levels. Ideally right now that don't require going to the doctor to slow or maybe even reverse the decline. Yeah. The doctor is only going to give you prescriptions for exogenous testosterone. Which will definitely fix your ass up. Then you got a shoot drug all the time. You're a f***ing f***ing f***ing. Maybe the shred can spare us all that nonsense and get us the real testosterone boosting secrets that we've come here for. In fact, down there a choir, a trip to your local grocery store. The shred. You just promised us we could do this from home. Now you're saying this testosterone cure requires a trip to the local grocery store. Which is not in my home. grocery store? No, that's not going to work. And I'm going to tell you about a couple of natural herbs. Okay, I'll start with the actual science. There is no natural herb that dependably raises your testosterone in a measurable way that has been confirmed, multiply through a plethora of studies. Not phenogenic or phenogenic Greek or whatever the f***ing. Not any of that other weird sounding shit, not triveless, not shit. Sorry, herbs don't do pretty much shit in almost any situation. There are no natural herbs to raise your testosterone levels. But I'm sure he's going to give us the typical bullshit. They're super powerful. They are not super powerful. So you absolutely need to know about them, but there are also a couple of others that are easy to find that you probably have in your fridge or your pantry. I already have steroids in my fridge in pantry. Wow, that just may not be as potent but good nonetheless. I'll just take more of them, same potency. One area that researchers have studied is how your diet can impact testosterone levels. Diet's not in an herb, but cool. And they found that increasing foods that contain testosterone mimicking nutrients and supplementing with certain natural herbs may help. He's not good at reading off the f***ing cards. This does not sound very fluid. But he's doing it, I'm in. And there's two nutrients that seem to be especially crucial to your diet. Let me guess cholesterol and saturated fat. When it comes to increasing testosterone and those are vitamin D. Oh, I was wrong, vitamin D. Okay, excellent. And zinc. And zinc. I know nothing. Starting with vitamin D, according to researchers, it can help boost testosterone levels by up to 90 percent in one study. Yep, this is what we call cherry picking. Most of you, if you take all of vitamin D in the world, we'll see no increase in testosterone whatsoever. But every now and again, people who are vitamin D deficient, see improvements in all sorts of hormones when they in a longer-become deficient. But you're probably not deficient. 200 healthy participants were given either a daily dose of 3,000, 300 and 32 I use vitamin D or a placebo for a full year. Cherry picking. Just one study at a time because we're much as studies that found didly deck for this. He's not reporting them. And compared to baseline values, there was a significant increase in total testosterone levels, bioactive testosterone and free testosterone levels in the vitamin D supplemented group. And once study, they actually restricted zinc and young healthy men. Don't do that. Eat normal foods that have zinc in them. Found that after 20 weeks of losing, test subjects saw a significant drop in serum testosterone levels. And oysters are a great source of zinc. But f***. They just randomly like throws a food at us. Like oysters. You don't like oysters. You can also get a good dose of zinc from crab. Damn, this is the f*** an expensive diet. Oysters, crab, what's next lobster? According to National Institutes of Health, a Laskin King crab provides 43% of your daily value of zinc. You don't have f***ing expensive, Laskin crab is Jesus Christ. Kind of advices this. And if you don't enjoy eating seafood at all, or you're worried about mercury levels, egg yolks contain a good dose of vitamin D and beef. Ah yes, finally common foods. You probably eat anyway. How do I say you guys this? Almost all information, which tells you one micro nutrient. One potential beneficial thing it does in a few studies. And then good sources for it is just a waste of your cognitive bandwidth. There are a trillion different micro nutrients, if you include phytochemicals, phytointrancy. They're all available in every food. There's too much diversity to account for. And if you just eat a whole food diet of mostly healthy foods, lots of veggies, fruits, all grains, lean meats, and every now and again you eat some junk food. And you have a multivitamin multibinol tab. You are going to cover everything, all the mechanisms, all the weird stuff. So this one should in a time bullshit, again you're not going to be in a position rug. Oh man, you get f***ing warning. Better eat. Three ounces of crab. You will be sorely f***ed disappointed. So eating some whole eggs instead of egg whites in the morning, or even adding a burger to your diet can actually help you a ton. Adding a burger to your diet will not help you a ton. All right, if you guys like that, we have an extended cut available for members only so hit the join button to become a member. Another food that can actually help to improve serum levels up to Stasron is one that most of you will be glad is on the list that you have a sweet tooth. And that is honey. Oh, thank God. I knew any diet in which I was going to be restricted in my honey and take one that never works for me. Luckily, honey helps with stuff in nutrients and thank God that it does. I'm going to eat tons of it. Researchers have tested honey in both human and rodent trials and they found that honey did, in fact, increase serum test levels likely because it helps increase. Guys, these are incredibly transient low level effects that amount to nothing. Nobody ever got jacked eating extra f***ing honey. See that guy with the veins in his f***ing shoulders and he weighs 350, that ain't honey. That's called trend blown. Loot-nizing hormone, which is a hormone produced by the Petuitary gland. I like when he tries to speak science, he's a two-a-tary gland. I think. So food number three on our list is garlic. This is the worst video ever. Garlic has a connection with another hormone, which is your stress hormone, which is cortisol, which is super important because cortisol is produced in the adrenal gland. That's an important feature, which is where testosterone is produced. testosterone is produced mostly in your testies, and not in your adrenal gland. Basic science fact wrong. Thanks, V-sred. How shock? Scientists have found that if your cortisol levels are too high, which could happen due to anything from lack of sleep, to mental stress. Yeah, don't fix lack of sleep with mental stress, just eat more garlic. You could be blocking your body's ability to produce testosterone. That's true. Let's find out how garlic helps. So if your cortisol is too high, it won't matter how many oysters you eat or how much honey you put in your tea, your tests could be negatively impact. It actually would matter because if your cortisol is high, but your razor test, the balance is what matters. So wrongly and V-sred. And that's why it's so important that in addition to eating foods that could potentially boost the test, you should also eat foods or take supplements that reduce cortisol. Why don't we still hear it? Just suffer. There are no foods or supplements other than advanced pharmacological drugs that reduce cortisol. You also don't want cortisol reduced all the time, because cortisol is a very important part of the stress pathways that actually cause adaptation. So what you want is for cortisol to be very high during your workouts, rapidly fall off after it'd be low most of the time throughout the day. Don't eat garlic before your workout, I guess. Garlic has been linked to being able to do just that. Be sure to, for audacity and false confidence in 11 out of 10. For good advice, somewhere peppered in there, six out of 10. For tons of bullshit that you wish you had never heard, lower my IQ and now I feel sick to my stomach. 10 out of 10 out of that stuff. Why the fuck doing this for living? See you guys next time.

Guys, you will get more hypertrophy if you do the cat noise at the top if you don't, this movement is pointless. And if they come up and try to inquire us to what is a miss you go- Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Predensation. I'm an exercise on sports science professor at Lehman College and the creator of the RPI hypertrophy app and I'm going to be appraising Oden Beef Hatties training videos to see if her recommendations are up to muster. Lean Beef Patty, prepare yourself. Alright, let's see, can't do a push-up, lean Beef Patty can help you out, let's see what she's saying. Did a lot of push-ups? Three assisted variations. One from the knees, keep torso straight slash core engaged, good advice so far. Booty band assisted interesting. She's using it like a slingshot that Mark Bell makes. Clever would say in the real world this is just going to probably make you pretty uncomfortable and it rides up on your titties and I have titties. And also it does reduce the growth potential of this exercise because it reduces loading at the stretch and increases loading relatively at the peak contraction at the extension. So it does degrade the hypertrophy value, but it can be a tool for progression that eventually when you can do real push-ups you get even more hypertrophy out of the lens and then long resistance and assisted it's just another way to set up your band which makes sense suffers a little bit from that reduced hypertrophy with the lack of as much of a stretch at the bottom but nonetheless pretty clever pretty clever will work. Higher safety's equals more assist thinner band equals less assist yep makes a lot of sense and the end in two thumbs up. Not bad, not bad. Good advice. Let's see what else she has. Dumbbell only leg work out. People are always very curious about this because some folks just have dumbbells, hopefully more than one and it's good to know how if you have only a dumbbell you can put together a competent leg workout. Hopefully a competent leg routine that you can use a few times a week for a few months at a time to get really really good gains excellent posing there as well. Let's get into it. All right first up is heel elevated goblet squats. Three, thy 10, 15 and 20. So I don't know if she means first to 10 then 15 then 20 which means she's doing the heaviest load first then going lighter and lighter. I think that's unusual advice because most people pyramid from lighter to heavier and I also think her advice is excellent because you want to train heavier when you're the most fresh. You can always crank reps and fatigue a muscle with high reps even if it's already tired from low reps which you can't do a factor of low rep training once you're fatigued from high reps because there's just no more juice. Let's see how our technique here looks. Pretty good. If I was really pedantic I would prefer a pause at the bottom that'll probably accentuate the hypertrophic response but these are actually executed very well. I will say that she's on quite a few plates and it's a little bit tough to generate a lot of force when your heels are that high in the air. I would probably prefer a bit of a wider stance, a bit less of a heel support but I'm just being nitpicky. This is quite good. Oh yeah and then so she's gone from a heavier dumbbell to a lighter dumbbell to just bodyweight and increasing reps the whole time. This is awesome. Awesome stuff. And then four sets of 10 to 12 reps I think that is a dumbbell stiff leg and deadlift. She does have a little bit of a curious technique on it when she is in the descent phase and the eccentric phase she's bending her knees quite a bit a little bit more than I would like to see. You want to keep the knee back almost straight but not quite because of the eccentric and stretch tension at the hamstring is maximized because that muscle is pre-length and for you. As she comes up she straightens her knee which is good because it exerts a lot of requisite force on the hamstring to contract concentrically but we know from some literature that the eccentric portion of a contraction especially the deep stretch at the bottom is probably at least a little bit more muscle growth inducing than the concentric on the way up. So I would love to see her. This is very good technique but to be a perfectionist I would love to see her start with her knees back. Another quick thing and this is a mistake people make all the time a little bit more of a preference than a mistake and that is she's looking directly down into the ground and she's rounding her upper back in this exercise. What I would like to see is her arch her upper back that helps you arch the lower back and if you look up and forward and helps you do that helps you push your hips back more naturally it's an auto cue and then also can help you detect if your knees are too far forward and help you push your knees back. That upright posture is not the way to lift the most weight but the mind muscle connection you can generate with your hamstrings and the specific technique to make sure your hamstrings and the limiting factor will occur better for most people if they arch their entire back and lift their chest up. I see a lot of people doing this look down stuff. I don't really know where they got it from but this is not the ideal technique for the exercise. Alright that was very good a couple pointers but in general not terrible. Yes if I saw her doing the set the gym would be like okay respect I wouldn't be like what's that. Alright and now we have 45 degree back raises for sets of 12 to 15. So the first thing I'll say is if this is all in the same leg routine you're going to experience probably an unbelievable amount of hamstring deliad onset so on us in weakness and you won't be able to do this routine very often. I think to begin with this is a bit much I would do half the volume on stiff liganded lift half the volume on this and if you recover well from that and you heal on time for your next workout maybe half a week later you can get back into it and then over time if necessary add a certain number of sets. She's definitely doing this exercise seemingly to target her glutes we know this because people who say target the glutes want you to have her her around it up her back and they want you to sort of look down. The reason they do this is because it tilts the pelvis in such away that the glutes can really help it but it doesn't pre-stretch the hamstrings at time. I will say she's going so deep and her back is flattening out so much of the bottom that this is still a height stimulus the high stimulus high stimulus movement for the hamstrings so we have to factor in that volume which is again why I think starting out with this number of sets can be a bit much for some people but her technique on this is very good. Someone message her I guess you posted this and they said great pick THO and that's one hell of a pet peeve of mine because that's not how you spell though you lazy f***ing asshole you have a strange vibe on your Insta are you unhappy I would file this comment under trying to get laid in the most pathetic way possible I guarantee you this motherfucker is the world's driest dick and if you're the one that sent this to her that's you dog. Alright home back workout I said home back is one word because lean beef patty spelled it as one work I don't know what home back is but I sure hope it's a hard workout superman's possessive the apostrophe before the S means that Superman owns this it might be needlessly pedantic the answer Superman is a movement which trains mostly the spinal directors and it trains them at a shortened position and most of the force is highest in the shortened position making them not a very good movement but an interesting warmup and something I'm not terribly against. Australian pull ups interesting I didn't know they were called that I always called them inverted rows her execution here is excellent test the strength of the broom handle you're using I would also say that it would be who you to use slightly higher chairs than she's using so the bottom you can get a real deep stretch that deep stretch is a very important part of muscle growth process and it optimizes to create extent she has figured out a way to position the bar that gives her two things one it gives her a comfortable position to touch her body to another thing it does well is it's leverished just higher low enough so that you can get a good number of repetitions if you try to do this too high or too low it's either awkward or you're just not strong enough to do a good number of reps which is at least five percent okay so the top hold is not a very good exercise we know two things roughly from research that has amounted over 30 years so far in exercise and sports science one is that isometrics probably are of the three types of muscle contractions eccentric concentric and isometric probably the least likely to produce hypertrophy aka muscle growth and another thing we know is that contractions at shorter muscle lengths when your lats are closer to their peak contraction versus longer muscle lengths when they're stretched out typically are not as hyper-troph so you want longer muscle length contractions typically in a dynamic sequence of concentric in eccentric but if you're going to emphasize one it should be the e-centric. The easier great this is a great exercise I think in order to train to be able to do more pull-ups and in order to get a limited equipment situation of back hypertrophy at home but I would like to see is her actually eliminate that few seconds of top hold at the top as soon as she gets up to the top start even more slowly than she's doing coming all the way down holding at the bottom for a little bit re-jumping in hitting up another rep again emphasis on the eccentric and on the contraction at a longer muscle length rather than shorter. Another great tool to help you get your pull-ups though we get a little thumbs up from awkward nerd girl continuing on she can do pull-ups by herself which is all-term impressive she's just showing off struggling with pull-ups but scared of the band smacking you in the face this is a legitimate fear if you're a man it can also smack you in the genitals and it's supposed to do that to a woman too but there is another way okay a ha she's going to put the safety up and I assume she's going to string the band right there and then you step on the band yes so the problem with band assisted pull-ups is that precisely when you need the help which tends to be more at the top and at the bottom is where the band kicks out and doesn't help you much and precisely where you need the most tension which is at the very deep stretch of the bottom that your lats are getting pulled apart that's what caused the most growth that's when the band steal more of the force away from you the best possible way to be able to do pull-ups when you can't is to use the assisted pull-up machine it's a neutral force curve just like the regular pull-up it's the best your next best bet is a lat pull down and a bunch of rows if you do a bunch of rows and a bunch of pull-downs you get stronger and pull-downs for a while eventually doing pull-ups will be an obvious thing this kind of band assistance I would say is somewhere in third or fourth place maybe in third place before that is a friend helping you get the concentric version of the pull-up up by pulling up by your feet and then you come down under your own power with the concentric as soon as you're at the bottom they help you up again and so on and so forth that allows them actually to help you more where you need it less where you don't and makes a very very good force curve the situation is that you don't actually have any friends and you are too socially awkward to reach out to anyone at the gym to help you also you don't like people touching you and then so you are stuck doing band assisted pull-ups which isn't the worst thing in the world certainly not the best Smith machine leg exercises by leaving beef haddy let's take a look okay the back squat her technique general looks very good the depth is very good if you are interested in the best quad development and you're interested in keeping your lower back feeling as good as possible it would probably be a good idea to turn completely around in the Smith machine you want the Smith machine as it goes down if you have a slanted machine to also come out in front of you but that's going to allow you to do is to get your knees over your toes further keep your heels planted stay more upright that bar path which is the reverse of what she's doing is going to allow you to have your back not be as much of a landing factor and have your quad's really take most of the strength and get your body into a position where quad is the huge stimulus otherwise her technique is good you'll see her kind of sort of rounding out and forward at the bottom and that that is as a consequence of facing the wrong way in a sense in the Smith machine this is not a mortal sin but nonetheless there is some optimization missing here we've got a split squat also done in the reverse direction I would prefer to see it but less of an issue with split squat great include exercise she's doing it very well I would like to see her ideally go a little bit slower on the way down to build a very eccentric and then come up more athletically in the way up she's doing the athletic and we have part very well but slow on the way down and maybe a gentle pause at the bottom I don't even do this myself half a time with the sucks it hurts but it's a good kind of pain I suspect one of the reasons she's demoing it this way is because all of these are ass shots and the way you get to female start them as you show your ass a lot the way you get to male start them is you show your ass a lot god damn it I just figured out so familiar scissi squat brutal this is brutal now she's doing a very good job here in the scissi squat couple of notes for the for the wise one is she's wearing the knee sleeves which will help that bar sensation without them it's an interesting sensation on the back of your knee another thing is you had better hope that plate does not slip holy shit you were going to go flying I think based on the thinness of that bar she could go much deeper take a pause at the bottom I'm talking about don't click get those glutes real close to those ankles that stretches the quads out like crazy crazy crazy crazy and can allow you to get an unbelievable amount of muscle growth for each repetition slowly going down to the descent pausing there for she one or two seconds and then coming up that would take a very good exercise execution with she's illustrating and make it a great exercise let me tell you guys about the RP hypertrophy app with over 28 preset programs already in the app you can choose to make your own you can modify an existing program or you can just run the programs exactly as they were written by e-personal this app programs everything for you exercises weights sets reps frequency the whole thing after every single workout every single week the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input we have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one you never have to be confused about technique or form ever again guessing right now you're pretty interested in the app download the RP hypertrophy app today while Gary and split squat okay very very well executed again looking down for some strange reason I'll never figure out people do on social media she is sitting very far back into the movement that's excellent this is gonna toast her glutes right off of her body goody center control I really can't dog this movement at all this is a plus work all right body weight push work out let's see how this goes okay starting out with a pike pushup it's a fine exercise a little bit awkward and the range of motion at the shoulder and elbow joint is severely curtailed by the fact that your head gets in the way I don't love this exercise but it's okay if you're just using your body weight and the ground handstand pushup for the advanced uh yep very good similar to a pike pushup except harder again handstand pushup if you don't have any kind of supports to push your head through which you need to be even stronger for it's necessarily a partial range of motion movement at the top doesn't work ideally and you know that limited top range of motion is not superb but also requires a lot of balance a lot of setup I'm gonna say something a little bit controversial I think most handstand pushups are a lot more about showing off than they are about getting good high quality training but uh not saying she's showing off she should she's jacked and really strong but uh maybe not the ideal choice okay incline pushup very well executed this is a great movement for folks not quite strong enough to do regular pushups yet the benefit of an incline pushup is as you get lower the exposure of your strength to gravity increases because you're going for more vertical to more horizontal and this challenges your muscles more at longer muscle lengths during the stretch for both triceps front delts and chest making this a very very good choice for movement especially if you can be challenged in anywhere between 5 and 30 reps within client pushups all right decline pushups these are brutal she's doing them very appropriately so it looks quite good and she's controlling the eccentric pretty well if she lifted her head up she could get more range of motion and let her chest touch it round so I'd like to see her lift her head up maybe even archer back a little bit otherwise looks looks very good these are very challenging and not so comfortable because you have to make out with her ground basically I don't have anyone else to make out with so I make out with the ground all the time but it's pathetic and I hate myself every time I do it pushup plus ooh that's cool you do like a little cat back guys you will get more hypertrophy if you do the cat noise at the top if you don't this movement is pointless and you make sure everyone in the gym hears you and if they come up and try to inquire us to what is a miss you go all right that's it for miss lean beef patty overall I think this is great stuff of all of the mega influencers you could have on social media she's top tier because most of these movements are very good their foundational core movements often compound well controlled well progressed well thought through there's so much crap with single leg glue this and one arm across the body that little tiny pink dumbbells lean beef patty's not falling for any of that I give overall at least an A minus to this sort of lifting A minus that's my thing because she could do A and A plus work by slowing down her eccentric choosing slightly more optimal exercises for that bottom end position but overall this is really good stuff if you follow lean beef patty you're in for a whole lot of knowledge and awkward memes

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here. Who am I again? Her faster of exercise and sports science at Leeman College in the Bronx in New York City in the World War II of the rest. And also co-founder of Renaissance Predensation and co-creator of our suite of hypertrophy apps and training apps. And I do have an admission to make for you today, to you today. It's an uncomfortable admission, but I think in today's trying political times, fans sitting won't work anymore. It's time for me to take a stand. And I'm going to take a stand by admitting something to you that is uncomfortable for me to admit it. Because every day I fight against it, I am mortal. It's tough. And I am not a god. Now I'm doing everything in my power to engineer my way towards God like a mortality. Why do I tell you this? Because among us walk the immortals, not just the blade, trinity vampires, I'm sure they're around to vampires alone. But true gods, heroes, men of whom word spreads in only one of two ways. Way number one, whispers, I already see here. Chalice whispers, rumors, he's real. And the other way is screaming at the top of the lungs, during and by said female in an orgasm experienced by her to the very thought of this god and or if she's a very lucky direct physical experience. Like, what the f*** are you on about, bro? Oh, but you already know. Because you saw the thumbnail didn't you? There are men and brave men and capable men and strong men and there are gods. And Kiriakos Grizzly is a god. I'm not just because he's Greek, but that does hurt. You guys remember Hercules? I don't either. Because a strongest man ever from Greece is f***ing Kiriakos Grizzly. Scott, the video guy, roll that shit so we can just do one thing together as our little YouTube family. Bask in awe. Let's do it. Oh my god, yes. Oh god. The scale says full. You see, folks, that is because how do you weigh godhood? You shatter at its presence. You drop to your knees. Men from fear, women from the kind of inability to contract their lower bodies, I assume is concomitant with a full body orgasm. Ladies? Turns out, this is a dating tips episode. If you are a woman of reproductive age and hey grandma, don't tell anyone I said this but YouTube, you're going to want to take notes because I'm going to tell you how to make yourself most available to, I was going to say, a man like that's not true. A god like Kiriakos Grizzly. So more dating tips ahead. First, if you find yourself a man that steps on the scale, let's shit short circuits, I'm not Beyonce, but throw a f***ing ring on that shit. The rumor is that that was a 200 kilograms scale and I think he was like 200, 12 kilograms when he stepped on this. To 12k, that's like pushing 470 pounds. That's not a man, let me speak of. I love everything about it. Also his body composition, I'm no sports scientist, but I would say he looks to be about 8% fat. I'm in a conversation for 10 to 12% for you, Nasehers, but like anything north of 1415, you're out of your mind. And honestly, just jealous, I don't understand. Understand. Look again, seeing this kind of perfection is difficult to wrap the head around. You've been lifting a while, you think you're swollen on, you're kind of, you're a little f***ing small tea, your pecks are kind of popping, you're like damn dude, I'm out of my f***ing stare. I don't even know about it. And then you hear the mere mention of Kiriakos Grizzly and you realize you haven't trained at all. A chile, you are a child and so am I. Look at me, I'm Giriakos. I mean f***ing big titties, even if you're a straight dude, which sure I am. You can't resist the shit and obviously he's jacked and his beard is on point at 100% I can do this, I can do this. F*** yeah, hell yeah. I don't know what the f*** that is, but it looks dope. I imagine it to be a shrug, done in a way that is designed to maximally inconvenience the setup. Notice that he has tape, clear tape, packing tape around that number of 25s. These are 25 kilo plates by the way, it's real weight too, you can tell it because the bar is bending and he's got little chains there for some extra weight on top, he's nurturing it, which means he's holding into the crevices of his arms and he's doing a elbow shrugging, pecks, poppin, shoulders, juicy face that bloat 100. This is debate, like what is masculinity? That debate is over, you're looking at it. You want to be more like a man? You put a picture of Kiriakos Grizzly up in your f***ing bathroom, which should already replace the picture you already have up with him, just a new laminated version, and every day before you f***ing walk out of that bathroom that you brush your teeth and shave in and touch your body in the shower too, you tell yourself, Mr. Kuyakos, I will not let you down, and I will try to become much more like you with every single thing I do, starting with seat and zershush rugs. Some of you may be asking, or he seems quite tired from that, how come? I thought he was a god. Ooh, good one, folks, but you're not that clever. Scott, you grew up Christian, yes? Sure. Scott, what did God do on the last day after he created the heavens on the earth and man? Rest in my God. God's rest, folks. 40 chests. Kiriakos is playing with you with you f***ing pussy's out here. You know, we're all fighting demons in the gym, and because he's a god he's fighting like the devil I assume or multiple the devils, sometimes you got so much shit in there, and I don't mean clogged arteries. I mean demons, that even a hard set of, well frankly, whatever the f*** that was, just isn't enough to get it all out of the soul. So after you rack, you've got some shit in there still and what better to do than primal screen. Like guys like f*** yeah, I've no idea why I'm celebrating what happened in that range of motion exceed one inch finally. Okay, honestly, that flexibility is f*** dope. I can't do that shit. He somehow incredibly obese at 470 pounds and also wildly athletic. What? Oh damn, I also hitting the body building poses at it. When I would just say, and I've listened, I've been really fat myself before, comical body fat percentage is, well, God like. Because you could say to yourself, if I were this fat, there's no way I would hit body building poses because it would be embarrassing and I understand you as a mortal human, because I am too unfortunately, that makes sense in your head logically, except what to be embarrassed about if you can never die. Good morning with bar dump for no reason f*** re-racking it. Partial bent road deadlift combo. Oh, whoever made these videos is having a grand old time. Now, TPH unless this pick is enhanced, he looks like he like, of course he's a body fat very high, but you know, you don't get traps like that from body fat. And delts and packs and arms, curiosity must have learned on the other. And I mean George Clooney is good looking, but this real men, as we say in Russia. Oh yes, nothing like bar carries. Oh, and I love the angel wings. Some of them having a lot of fun at carryoccuses, either expense nor benefit. And you know, like, they got one thing, right? He's a f*** angel, right? Can you imagine you're like, you're some little kid, I don't know man, this is going to get dark road quick, but like your parents are fighting in the other room and you pray to God and you're like, please send me an angel to help me out of this. And I just want to be in a safe place where I feel safe and get a good night's rest. Amen. And then like the door bust open and carryoccuses, like you pray for me. Yes, I am carryoccus and you're like, why yes, sir. These are Texas angel wings through the door. If there's fall everywhere, he's like, come with me if you want to. You know, I don't know whatever. In any case, you're going to have a good time. Holy **** shit. Now like full stretch pull ups with little left lettuce system coming up over the bar with a chin at f*** 400 plus pounds is impressive. I think a real talk. Carryoccuses, Grizzlies, lifts are insane and weird and probably not very effective for the amount of fatigue they generated and excessively laborious to set up the gym situation to have them done. He's big and strong and athletic and it's a trip like God damn it. You're not supposed to be a move for an f*** pounds of that. Well, don't you go to Walmart next time. Pick someone out who weighs 400 should be easy and be like, hey, how many pullups can you do? They're going to be like, I, yeah, come on man, that's not nice. Carryoccus, he's your man. There is no avoiding hard training if you want to grow. But if you want to grow the most, your training needs to be hard and smart. RP Hiperchography app will make sure you're progressing on track, monitoring and adjusting your workout at all times. So for all that work you're doing, you can be sure you're getting the best results. Yes, I am an explanation for the Stuntler AMs still assigned to us. Most people understand that weights are an adamant objects and that they can you don't understand your emotions because if you scream at them, nothing's happening. But maybe that's true. And maybe it's just that the weights do understand at a requisite minimum intensity of screaming. And Kiriako has screamed hard enough directly at them that the weights usually are like, what? Huh? And this time, Kiriako says, ah, ah, and the weights are like, oh, no, yeah, but listen, handshake, I know exactly how you feel. Thank you, Kiriako is for letting me the weights know what you're feeling on the inside. And he's like, yeah, you're respected. Just want to be on the same page. You guys know people dogless birds. They can talk to dogs and shit. Kiriako is a weights whisper. And that's why he's the strongest thing that's ever been. Oh, he also seems to be yelling at the heater behind him. Maybe if the callers to sometimes you just got to let it out. Uh, ladies, imagine that. Kiriako's grizzly exists. And I want you to remember that for a second. I want to reach out to all the ladies who watch the channel, the three and a half of you that are our fan base. And I want you to be truthful with me right now, not even me. And then the quiet and piece of your own, ask yourself a question, are you having the kind of sex that you want to be in it? Like, is the sex you're having like, oh, thanks honey, that was great. You're so sweet. We'll kiss and then turn to sleep. Or is the sex you're having? A cosmic, calmic experience of full body clasps and releases that leaves you drained and confused in the shower for 30 minutes just staring at the bottle of shampoo barely able to amulate in your own two legs, wondering how can someone put out such good, god damn loving? Well, if it's not the second variety, there's a problem with an easy solution. The problem they're having is your second is mystical. And the reason is because you are not having the sex done to you by Kiriakos' grisly, ladies, let's all close our eyes together and imagine that f***ing chest hair rubbing up against your face as you gasped for the tiny little bit of air. He decides you get to have to keep you just awake enough to just disintegrate into a pile of pleasure beneath his 474 rhinoceros like pounds. Am I a racked you ask? Yes, and I have been for this whole video. Hey guys, if you desperately need more videos of Kiriakos grisly and you've already run through all his other stuff and you'd my incisive commentary to go along with it, we've got an extended cut, so that could be cool if you were a member, just saying hit that subscribe button slash membership button and I worked button just do it. Pause. Ladies, I'm making a hard cell. I know. I'm a bit tired of time or like, but like, why don't I add his abs? Like, I need a man with abs. Bitch, look at him doing crunches. Girl, can you do crunches when you're in 470? I didn't think so. I guys got abs as an abs, got abs. And those abs have abs. Unfortunately, there's about a phone book that's there. If body fat between that shit and the skin, but nonetheless, he's out here working. There is an unbelievable amount of ASMR value. There's something cathartic and soothing about watching Kiri Akras Grizzly just exist. He posted these videos. These are all of his channel that he posted first. Or whatever. His team is team. He gave a few members of his team. I liked the bunny hops. It doesn't seem like he's trying to get max altitude. It's like a Sumo squat jump also partial. Kiri is. You know, like, oh, you pray to God back in like the freaking Greek days with Greek gods of real and shit, like whatever, 3000 years ago. And like sometimes they be like, yeah, yeah, yeah, here's a good harvest, but sometimes they're like, ah, sorry, this volcano blew up and killed everyone in the f*** village. The gods have been described as Mercurial in nature. That is the perfect description for Kiri Akras Grizzly. What sense can you make out of these little, little, mini squat hops? Well, let me ask you a question. What sense can an ant make of a design for a quantum computer? None. It's orders and orders of magnitude outside of its cerebral capacity to understand. So when we try to understand what Kiri Akras is doing, and you think, oh, I've got to watch it, Dr. Mike video. A laugh at Kiri Akras to go, he's so silly. He does he silly things. Weir silly. He's not silly. There's a method to what looks like madness to us. Oh, f*** yeah. I thought I had full range of motion on my upright rows. Holy shit. This is called fiberase is overhead of 10 times 100 kilograms. I mean, look, it's an absurd lift for seemingly no purpose. First point. Second point. By the way, 100 key is basically two plates on a side, less like 225, to 20. If I see him on the f*** man handling, to above head height, 220, 225 in the f*** gym, I'm not f***ing that guy. Kiri Akras could pick up a grown man and just throw his ass aside. F*** that. The guy that his crew is amazing. The guy behind him is like, yep. This is another day, another day, another dollar. You know how we tell you on this channel a control the descent to get the most muscle grown. Apparently we're wrong. The clap is incredible. There must be some sarcasm baked in these guys. Oh, Christmas colored weights. Let's see what's going on. Oh, we've seen this exercise before. This is kind of not so much load for Kiri Akras. He's had even more before on their hanging. The gut really comes in handy for this. Trust me, I have a gut. These lifts are easy when you have a gut. If you don't, you're not really a man, so it gives a shit. F*** yeah. Not a terrible movement for various forms of athletic development. His profile view from the side there is sexual. Oh my god. Oh my god. I didn't think the shit could get any more absurd. Behind the back momentum wrist curls with straps on. Again, I reveal my mortality and small brain didn't this with the question of why. There must be a reason I simply can't comprehend. Oh yeah, little bar partials. He's like, okay, okay, I'll go down a little bit further than the third of the way down on this last map. Dumb victory. Hey, that's like Randy Coleman used to do. The way I would describe his lifting is if you wanted the minimum muscle growth possible for the most joint pain possible and the most inconvenience and lifting possible, this is how you would do it again, you because you're not a god like your eocons. Is he wearing jeans? No, no, those are sport pants. This is where I'm supposed to grade it, right? You guys ready for my grade? What about of 10? What I'm right saying next will be the end of the video. Consider that my statement out of 10. God is real. See you next time. If you guys liked that video, YouTube thinks you're going to really love this one over here, so give it a click and go down a fantasy, k-hole of endless YouTube videos.

Oh no, Scottie lifted from the wrong side! Scottie even succeeded the end! I mean, what worst thing could have happened? Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. I am a former professor at Exercise and Sports Science. I am a competitive Brazilian agency grappler and a bodybuilder of low-repeat. And I have been hurt before, sometimes quite severely. And today we are going to be looking by popular demand, apparently, at various injuries. And so my first thing I got to tell you right now is if you are not good with injuries, and your squeamish, please do not watch the rest of this video. We got plenty of other great videos, and the internet is a big place with tons of other great content. However, if you are tough of mind, and you want to learn some stuff about injury management and prevention, and also just watch me grimace a lot, and probably pass out halfway through commentating, you came to the right place. Three, two, one! Let's all jump into a wichever together. 915 pounds, certainly nothing bad can happen. This is an IPF lift, which means it is going to be legit a shit. Oh boy, oh boy, this is scary dude. Spodding heavy lifts. Somebody's got to do it, but I always thought that... Spodding heavy lifts was like the scariest thing in the world, because it's the simultaneous thing of you could get hurt doing it, which isn't that big of a deal, it's not that scary. You could screw up and hurt someone else by doing your job poorly, or even trying to do your job not poorly, but sometimes people just get hurt, so it could be a thing that none of these guys really did anything wrong. Just sometimes go south, and I just hate to be the person that's involved in that at all. God bless Spodders man. Oh my god, oh my god! That was a whole lot of shit at Ha! There was a lot happening. Alright, this video, according to the creators, just keeps getting worse and worse. I pray you never pinch 250 pounds on your junk. Ah! Ah! Ah! That really happened! So basically he fudged him in client, right? And then he put it down here, and then he crushed his cock, and then he busted his eye open. Scott didn't call the overhead, log pressed there. Yeah, I was gonna be one of these. Earlier, yeah, there we go. Man, go did, go did forget your hurt. Great technique, just. And pressure differential, and... is the absolute worst thing. Oh my god, he was big basically half passed out, and it hit him, and kind of pushed blood to his head and woke him up. Awful. Oh, and by the way, all vibes, all of them were spiked guys. We're not trying to clown on anyone. Everyone gets hurt. And if you haven't ever gotten hurt, you just haven't been training hard enough for putting things enough for the line during competition. So the real actual humans here is videos we're watching, mega love, mega respect. I hope everyone here is doing their goddamn best. And if you had a video of me getting hurt, it would be a clown show that it's like 30 hours more. Oh god damn, it's got... It's like you know it's coming. You're bound. You're bound. He's finished. He's the man. God. It right away, bro. Oh, dude, he finished the pool, which is so baller, like... I guess the question is like, what could he have done about this? So I have let's say 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, excellent. So I'll do 3 right now. This is kind of a guide. So it's actually some value in this video of how to reduce your probability of injury. And one of them is... Actually hold on. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7. So there's a bonus one. The first one is the bonus one. And here it is. Accepting the risk. Anytime you go and try to lift heavy things, really try your hardest, especially when the reps are less than five, like your five rep max or heavier, you have to understand that you are entering an environment where realistic risks exist. They're low, but they're real. And so if you haven't come to a piece of mind about that, just don't do strength sport. Every time you get under a heavy barbell or pick up a heavy stone or roll up a heavy log, you have to say, you know what? I'm going to try my hardest. And if injury comes for me today, it's part of being a warrior. If you're squeamish about it, just do bodybuilding, like the rest of us pussy's, and you probably never get hurt because the reps are super controlled and the weights are super light. Relatively speaking, of course, even in bodybuilding, you can still get hurt. It's a real good idea to accept that out front. There is nothing we can do. Should have really advanced biotech coming in the future or cybernetic enhancement, then it's going to drive your injury probability down to basically zero. Everything has a risk. So knowing that is a big deal. The next thing is always an everywhere good technique. You see this gentleman, he's pulling with excellent deadlift technique, but he does absolutely have both of his arms bent a little bit. One of the good deadlifting cues is as you grab the bar and when you cinch in, what you want to do is straighten out and loosen up your shoulders so you get the best leverage you can. And straighten your elbow. Some people cue to push the bar away from you before you start pulling. For two reasons, one, it's better leverage. You can lift more weight. And two, it doesn't have your biceps being that little tiny linchpin in the whole system and going on. You good technique no matter what, you can choose to get hurt. If you are doing reps or something and you're like, I know I could do this next rep with good technique, but I just want to get the rap. And so people see, yeah, man, three of those are good technique, but two of those were kind of like, I was just kind of doing it totally. But every now and again, those two bad technique reps, you will pay for with a cut injury, and you shouldn't do that because injury is really terrible. It takes a ton of time away from training, psychological, it's real tough to deal with. It disrupts your progress and really extreme forms of injury. You'll never be the same again or until real crazy feature by our tech hits, which is going to happen in like a decade or something. I'm not trying to wait a decade to be my best self again. And so good technique is just something you don't want to trade out. The next thing is a great and exposure. If you have never done a kind of lift before, you've never high bar squatting. You've never done a clean and press or something like that. And you just try it. You go as heavy as possible to probably be in a injury. It's a way higher than if you start like and work your way up over time. Greated exposure slowly, having a more and more exposure to this potential injury vector is going to harden up your tissues literally by making them physically adapt to that kind of loading pattern. So there's stronger and thicker and more resilient. And by the time you're doing one-run max is the stuff like that, your probability of injury is much, much lower, precisely and simply because the fact that you are not doing something you're totally unacustom to and you don't have the structure to support. And then the next one and the last one for now is good fatigue management. If you are in a state of very high fatigue, your athleticism, your ability to coordinate your movements, falls substantially. And if you're very high fatigue, your connective tissues like your tendons are a little bit afraid. They only heal if you take a week or two of lighter easier training or almost no training at all. If you peak appropriately by taking a taper, everything heals and your athleticism is maximized because your fatigue comes down. If you're in a really high fatigue state and you try to yellow and go super heavy, you might have a bad time. If you're in a better fatigue state, your probability of getting hurt is much, much better. So if you manage your fatigue well, taking delodes, taking active rest phases, having appropriate tapers, not doing things at random, that's going to be a really, really good thing. All right, we'll do a couple more of these in a little bit. Now, I'll let watch people hurt themselves. They say no lift, didn't get that lift? Hitching. All right, what's next? We have to email Parallelift and here in 21 pounds. Pointer boy Nick Best. Oh, Nick Best. You've got a very awesome person someone who've had trained with on the channel. And he's just absurdly strong and it's like 60 years old and still strong. It makes no damn sense. All right, what's he doing? Oh, did he do his lap? Oh, God, that's actually quite rare and very disturbing. Oh, my God. Yeah, the last kind of anchor you in and keep the bar close when you're deadlifting. And I saw that one go. This is terrible. All right. When I first tore my lot off of a little nervous at first and I was waiting to see how it felt. And you don't feel too much. You know it's tendon. And so right away, I kind of knew it was a tendon. Look at that bruising. They got surgery on it, huh? Yeah. Good for him. You want to reattach that otherwise your arm doesn't really work. So I knew it could be fixed and I knew it was just going to be a journey of hard work, therapy. Going to get the stuff done once it's reattached and then just taking my time and slowly and methodically working my way back. Wow. Yeah, honestly, once you get hurt, another thing is accepting the fact that you got hurt and asking only one question. What is my most intelligent thing to do now going forward to make this better? Throw away your note pad and your excel sheets. The RPi-Pertrophy app has all of your workouts displayed in one place with guided videos on exercise techniques and a program that evolves to better suit your needs. The longer you use the app, all you have to do is follow the plan right on your phone and get the games. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. Is he pulling on a barbell that's outside of the rack? Yeah, just sitting on the rest. Okay. Well, this is not going to be rocket science. Oh, my sweet dick. Oh, yeah, guys, if something is not like stapled into a rack, it will come off and hit you in the cock. Number one rule. Oh, no, Scottie lifted from the wrong side. He's like, I'm going to lift this from this side and make him feel even more pain in the interim. Scottie even succeeded the end. That video just cuts off. Yeah, that's all we know. Yeah. All right, keep that guy. Okay, so first of all, if you're going to have in a squat, side spotters, everyone who's been involved in the sport of powder, if you know the two guys on one on each side can do way more for you than one back spotter. Arguably one back spotters is like, unless they're very well trained and so is the lift or doing it is like worsening the situation than not. Because this guy would be a better off just like dumping backwards and getting shot out the front. Instead, he's like, maybe about to die or something. I don't know. Bad look. I mean, there are jujitsu moves that try to neck wrench you and they usually can't apply 400 pounds of force on your neck. So good God. Good job Michigan State. I'm kidding. I went to Michigan. You guys are great. All right, Mike, this guy's name was Justin Vicki. This is a one on four, definitely. It's like an Indian influencer this happened the she years ago. Okay. So it's going to make the main channel. This will probably end up in members. Okay. Folks, if you want to see actual like legit, not blurred out and way more screwed up in juries, I don't know why you'd want to see such a thing. We have that in the member section and all the other actual size scientists that came before this longer, harder, uncut, a bunch of other really content in our member section. Give that a click. Let's get back to the video. Larry, the cable guy has to make an appearance. So if you recognize him on the right side. Oh, wait. Is that really him? Get it in, brother. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Is that his humorous? Yeah, sure was. That's not a bicep, Tairman. That's the bone. Look at Larry's face. Poor Larry. Larry. Is Larry good at arm wrestling or some shit? Or are these just all very untrained people? Because snap that guy's arm. That looks fit. I know, man. Dude arm wrestling's crazy. So we got through good fatigue management. Next up is going to be proper warmups. In any acute injury, you have a, if you skip or shorten your warmup, your probability of getting hurt is much higher than if you take the warmups. I like the 128-4 system. 12 reps with your 30 rep max. 8 reps with your 20 rep max. Four reps with roughly your 10 rep max. Each one of those is a few minutes in between, a few minutes at the end. And then you're doing your actual work set for most hypertrophy work. Even a good deal of strength work. This is a good way to warm up. You want to mobilize and want to get flexible. If you rush the process, tissues that are physically cold are literally in the physics sense more brittle and more likely to snap. Warming up is a very good idea. And it also gets you grooved in with your technique. And again, good technique puts you into better positions so that you don't get hurt. So warm up has a multiple factors going for it to reduce injury probability in the best part. It also makes you stronger. Abletoe exhibit your strength better. So there's actually no good reason to not warm up outside of sheer laziness. And listen, a lot of the time I'll come to the gym and I won't warm up nearly as much as I should. That's a me problem. That's me being a bad person. Don't do stupid shit like I do. And like many people do warm up a ton. The next one is detecting the pre-injury. You're doing leg presses. Your quad feels real weird after rep number nine. Nine times out of ten. Just rack the weight. And if you get up after racking kind of wiggle your quad around massage it a little bit. Do a couple bodyweight squats and feels totally fine. Take half the weight off the leg press. Do it for a few reps. It feels totally fine. Get under the leg press with full weight. Do a rep or two rack. Feels great. Bad was just like many cramp or something. Nothing just keep doing sets. You lost nothing except for ten minutes of your time. And you probably maybe possibly gained never having to get hurt. Whereas if you feel really weird in your quad structure or something weird you're like that one more rep that rep could be the thing that tears your quad. And then you're going to spend a lot of time in the hospital bed and wishing you had stopped. A lot of times injury comes out of nowhere. There's nothing to do about it. And there's nothing to do about it. There's nothing to do about it. There's nothing to do about it. Don't ever worry about that. But if you know that you ignored your best senses. And you're like, yeah, I should rack this. That's the thing. A lot of times with peck tears when you're coming up. You're going to feel your peck get real tight and real weird. That's when it's time to rack. And sometimes people keep going and then the whole thing goes. Because if it gets real tight and weird weird, maybe for two weeks you can get really sore all the way up through the tendon. Rehab, you know, just get the lightweight super deep stretch. And after a month you're as big as you've ever been. Strong as you've ever been. There's no macro damage. You're just getting new PR as all the time. If you go out of that second rep or whatever rep number seven or whatever it is. And then you snap your shit up. You might not be the same for a year. Your pecks might never feel the same again because you'll have a full of all jam. Huge, huge deal. And then lastly, some combination of knowing when to say when. You're on set number six of the leg press and your quads are wobbly and shaky and you're going to have a real trouble with technique. You're already pumped to shit and your friends like do. Let's do a drop set or something. You do that. You get to stop when you're done when you're cooked when you're cached out. Sometimes you've got to be like, you know what man? We had a great workout. I accomplished everything that my RPI, Pertrfee app, link in description, said it was a good idea to accomplish. We're done here. Going for that extra mile. Sometimes awesome. But sometimes when you're like, I don't know man. I don't even have this ability to do this anymore. Just knowing when to say when is going to save you from injury a bunch. And the big part of that, this is why it's count is only six of these. But eight depending on how you caught him is just not doing dumb. Dumb is a very wide plethora of stuff. But it mostly includes ego lifts you've never trained for. Like the strong man or like, oh, you're pretty jack. Think you can overhead press this. You like, yeah, why not? You don't warm up. You just do it. You snap your dumb. Is when you are get real competitive and lose track of your programming. You're doing sets of fives with someone's like, amen. Let's like work up to a single. You're like, yeah, let's do it. Unplanned stuff like that. Ballistic jumps and things. A lot of people get hurt from like grappling in the gym when they're not trained. Grapplers, you know, like, I've been involved with other, you know, content creators. And one of them, I will say who this is, I thought I could figure a bad bad thing at all. But he's like, hey, like, do you think you can take me down? And I'm like, well, that probably, you know, and he's like, all right, do it. And I'm like, I got in on a single and I just tried to pull a little bit and he backed up. And I was like, I couldn't do it. And he's like, man, I thought you were like a black belt or whatever. And I was like, well, yeah. But then if you think it through, like, what am I going to do? I'm going to, I'm going to, I haven't warmed up. I'm going to rent you a single out of you. I'm going to pull my bicep. I got training to do. I can't afford to do that. Or I'll rent you a single, but you didn't ever wrestle. You know, how to defend it. You fall on your ass and crack your classics or something like that. Because it's the gym floor or you try to really defend. I push your leg up and you fall and hit your head on a weight stack. No one is having any fun. And remember the outcome of, oh, he could take me down on the gym. This is a year award for that. So a lot of times like getting into stupid is absolutely a number one way to get hurt. Of all of the things I've ever gotten hurt through my life, doing dumb. It was rank number one by a long shot, doing program. Even very heavy lifts in the gym almost never got me hurt. So next time you wanted to dumb, like seeing who can cheat curl the most, just don't do it. All right. Re-racking on to independent racks is a f***ing perilous perilous thing. Ugh, it hit him in the face. Scott, this isn't even over because the shit is still up in the air, huh? Oh my god! It pinned him at the end. That was dumb, you guys. The gym can be a dangerous place, but I will tell you as this. The vast majority of injuries that you will ever see, you only see because they are rare and very shocking. And you can get this illusion via what's called the availability of your aesthetic, which is whenever stuff you've seen, your brain starts to build out its world model and say, oh, that's what happened. And if you've seen a lot of injury videos, you think they happen all the time. If the thing is you've seen one of the 50 injury videos around the whole world that have catalogued a huge fraction of the injuries that have ever happened. So, I will say statistically, every single sport, as far as I know, is a more dangerous than lifting weights at the gym. And as a higher injury rate, basketball, soccer, forget about it. Way more dangerous. Now, when you see soccer players just kicking the ball around, you don't ever think like, oh my god, they're in dire straits. When you see big, heavy weights and people moving around, it's natural human intuition to think, oh my god. This is like super dangerous. Where the reality is, the environment in lifting weights at the gym is so well controlled. And the forces are onset very slowly and with a very dedicated range of motion. And in soccer, all you have to do is you step wrong. Your cleat catches a little hole in the ground and you turn your foot out and there go half your tendons in your knee. So, basketball, anytime you get off the ground, the return and you fall incorrectly is a huge disaster. When I'm going to talk about cheerleading gymnastics. So, the reality is this lifting weights is super, super ultra safe. If you intake and process the recommendations I gave earlier about being smart about stuff, and if you do get hurt, come back extra slowly. You're probably going to have an amazing time of the gym, and you're probably never going to hurt a huge, huge way to see out for a long time. And if you do, it is an opportunity to level up and use that as an excellent experience to harden up and to take all of those lessons how you overcame the injury into the rest of your life. Folks, stay safe out there. And if you have a hobby that includes watching people get hurt, go get screened for psychopathy and stay the way from the rest of us. JK sort of, I've been Dr. Mike. And I'll see you guys next time. I was done. This video here is probably more entertaining and informative. And it probably doesn't have people's traffic in half. Click on it or just go take a break. Think about God. See you next time.

Like their whole thing is this is right you are wrong and it's getting back to like the conditioning of I want to get a degree so I know I can get a job. I want to know it's gonna work It's a it's a snake oil of an idea like in in their world. It's I wish there's a pill Sam you take steroids bro Hey folks Dr Mike here for RP strength I am have been a longtime professor exercise and sports science a Brazilian YouTube Black belt Kia and a competitive bodybuilder and I have once trained in the same room as Even gotten a few pictures with a A Mr Sam Sulek and a very good friends with a Mr Chris Williams and they spoke recently and Got Sam's taken a bunch of different stuff, but especially Scott the video guy and I got our You know it knows this out for his take on science based training. Oh boy Nothing could go wrong with that Let's find out what he said Let's see how to make sense of it some Stuff we're gonna probably agree on and really even try to fan the flames around a needy some stuff that I have a slightly different perspective All right three two one Mr Sam Sulek What do you make of the World of evidence based lifting science based stuff at the moment? I think I think there's people who are gimmicky about it Yeah, hey Sam talk that shit babe. We out here though Scott you feel me hold up And make it a thing because they know it's like Because an older person or an older guy who works out he's gonna stick to the basics that he know works for him Which is you know sweet, but you know he's gonna be hard of him to accept new ideas So for a younger guy It's kind of this like Cloud mentality of like all on the new wave train, but some bits of little silly Yeah, there's definitely some of that going on there's a hashtag science based and there's a really bad way to do science based or evidence based training There's just ways to do it wrong like you can do old school bro training and kind of a glomerate all the stuff about bro training It was really good like go hard Challenger self at extreme ranges of motion Make sure to be strict with your technique don't lie to yourself That's all like Jim wisdom 101 stuff, you know like see in a lab you can hear that from the guys Or you could do all the worst parts of bro stuff which is like really weird partial rep ranges at the wrong parts of the range of motion tons of eagle lifting bad technique and consistent training and so there's good and bad ways to do bro stuff and just the same way as Sam is kind of Looting to hear there's good and bad ways to do evidence based science based lifting I mean a bad way is to basically It's got let's figure this out. What's a bad way find one Paper on PubMed that you don't have access to the journal to so you can only read part of the abstracts the rest You don't understand and you read the title and you instantly think that that one paper just tips the entire science on its head of what we knew before You just justify everything you can with that one paper and the justification is for training That's incredibly easy and incredibly infrequent, but somehow hashtag science gives you those mega gains even though You're barely trying Scott. How do I do that's pretty good? Yeah, but but Pablo at all said and then it just keep talking about that as if you don't know how I actually science works But we'll talk about what science based training is really really inclusive of just a little bit because I think I I watch to head and I've seen what Sam says I don't think all of it is so I'm not I would never The point isn't exactly what they're doing But a lot of the idea behind it and it's kind of its own subculture is It's very like it's a weird elitism It is a weird elitism sometimes with evidence based training and that happens kind of for a A few reasons one and anytime you get a little club people doing one thing and they think it's better than other folks There's elitism automatically the science based training has another level of elitism because it gets to be a form of intellectually elitism It's not for everyone to be able to or to enjoy Perusing studies watching nerdy videos thinking about a lot of stuff and doing much of math should like that So if you can do that stuff and you are kind of adept at it You can take an elitism with regard to your training You're like well, I'm actually thinking through my stuff and always other people of idiots and all other people might actually not Be some combination not as good as at science thing as you but also maybe they have different priorities And so And if you're good at science that doesn't mean you need to like raise yourself Moreally in the eyes of your own analysis above others So there's a lot of stuff that comes with that there's definitely some elitism that comes with that now in the other hand There is another kind of in group elitism for people that don't like science based training They're actually against it and these are real people on the internet and they post You know pictures profile pictures like no science based lifting over here brother and you're like well Actually you're proud that you're not thinking about things which again Usually those folks are reacting to the negative extremes of science based lifting the weird claims off of a single study the Very confidently kind of trying to just prove people wrong when you yourself the disprover has no muscle to Show for that kind of it kind of achy stuff about science. There's definitely a reaction to that That's also elitist so I guess that at the end of the day There are many groups in sports and subcultures like bodybuilding Which like to consider themselves better than others and in some ways they aren't and some ways they aren't it's usually better to stay balanced like their whole thing is this is right You are wrong and that's not even true because there's so many people that get so many different results Doing so many different things like the idea that their following is if I'm not perfect Then there's no point. Yeah, this is where you get into kind of the neuroticism part of it a lot of people who Not all but some decent chunk of people who are really really into evidence based science based training They really have a high degree of trait neuroticism as expressed and so they're really concerned For their safety they're concerned for the area kind of insurability of their results They're massive second gessers and they're very insecure and it's okay. That's why I always as well. Let's lift right Scott Pretty insecure Maybe I'm not you Scott you're good you were always an alfamale and I just lift for fun to just clown on the rest of us I just left because big dogs got it Big dogs must eat Scott how are big dogs can suppose to maintain their body weights if they don't eat you tell me or occasionally how at least In securities a thing and then evidence based folks will be like if I just get these variables perfectly if I Pretend my way into thinking this technique as they exactly the same ideal technique for everyone if I count every half rep and Exactly try to guess RIR I will be able to control the situation of I must have growth so perfectly that I the input output system is almost one to one Now that's that aspiration which is a very good aspiration We should all try to become as much the engineers of our bodies and much less the artists in the vibe sense art is great But in the you're not certain what you're gonna get if you do a certain thing not ideal We should definitely be striving for perfection But pretending you have perfection already and attaching yourself to it is a very different thing than striving for it and knowing that it's In perfect the entire time there a lot of people in evidence base space not all of them But a decent chunk of them basically will try to do this monotonous robotic thing because it makes them fill it Feel it ease that they're doing a thing that is super correct and a lot of times they they close their blinders off to other ideas Which could be wrong and often are but could be right and so as an evidence based science based think you're at your best You should be thinking with an understanding of what probably works best in doing that most of the time But then also an open-mindedness on the margins of like hey this this other idea It seems like it could work let me try it instead of poop pooling it right away because it's not super hashtag sign and that's the the demand of being able to explain it with studies because You know Don't into the gym at all is kind of uncomfortable It's always like a winner people gonna watch me working out. I've never done it. I'm uncomfortable because I've never actually gotten experience doing it It's it's something where it does have it inflated kind of situation you don't get nervous back going into a freaking Starbucks, but the gym is a little different because it has that physicality Scott the last time I went into a Starbucks as I was pronouncing that order my pants unbuttoned and fell off Everyone was laughing at my tiny crooked folks There is still more video to come but if you want a longer More extended uncut version of This video and many others and tons of science stuff we have members area click around check it out click on things It's a bit of money for a ton of bit of value all right back to the video Why don't you just go ahead and tell the people you're go to Starbucks order that you order so much all the time? Oh, I love it. So I was actually working with I'm not supposed to talk about this We were doing a bit of work with Starbucks because I'm a really famous person And very important and wealthy I might add I'm incredibly wealthy I just want everyone to understand that It however wealthy you think I am it's more wealthy than that and that formula does apply no matter who you are give that some thought and so I was like listen Starbucks I want my shit when I come to your coffee shop I want my order. I don't want whatever order you think the average American I'm not I'm not the average American I raised my voice like that they were like Mike Okay, what do you want? With your trillions of dollars and I said look honestly it's not that hard I need to go pretty heavy sometimes in training But at the same time I have high reps that's as well because I trained for hypertrophy. Is there like okay? Okay, write that down and someone just start scribbling right like one other Scott, you know the assistant girl She's just a bit like I don't even know she's making any letters She's just like shitting her pants because it looks like chicken scratch and They're okay, okay, okay, I'm like so what I would really like is a really supportive belt Not designed for powerlifting which can be great for a few reps But it's really uncomfortable to wear for sets of 10. It's either too restrictive or not form fitting enough I want to be able to unclamp my belt loosen it a little bit walk around the gym clamp it again Every time slightly differently depending on how long in the workouts been what exercise I'm doing what offseason or pre-contested is Totally adjustable belt that also cinches my waist together He gives me 360 degrees of abdominal reinforcement So like an intramodomal pressure can be high, but not powerlifting psychotically high and I want this belt to be nice and thin Because I wanted to conform to my body. I don't want to have to be super uncomfortable and rigid bending over and stuff like that And they're like Sir, we don't even have a supply chain. What did I have the expertise to do this and I was like well Figure it out and they're like all right as they call it Versa grips and they're like can you guys make a belt and they're like What do you nuts and they're like please make a belt doctor mics here? She's pissed again. I think he's on steroids again In any case the Versa grips company has made the hyper belt and actually Jared Feather and I kind of helped design it a lot of it And you'll be able to buy it at some points. God. How do we tell people to go where to go? There's links on the screen and then the description. Tata Tata now if you can't get the discount code you can't get the Versa grips hypertrophy hyper belt then You can go to Starbucks and start yelling up people and I honestly recommend you do that in a fun and loving way I think in a way it's a little bit Bringing it down like I talked about either Raising to the bar or like kind of coddling yourself and making it seem like less of a thing If you bring it and you get serious you say okay the gym is full of guys who really get serious I'm gonna do it and I'm going or I'm gonna do these things which people said is the perfect way to do it and it's not you don't have to go that hard Or you don't have to do that much like things like that I feel is a lowering of the difficulty This is where pretend science and real science fork off. This is super important you guys There is an idea held by two groups of people that science based training is not as hard and shouldn't be as hard as Hashtag bro training or whatever regular real guy lumberjack who actually wins the Mr. Olympia training This idea of science training is way way easier lower volume less proximity to failure lower frequency the whole thing That idea is held by two groups of people one group of people is a small but notable Subsection of hashtag science based lifters that are doing exactly the things Sam Soil at Conchrist Williams and are talking about here's trying to hide from difficulty by pretending that science says Easy or training is better. I'm well into this group. I'm kidding sort The other group of people that think this are hashtag Bro split for life hashtag hardcore hashtag science and These people need to paint science based lifters into a corner of being pussies Because they like to pat themselves on the back for being hardcore warriors and since sometimes they have an intellectual and very Organ complex to science based lifters then they have to make sorts all sorts of Excusiness to themselves of why their shit is better So if I can't understand what science man is saying because I never really went to school for that long I'm gonna pretend science man doesn't train hard that'll make me feel nice the thing is Real actual science tells us what about hard a train and here we're gonna see a huge dissidence Real science in review after review after review says all other things being equal If you can recover go and closer to failure in each working set is gonna yield more hypertrophy than getting far from failure It also covers the fact that higher frequencies are almost better per muscle than lower frequencies You're probably gonna get bigger by steps training them twice a week then training them Let's say one so week Time and time again the amount of deloding that is needed for real world hypertrophy training is Usually much less than we actually think in study after study a deal at once every eight weeks or 12 weeks Accomplish as the task just fine and you do not need to deal it every three weeks or four weeks in most cases But it gets we're still quote unquote in the last little bit The amount of training volume per muscle per week like how many sets of quads? Do you need to train with to get the biggest quads you can is a number of the top end of which we have to get to reliably find and The top end of which sits almost certainly north of 40 working sets per week roughly to failure Every week for weeks on end to get your best muscular adaptations on a average per any given muscle if your whole system can recover from that sort of thing There have been multiple studies that show 30 sets of quad training is Better than 25 35 better than 30 40 Better than 35 and a few even that 45 to 50 sets is better than all the rest below Now that's what actual science says to sum it up really clearly Science says progressively burn yourself to the ground To test the very limits of your recovery and only when you start to get a little weaker and you can't keep up Do you deal load wash out the fatigue and go right back into scaling Mount Do you volume close to failure that's the reality of what science has said that is the sum of the summarization of science so far Oh, by the way Scott just to make a fine point of it So I science also tells us to get into deep stretches consistently and almost every lift we can which is a really uncomfortable right like It's the worst or what the To quote one of my friends would us down there in the deep squat that I need so badly that I'm going all the way down for it Do I get a house or some shit like if I get a free car like now? It's just a lot of pain and so that really is the state of the evidence State of the evidence is challenged the living kind of yourself way more than you thought was possible And if you recover and you're okay next time do it again accept a little bit more Science is shining the light of the training of the realities the most hardcore training shit that almost no one does is Actually the shit that grows you the most and a lot of people in the bro Community would like to pretend that that's not the case with science Composses all these doing these fancy exercises. Yeah, but what if the fancy exercise Who's a shit little force to the triceps for example and you have to do eight sets of it three times a week to get your best gain Not what you're gonna do your bro lift you're not gonna do that you're gonna you're gonna hang up your Mike men's Supposternal offense all jokes and you're gonna do one set every other five in days and whatever You're really pat yourself on the back because it's a really hard set You're really cried about your childhood. That's actually easier than doing at science centers So in reality true science based lifting is damn near the hardest to show you could do it's Unreasonably difficult check out the papers if you're interested But it's argued as an improvement of the efficiency It's nothing wrong with improving efficiency if you're running away from work on moral grounds and pretending to improve Infficiency that's bad, but in science you get both improved efficiency and the mandate to work even harder real science Not hashtag pop med bullshit, but for me. I'm looking at that as though like do you hate? Working out like if you hate working out then you want to retain where it's like one set of day Like the ideal well I guess the ideal would be zero sets Two things I'm gonna push back here There's a great point in here that trying to pretend science to do less a stupid however one set all out super hard Mike men sir like right well into the thick of the bro is shit in the world Go f***in hard brother Consented all the way to failure compound basic Ronnie Coleman during eights all that's the same subculture Pat's itself on the back for doing just a few sets Sam just by accident called them out that's not science based training Scott how many hashtag science based lifters have you seen advocate one set for a to failure or never ever? The bros often talk about f***in hard set one f***in heavy set one down set brother And then we change exercises or we leave it just doesn't take much you know you know your body Which they have a point there? Because when you get bigger and stronger recovery demands really start to sink, but the philosophies all kind of Ask backwards like in in their world. It's always there's a pill Sam you take steroids bro So do I man not accusatory we all into the pill the answer is all of the above we want it all I want to take the pill I want to train as efficiently as possible So I get the most growth per the smallest unit time But because I want to be the biggest I can be I also want to stack as many of those efficient training sessions as possible To get the sum total biggest stimulus I can recover from to get my most jacked We take the efficiency of science the quote unquote laziness of wanting a pill or an injection and the massive amount of hard work that comes with just providing a raw stimulus As science says I'm gonna combine those into a trifecta of doing efficient hard shit with drugs in the mix That's how you get to be the best that you can possibly be None of those are in contradiction with the other necessarily unless you actively saying now like a real Where it's you never have to work out again and this is where my bias could come in because it's not an objective Like I'm just adding to a conversation. I can't say anything completely objective But for my perspective like I like it in the gym if I work at took if I could do 20 sets and that was actually like pretty efficient and it worked That's what I would do but it's not because that's like I'm not chasing a maximum efficiency in a way. I'm half chasing like maximum enjoyment because I like I like to be in the gym It's a really good point You want to make sure that the gym is a place you come back to but you fundamentally even though it's tough sometimes Enjoy being at that's how you get number one results. You just keep coming back But just give this a little bit of thought One of the reasons long term you keep coming back is that you find that your work in the gym is Efectural it is yielded results for you that you're really like and they're still escalating now the ability to change your body and to something that you want to see it Look like Do so dependably do so safely and do it with a trust worthy system that you're always modifying a little bit But like with the RPI purchase FIAP for example, you either what I use I go in there It's got all my exercises all my reps already pre-programmed for me I just hit when I need to hit adjust on the margins log my shit that system gives me this like super warm fuzzy feeling that like I'm doing the more or less the right shit when I go to the gym multiply that by results I'm in see I've enjoyed them An efficient and effective system you trust and that leads to results those are the three things you need in the gym Once you get all three your you can go old and now there's ways to just get not all three You can enjoy going to the gym you can not have a dependable system you can still get results No problem But if you're more advanced if you're genetics on grade if you run into an injury or irritation that lack of dependable system Means you don't get the results that means the results go not so great and then you go searching for a dependable system like the RPI Perchography app many other great ways to train out there in order with which to at least Probabilistically guarantee yourself some decent results find out how your body works and adjust from there Of course if you don't like the gym at all You might not be showing up however if you have some grit you have a dependable system You don't really like the gym Getting the results might actually make you like the gym because you start associating it as a place where you succeed and you love the success And then you grow into liking gym what I don't want you guys to do is Love the gym Again in their and do call especially stuff you enjoy a lot at the expense of your results think about it this way What I'm going to do with the gym is this big circle is big universe of All the stuff that works really well, right and I'm going to take my little circle of what I'm going to do And I'm going to circle it around the stuff that's in this big works really well circle But I'm going to circle around the part that I like and sometimes might my likes shift I like low reps right now a few months later I like high reps a few months later I like my reps a few months later I like super high volume blah blah blah blah blah But it's all within the what is effectual that's totally cool Absolutely pick what you like out of what probably works according to science and experience that big circle When I don't want you guys to do or suggest you try not to do because this is going to be a failure point Is you have the stuff of what's effective and you're looked to the right of it and you're like what I What I like to do is right here it's out of what's the most effective? Both-soup ball band nonsense bullshit and you go I'm going to do that But remember are you in the gym to just do what you like? No It should be what you like but it's not just what you like because you could have stayed home and and consumed a Deleterodica over audio book Emily was tied up squealing like a piglet The William was urinating all over her face Wait, yeah, you could do that and all kinds of other fun things in the gym with their number one for effectiveness Stay with what's effective by science and your own intuition and then you can vary the stuff in there and absolutely do what you like But if you what you like is outside of what's effective. Ah, man the gyms probably just not the place for that Anyway, folks, I've been Dr. Mike and I'll see you guys Next time All right, that was fun guys if you're interested in more fun. Maybe you're having too much time to chill out or you click on this video and have even more fun Bye

For you, you gotta be in the army. What? Yeah. Folks, when you post that Instagram, make sure you're not really off of cocaine when you do it. Hey everybody, I am Dr. Mike Isertel. I am an exercise and sport physiologist. That's a fancy title. I'm a professor of sports science at Lehman College in the Bronx in New York City. And I am a co-founder of Renaissance Pre-Dization in New York here on our channel. And we do sports science here. And we are going to look at some videos of various tick tockers and famous people working out. We're going to try to analyze them, chair to bleed, but honestly, let's take a look. Mr. Bradley Martin, who is supposed to be very, very strong and athletic. He has one to this is about 495 pounds, five plate power row, no belt just pure depression. Power row, what's that? So, I would file Mr. Bradley Martin under just fucking strong shit, but I would file this exercise under pure nonsense. I don't know what it trains. I don't know what it accomplishes. It is not a power movement. Power clean would be a good idea. I don't know why someone would do this outside of very specific sports context. Or just you want to fuck around a lot and put yourself in a greater risk of injury for tearing your bicep or some shit like that. TPH man, with all due respect, I just wouldn't do this. And ego trophy comments, no reps were done, love you though, Bradley. I gotta say, if I were Bradley Martin, I would be fucking furious at that comment. I hate it. When people think they're compliment sandwiching you and they just say some nasty shit like zero reps, bro. And then they're like, love you though, like fuck you. You don't know who the fuck I am, you don't love me. Get out of my face. But here I am talking shit about Bradley, so maybe I'm the same person. Although I guess I'm not saying I love his, his strong and jacked. That is objective. What the fuck is he saying? Marx says, God did, stay prayed up, heart symbol, at perform inspired, but the app is separated from performance by it, so it's actually not a tag that length it works. Folks, when you post an Instagram, make sure you're not really off of cocaine. What are you doing? Shit you say, may make sense to nobody. His technique here is good. I'd say I'd like to see a bit more eccentric control from these Nordic curls, that is the only point of the exercise. Why is Mark wearing white gloves? On that Michael Jackson workout, I guess. I will say that he doesn't age. This could have been posted in 1988 and he would look the same. Technique could use some work, Mr. Mark Wallberg, all love and respect. Just me shoot the bullshit. Ben Bruno training, I've heard of this person. He says, give this supported Singalegg RDL a try. Great for the glutes, hamstrings and adductors. At Chelsea Handler is using a 53-pound weight here, which is super impressive, and shows that she has a great balance of strength and mobility. Those are not mutually exclusive, by the way. I asked Chelsea for a testimonial for my new website in She-Rot. I was always worried about getting too big with weight training. The opposite has happened. I'm leaner and tighter than I was. It might 20's. That's really nice. I mean, yet technically speaking, it's a single leg RDL, and you get to balance. You're either a leg on a bench. I would say that putting your leg really far away from you on a bench really far away. Needlessly destabilizes the exercise. If you do these with what's called a B stance, you could probably get more out of it. But she seems like she's got the balance to make it. Do pretty good stuff. The number of reps in reserve for that exercise seems to be approximately infinity. I wouldn't call this hard training. These sets here may be they were a warm-up, but this is a warm-up. Which means she's really strong and can really kick it. So I'd love to see her do actual RDLs and not single legs. And just get like preposterous, and she probably get way better results in less time. People, I think, say Ben Bruno knows what he's doing, and I think this is just a fine exercise. But yeah. Okay, we've got the rock doing belt squat. We're going to do a belt squat with a ton of plates, all the plates at the gym. And the caption says, got a late one in at the Sanctuary tonight, Sunday wheels, leg night. That's a lot of saying the same thing three times. Four rounds of giant sets, non-stop, leg press, vertical leg press, chain lunges, finishing with pit-shark sumo squats with three second negatives, fun pain. So these are very small range of motion. They probably do okay at training the adductors, the inner thigh. Certainly not the quads. Maybe a little bit of glutes. Good slapping there. The rock is so jacked, I got. I think the rock is like the ideal man and everyone else is just a shitty copy of the rock myself included. But that is not the best technique. I would love to see the rock use about half that weight. Plus, get his feet a little bit closer together, stay upright and sink down like three-they lower. That would torch his legs, a ton. But hold on, I'm simply an expert exercise in sports scientist. Let's see what the comments have to say to really find out, oh, he's training to beat paper. Meanwhile, scissors is an adungeon gym. Headphones in hoodie up come and after all these mob fuckers. Wait, the rock, starting out for women what would you recommend? Man, let me tell you something that may seem condescending. And it is the probability of the rock answering your question. Out of the, let's see how many comments, 24,000 comments. Just his TikTok. He also has an Instagram that's even bigger is infinitesimally small if he responded to any exercise science questions. But I'm inclined to believe he just doesn't respond to anything at all for the most part. You could probably just go, let's shit. God damn. Steven Sagaal shows how to fight two men at the same time. I've been with two men at the same time, but it wouldn't call what we were doing fighting. And the best part is TikTok auto labeled this video to say, the actions in this video are performed by professionals or supervised by professionals do not attempt. And the question is precisely what actions are those? These are not fighting professionals. They're like gymnastics professionals. What in the ever loving God is this? It is not fighting. This is Hollywood. I do have to say, wag the dog a little bit. I am a brown belt in Brazilian Jitsu in my spare time. I do know how to fight a little bit. And none of this is real. Nobody fights like this. What I would love to see is a video of a decent high school wrestler. Ways like a hundred and thirty pounds. Just running in there and spear double-legging Steven Sagaal into a coma fuck. This is a very cooperative engagement. And for all of the bad stuff I'm saying, Steven Sagaal has my permanent everlasting respect for being himself. And what true fest beings have labeled as perhaps the second best actor of all time. Arnold Schwarzenegger being the first of course. Next video is on the Instagram and it is of Mr. Shikilo Niel. Oh my, and he's shirtless. Oh, hit in that X pose. A little bit of another set up to oppose. No real poses hit yet folks. Oh, and the first side chest. Not terribly well executed, I might add. What else we got, Shaq. Show us some love here. Front, lat spread impressive. And nodding at the camera. My god. Rear doubled by sap. Oh, he's about to hit us with that lat spread. Boom. Done. He actually has really big traps. Colour me impressed. Oh no, an ab and thigh. Woof. I love it. Classic poses. Shaq's really got it all. Hold it crap. This is a whole posing routine. You can step on stage with this. This is just pure art. Big daltz, big packs, little pack bounce. Shaq's the man. Shaq is a model human being and currently my best bodybuilder after seeing that posing routine. Celebrities. Troll the descent. Full range of motion. Good technique and the weights will come. You can't a person to run your socials for you for the love of God. The at symbol has to be connected to the words for us to be able to click. If I was that fitness company and had a contract with Mr. Wallberg that he was going to mention me every now and again. And that is not a mention. That does not count towards the contract. We'll see you guys next time. Buck. You feel like marker. You okay, bro? There's nothing I can do. There's nothing I can do. There's nothing I can do.

Folks, I'm Dr. Mike and I don't know anything about warfare, but these guys do. This is Vernon, this is DJ and they get people ready for their best shape ever in special operations tactics, equipment, and physical fitness. I'm gonna take the physical fitness test today to see how dog shit I am at this. Thank God somebody defending America, not me. She did hard to f**k. Every event here is based off of three tiers, we're trying to develop a well-rounded tactical professional. We will have the first one which is our minimum standard is what we think. If you are on a SWAT team military, things that you should absolutely be able to check the box on and hopefully be able to maintain those for as long as possible. And then we also want to constantly be pushing that needle a little bit further. So we're pushing that to our lead, which is our second level, and then we would call our B-approach. Which is what we are seeking here at the G-DRAF Performance Program and what we're pushing for is constantly maintaining that B-approach status. And being able to maintain that for as long as possible when it comes to operators and guys that I've worked with, it's not just getting them into the game, it's keeping them in the game as long as possible and being able to maintain that level of physical fitness. That's 70%. Well then, well then. All right, so that was like nice and easy. Okay, absolutely. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I respect it. So the first test in our performance standards is a broad jump. The standard here is going for height and they were going plus 12 and plus 12 for B-approach. The whole point of this is covering ground horizontally, accelerating with a good shin angle, sprinting, moving around a room, CQB, being dynamic, and also the mobility effect of landing in the hips, being able to land into our feet, maintaining the arch of our foot, just a good expression of power, and it's something that anyone can do. You don't need a vertex to check or something, just a horizontal expression of power. Can I take a couple more? Absolutely, absolutely. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. Find some ribbon, use your arms. You got to stick our landing so I can measure it off your, for me, throw your arms, place your feet. We do have to stick that landing so we can measure it though. There's a flatestism requirement for that. All right, big guy. Aggressive, aggressive, big launch, big launch, violent arms. So it's down, so it's down, by your shin. Which feet there? Which feet there? Better, better, better. You've got to stick in my guy. It's just because the four momentum keeps going, I guess. Big low. There you go. Five four. Big arms swing, low, big! Nine four. Did you have a nine four? I might got a five four. I'll get that standard. Ooh, there you go. There we go. There we go. Then that five, five nine. Minimum standard. That was a very unathetic five nine, but I'll give it to you. That was five nine, number less. That was five nine, number less. So Mike did hit it. Five. Barely. Barely. What we got here is for the trap art dealer. We're going to go for five reps. The minimum is 1.5 times our body weight for five reps. At least going to be 1.75 times our body weight for five reps. And then B approach the wall, A and E four here is two times our body weight for five reps. Like how do you feel like this will come? About this one, that good bro. I'm saying I had a tube, like, you're still here, you feel me, but you know what I'm saying? If you're like, you can hear your pulse. Just pulseing. Two times, two times. Two times. Salin, a wonder. Why'd you self-in? Push. Push hits. Push hits. There you go. Two more. All hits. Hmm. Great sent in guy. Mike looks pretty strong. How do you think he's going to fare on this wall? I'm not too unconfident here. I think he might do well. This is enough traditional strength. We should be okay, but who knows? Put your body weight at Mike. About 240 on the scales. Okay. Yeah. It's all real too. You know what I'm saying? Four. Or he's at 240. So we're at 4. 4. 80. 360. Minimum. Minimum. Okay. Stop and start. Touch and go. Touch and go. To balance just for safety reasons, but control it. And back right back up. Yeesh. It's at rocket science. Hit. There we go, Mike. There we go. So we get fun of us. Hit the brakes where we get to the top. Is this what I did? Yes. So I'm going to trap our deadlift. DJ hit it for two times. His body weight for five reps. Executed and well. Could have won a little bit more. We're going to save some for the rest of the test. Mike, I think you hit 1.5. His body weight. I think it was around 360 with this current body weight. With the worries I took out. Honestly, a little bit better than I thought. So hopefully we can keep this going throughout the rest of the test. I look pretty easy. It's weird. I haven't haven't deadlifted in like maybe eight years or something. That was a trip. Really? Oh yeah. I purposely don't deadlift in our low back injuries. No, it's not that I'm going to be doing this in the fatigue, isn't it? Yeah. But if I could deadlift, I would die with do more. It's what I'm trying to say. Performance. Plast excuses. Plus what I could have done on my best day, I'm a f***ing athlete, maybe brother. You remember that? Whatever you said. Next we've probably got the most traditional movement when it comes to the military training. I pull up. The shoulder joint is a joint of punishment and a tactical population, whether it's come all the time. We spent in the front leaning rest position, holding something overhead, holding a dead bar pull-up bar. So just being able to be functional overhead, good movement of the scabs, good grip, good form, strength, all those extended long positions. Our minimum here is going to be 10 pull-ups. Our lead's going to be 15 and be a pros going to be 20. We're looking for eyes above the bar and a good descent all the way down to the bottom. All right DJ, I'll start. Let me get you. 13. 14. 15. Good rhythm. 16. Yes. 17. 18. 18. And what? 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 15. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. I used to be upset that I was not tall, but then I realized my dick was concomitantly short. So no big deal. It's all proportional. 20. OK. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 20. 30. There we go. Oh, oh. There we go, Mike. Five. There we go. Six. You do. Seven. Eight. Nine. Get it? Ten. All the good. Nice, dude. It's all that I thought. Nine. Six. You don't do a pull-up softening all the time. OK. I do them more or less like that. Yeah. Like a two-secondary centric in a dead-hame. Yeah. It's all for aesthetics. Which is important. Huge. I mean, aesthetics matter, like presence matters. When someone walks into a room, especially in tactical profession, like it would de-escalate a situation when someone walks in in a uniform, and they look like they're capable of doing something. Versus someone that's not and everyone's like, oh, I don't feel comfortable now. And we joke all the time. Like if there was a fire in my house and firefighter showed up, and they were jacked. I'm like, yes, my dogs upstairs. Yeah. Versus someone that's like pulling up their pants and walking in the house, and it's like, oh my god, maybe I should go back in my house. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. You run in Coleman's car. You imagine that dude pulling you over? Like some registration. Uh-huh. Yes, sir. You have to be running Coleman. But I mean, you see some of these dudes. We got him in Virginia Beach. Like you see him on the side of the road, you know, pulling somebody over. Like, oh, you better hope you don't piss. I do it. Oh, yeah. Yeah. He looks like Bingo. Ronnie is on record saying he was looking to fight people as a cop. And it never happened. He said it never happened. Because every time he would show up, everyone was like, ah. Yeah. I can't see him. I don't know what I'm going to do. Yeah. Just finished the pull-ups. My kit 10. That is our minimum there. Uh, 10 is a minimum for standard. 15's elite. 20's be a pro. DJ hit 22 at a couple in the tank. But we still got Ben's press. We still got farmers carries. We still got a one ahead of us. Next we're going to the farmers. Wake carry for body weight. We're going for distance here. Not only is this loading. Our posture, our position, our grip, our stance, all the things we build on here. GBRS when it comes to building a good tactical profession. But also being able to carry that weight for us to stay in distance, often with operators or people that are in the tactical profession. You're not doing something fresh. We're doing something under fatigue. So being able to support that position for long durations of time. If we're carrying a gurney, carrying a body, carrying someone, a long period of distance. For our minimum here, we're going 175 feet of body weight. Or elite is going to be 225. And then be approaching to be 250 for distance. There is no technique. It's not a time base. Just pick that amount of grip and walk. Or you can see the rubber. Still. But I will say the slow you walked the harder it is. Yeah, 100 percent. One you guys, same time, same time. So you can compare you to why not. One. That's it. Safe we up. Let's go. Block it in, lock it in. Good strong posture, nice and tall, nice and tall. Lock it in, lock it in, lock it in. Finish through, finish through. Just up mic. More, more, more. Let's go DJ. Add a boy. Reset. Yeah. Well done. Thank you so much. Most importantly formed in look too bad there. Stayed confidence, stay tall, no issues. My kid, the standard 175 feet body weight. DJ finished up a little bit further. Be a pro. Now they have the great task of bringing them back. Are we holding up in this? A life, but barely. I was supposed to be a run outside. Her 800 meters. Now, around here, Merrick and Brother, we don't count in communist units. We're... Pretty standard and a selection is having a horizontal press. I think very common in military selections. Pushups, very endurance focused. Obviously horizontal pressing. We also want to be able to meet something. And we want to program a training standard that we can replicate in the gym. So we're not just training for a test. We're also doing something that we're doing 52 times a year. So we chose to bench press, proximal stability, really willing to match stability of the bench. Press something away from us. That is combatives being able to create tension, drive something away from us, that anterior power. We're going to go with body weight here. Our minimums going to be 10 reps. A lead's going to be 15 and be a pro's or a lead's in for 20 reps in body weight. Good, call the. The chest should be super warm up. That is just for help. Wow. Oh, you want excuses. You can't just do an excuse afterwards. Some of them, I just think you were lying. Do you need to shoot before and during and after. So let's see before I just worked out. I just have to go really, really hard life, you know. And no one walks around with as much emotional pain like I do. I mean, I take that every bit of the lift. Let's get one more going. My elbows. Up. So we'll see you later for more excuses. Let's go DJ. Lock it in. Go. Two. Three. Four. Five. Six. Seven stay in that rhythm eight. Nine. Ten. Meet the ball. Drive 11. Twelve. Thirteen. Fourteen. Fifteen. Fifteen. Fifteen. Fifteen. Fifteen. Fifteen. Fifteen. Fifteen. Fifteen. Fifteen. Fifteen. Yep. Then the shot. Twenty. Yeah, one more. Twenty one. Oh my man. You know, two dollars. Yep. Good to show. And all right. Put you up. Yeah. This is the guy. God damn. This is a excuses. Yeah, like excuses are like a currency except I'm like some Bobway. I'm pretty much shit off and they've eaten. Scott, what fraction of the day are we out here? Twenty five eight. Twenty five eight. Twenty five eight. Ten reps minimum. Fifteen. Fifteen. No. Twenty. So yeah, three or four. Like if I was really trying to try and shit, you'd more just pull the cork off. I bet just like, I'm out. I'm gonna come myself too much side like nine thousand. For how many reps? You can't count that high. I can't you, pal. Two. There we go. Back. We're doing clusters. Are you want to like? Was that it? Was that it? Like does that? Does that's a can of if I do it in cluster? No, no, no, no. No. All right, now I ask promised. Excuse time. I already used a few, but I remember them. So new ways. Like again. Full of screparations that you're trying to whack. But I don't even know anything. Yes. Also, I just had surgery here. Like drive. I can't use it. And to be honest, like, I'm just in a point, like emotionally. We're like my ego is like pretty good. I just like don't need to back up. So that's three. And a surprising turn of events. These I hit 22 as expected and my kid too. So didn't expect that, expected a little bit more hands on a bar. But you know what we're here to be surprised. You know, we're here is a moment where enjoying it, we're experiencing this together. And we're all having fun. So we started with like these are serious life and death standards. An operators via pro and we're down to like, hey man, everyone has their own spirit journey. You know what I'm saying? Get that. Okay. Okay. Hey, mental health. Mental health is a big thing. You know, mental health awareness. I'm not trying to, I'm not trying to have you leave here with mental scar tissue to last forever. You know what I'm saying? I also have a lot of physical scar tissue. We want to leave you good pat on the button and have a good day. You know, send you home with some balloons. Stand low there. The last time I had a head of the butt and balloons were involved. It was a clown also. And my second try to trust us, I just keep bringing them out. That's a weird process. They had exam, but it was highly effective. From the next test, we wanted to go with a body weight standard for core. We tossed around a lot of ideas of sit ups, hanging from a bar, he'll clicks above. But the army did that quite a bit. So just trying to find an exercise that's familiar with the tactical population, that's something they can program on their own. They can provide a progressive stimulus to with time or weight. So it just made sense. So when I reckon on the lower back with our head flexors, with the traditional tests of like sit ups and flutter kicks, for here the minimum is going to be two minutes, a lead's going to be two minutes, 30 seconds, be a pros going to be three minutes. What were aiming for? Because watch out to get more, too. I haven't yet. I saw a guy watching another play next. I mean, he was a gig when his ass got injured. So not as funny as it used to be because they definitely cleaned up the language. It's not a family movement at all. What? I mean, they still have some, but it's not. What is in jelly medicine? It's not heavy. You're a lot more. What movie was it that I just saw that had like a warning. I'll throw it at it. What do you want? They had like a warning now for movies that from the 90's, like some of these jokes maybe highly offensive. You're like, what? Two minutes. I'm going to do a for both of us, man. Don't I know a play for me? Rest with me, guys. This is my kid two minutes, which is our standard DJ. I want a little bit further, be a pro, three minutes. I thought that was going to happen. Ready? Time starts. Now! Next we got the 800 meter run. We wanted to have an aerobic event. More capacity focused. We spend a lot of time sprinting whether it's short durations. Those 40, 50, 60 intermediate sprints opening up to those 400 meters. We also want to have an opacity moment. So that's what we want the 800 meter run. It's also pretty standard with SWAT testing. Minimum standard here's going to be three minutes 15 seconds for 800 meters. A lead's going to be three and then be opposing the anything under two minutes and 45 seconds. Really taking the slow and steady thing serious, huh? This is fast for me. Run against the wind. They were running against the wind. Scott, you didn't got to work. My shins are gone. Ha ha ha ha. This hat makes them look like the empire here. That's sort of hat. You can run in a lot faster with as much wind as getting on that thing. Five, there's a total left calf. The other one. Yep. No split. 30 feet. Yeah, that's all. 30 feet. They're like my Kiwi spot. Shit. It's trippy. I'm barely out of breath. But my calves are done. My shins are done. I mean, just repetitive motion, repetitive motion. I just don't ever run. Yeah. Luckily, the grappling and shit has my cardio, okay? Yeah. It's not my f-ing legs, or like, uh, sorry. Let me do the racially appropriate thing. My legs are fine. Aye. Just wrapped up the 800 meter run, DJ ran it in 242, which is that B-upro level. Mike came in at a blistering. Five minutes and 30 seconds. I mean, you should have seen the wind just blowing through his hair. It was amazing. Um, but great test. Wrap it up strong. A lot better than I thought it would be. But glad DJ wrapped it up set the set the table set the standard. Be a pro at everything. Mike pretty consistent along the way. We knew the run was going to be a thing. But he's healthy. No injuries. Wait. It's not been thinking about this, uh, battery of test you guys have, kind of a sports science perspective. I think it's, uh, very innovative. I think it is very much the standard that you want to be shooting for. Because a lot of standards are just carry over physical fitness standards from way back in the 60s or some shit. Yeah. Back when our understanding wasn't as specific to the task as it could have been. And so you get this like what five mile run and a bunch of push ups. And that's cool. That means a generally good shape. But a lot of the situations run into and, and, uh, tactical pursuits, moving a heavy object out of the way. Someone goes down. You have to pick them up and run out with them. Breaking doors down, putting hands on people. That limit strength, which is very well tested by the rep's of bench, pull ups and stuff, explosiveness with broad jump, athleticism with broad jump, which I illustrated, I think, excellently today. Myself or fine may say so myself. And I just did. I gave myself permission. Yeah, you did. And so I think it's just, uh, it's excellent that you guys are in the space, promoting a logical standard. And you guys all have a combat experience to go with it, which is, you know, because if I make, make beliefs and ship, it even makes sense. No one's going to believe me as well. They shouldn't. Guys, G-Barris is absolutely the gold standard. If you are in the coastal Virginia area, look at them up. And, uh, a really good idea is find out where they live. It just bust through the door in the middle of the night. They're never armed. They don't shoot on site. They'll be fine. See you guys next time. Yeah. Yeah.

You are a good person, but you have one fatal flaw. Your quads are small, but we're gonna fix it. Because I have five favorite quattaccharisis, I'm gonna share with you just like a venereal that what? Let's go do this. Folks, exercise number one. By the way, aren't in order of effects, they're all awesome. Exercise number one is the high bar squat. First of all, what the hell is the high bar squat? It is a deep squat. Done almost exactly like a Olympic weight lifters do the squat. The bar sits very high on your shoulders, really close to your neck. You're gonna pinch your shoulder blades back, keep your chest elevated the entire time. Your foot stance is really up to you. You're gonna push your feet out properly at about a 45 degree angle, plus or minus, however, as a comfy. You're gonna take a roughly shoulder width stance, though a little bit wider or narrower, based on preference totally fine. Staying completely upright, keeping the pressure on your toes and heels at the same time. You are gonna descend by letting your knees come way over your toes and out. Is this gonna hurt you? No, it's gonna give you enormous quads and strong resilient knees. How deep should you go? As long as your lower back isn't question mark rounded or you're not really far off on your toes and off of your heels, you want to go as deep as possible for two very good reasons. One is that the more you stretch the quads at a high tension, the more they grow. And two, the more mobility you can develop from this exercise, the less probability of injury you'll have in a bunch of daily tasks. And if you're into that sort of thing, it's gonna make you better at sports. But there's one 1,000% super huge thing. Most people won't tell you about the high bar squat, which is to me the biggest unlock. It's gonna put literal hair on your chest. Making your grown man unless you're female. And then it'll get you as the kids say, peached completely out of your mind. As you can probably tell, I was heavily bullied as a child. One of the mean words people called me was a scissy. Mike, you're a scissy they would say and I took them literally. So I began to get jacked quads by doing our next exercise that I love. These scissy squat. I'm sure there's a no-man-claidural reason. Why it's called that? The scissy squat is brutal especially if you do it with the appropriate machine. You can 100% do this just with some kind of device for you to hold on just at their ground. Absolutely. But with a machine you can get that extra super deep stretch. You're gonna say as upright as you possibly can, you're chest pointed to the sky. You're hips all the way through. You're gonna go down really slowly as the pad rotates for you. And you're gonna get your knees forward and down is deep as possible under control. Then you're gonna spend one or two seconds at the bottom every single time milking that deep stretch at the highest point of tension. And then coming all the way back up, you should do this, stabilize on a power rack or Smith machine or something else you could hold on to. Like maybe the hand? Of a good friend. Guys this exercise might look easy but it is actually incredibly tough. It is what the leg extension, according to Scott the video guy, was supposed to be. Maximum tension at the deep stretch. Minimum tension at the top, matching the forescarf that you want for the ultimate high hypertrophy. So next time people call you as Sissy, you say, well six, six and stones can break my bones but I can always turn out to be an adult and plot to kill you whenever the f*** never forgot middle school mother f***ers. If you try this exercise and it's it can possibly difficult, don't you worry. A lot of this is just neural learning. There's a technique to it. Every rep every set is gonna be easier. If you get to be a really strong king or queen, you can always put on a belt just like for dips or pull-ups, put weight on that mug and hit it. And the last recommendation I have is don't come all the way up, walk out, to get that rest. Keep them in tablomites, frying you by coming up only two thirds of the way and coming right back down, slow on the way down, big pause, controlled on the way up. This is money, times whatever rich people, big lot of money. Yeah that's what it is. Just like with my many butlers, I don't play favorites. So exercise number three isn't my third favorite, but it's absolutely in that tied for first. The hacksquat. The hacksquat requires of course hacksquat, she. But it is a very, very awesome exercise, especially if done right. Many of these exercises are done better for higher repetitions. High bar squats can be done for sets of five to ten very, pretty actively and so can hacksquats, but they're adaptable because they can also be done for high reps. The thing with the hacksquat that you want to make sure to get the best is you want to bring your heels as far back down on the platform to your butt as you can. Until they're almost starting to lift the bottom. That way you can still get tons of pressure off your heels, generate a ton of force, recruit the biggest fast-witch motor units in your quads and that's the most muscle, but at the same time, get the biggest bend in your knee and thus put the most stretch under load onto the quads. This is going to be a downside though because you can no longer put 18 plates per side, but really strong hacksquat, but a huge quads is going to use three, four, maybe five plates per side. If you can do six plates per side for sets and reps, you might be a humongous, humongous quad in individual, somebody like Joe Sullivan, who is an all-time world record squat holder and really only needs six and change plates for his quads. So the hacksquat is awesome, take your time on the descent, spend about a second or two in the hole, you can come all the way up to breathe, especially if you like doing my reps, or you can come up only two thirds the way and then back. I would say it's not a big deal, but maybe have someone hang around or two people hang around your hacksquat on the really tough sets, so they can drag your dumbass out of the machine when you're not only throttle, fail, and almost die. To make your hacksquat a more fun and actually more effective, there are two pieces of equipment you might be interested in. One is the weight lifting belt. Any kind of belt will do, I prefer to get my belts off from the pioneer belt company, is there great? And you put that belt on nice and tight, not so tight that you can't breathe the ton, but it'll really, really firm up your waist, generate a ton of intrametal pressure and let you feel stronger during that movement. Weight lifting shoes also help a lot. They have a heel, they're very sturdy, and they can let you really push that heel and really get your quads going. I forgot that weight lifting shoes were a huge asset on this, and then Scott the video guy reminded me, so I yelled at him, you do your job, I'll do mine, and I stole his idea, gave him zero credit. Sounds like he didn't even credit, but I'm not because it's credit for nothing. Do you understand me, Scott? Exercise number four is going to be the leg press. Well, I press isn't awesome quad at your size, but most leg presses just aren't that good. We do have an opposition for the demonstration purposes. It was video, the arsenal leg press, which is goded, yes that does mean, is ethically sourced, made entirely of goats. You don't happen to have one of these, you can use some modifiers which we will show in this video. Big modifier is wearing weight lifting shoes. They give you a heel and a lot of it go nice and deep. Most leg presses around your back before that happens. The other modifier you might want to use is put some padding. Could be a foam mat, could be a roller, could be something underneath your lower back as low on that pad as it goes. That means you're going to be able to lean back further. You're going to open up more range of motion at your knees and you're going to be able to go deeper. As long as you have your feet as low on a platform as possible, such that your heels are still touching, you're good to go. And in the leg press, you could do the mirror, you could do the medium, you could do them wide. When you do the wider, just make sure to point your toes out even further. That's going to hit your addoctors a ton and still hit your quads like crazy. One of the tips I have for the leg press especially if you're a mobile of flexible king or queen is to try to have your tummy out, your chest up, and try to get your knees to get outside of your chest and tummy to hypothetically, theoretically, potentially aim to touch your shoulders. What? How's that possible? I'm not sure. But if you manage to do it, you're going to have enormous quads. All right, folks. Our last exercise for today in my top five most favorite currently at this time in my life, quad exercise is the belt squat. You need a belt squat to the belt squat. Now, you can rig a belt squat by putting a dip belt on and put some platforms up and doing some stuff like that. Good luck. The belt squat is an excellent excellent tool. What you want to do is make sure that if the belt squat doesn't feel super hard at the bottom and easy at the top, you want to put some mats underneath your feet if you have access to them to get that lever point up. So the very bottom is where that squat is going to be the hardest. We're going to plug your belt in. You don't need a ton of weight for this and you want to come up every time to about two thirds of the way and come back down that keeps the tension on the quads, racks up the metabolites in your legs and it really cooks the little block out of you in the best way possible, of course. The other thing with this is you can take advantage of the fact that because the belt is on your hips and it doesn't compress your spine, it doesn't fatigue you a ton just to lock out with the weight and weight a little while. And because it's annoying to plug yourself in and out of the machine all the time, you can capitalize by doing either my reps or my rep match. So here's how I would do the exercise. Put on a weight that you can do for about 15 to 20 reps. Do a straight set of that weight, two thirds to the weight of lock out every single time. Rack, let's say it's 18 reps right at down in your notebook, put it into your RPI-perture-fiat. The RP-hyperture-fiat removes all uncertainty and makes the training process precisely defined. Choose your pre-made workout plan from dozens available in the app, plug in your weights and the app takes care of the rest for months of productive training. Ready? Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. The next set and the set after that, you're going to hit 18 both times, which you won't be able to on a straight set because it'll be too tired. As soon as you hit, let's say 14 on that second set, you're going to lock out completely and you're going to rest five to ten seconds. As soon as you're about ready to go again, you're going to hit it again and finish the other four repetitions that you didn't have. This is going to just pump a crap load of fluid into your legs. It is going to destroy in the best way possible. And we're going to take Max the editor boy, make him suffer through real my rep set just for your viewing pleasure. Isn't it nice that you get to pay nothing and watch other people suffer on YouTube? Thanks YouTube. One more and then lock out. Rest. Breathe, no pressure, Max. Nice and easy. What you can do if you're really pressed for time in the situation is you can actually just do one set and have an amazing quad workout, especially if you train quadzic twice a week. I know it sounds crazy but one set of quadz actually can work. You may be in the machine for like five minutes but hey five minutes and your quadzard on? Man, what a huge, huge benefit time wise. So what we're going to do is we're going to plug Max in. He's just going to be a 45 on each side. He's going to do a ton of reps almost as many as he can. Two thirds lock out so I won't be that many. He's going to rest a little bit and he's going to go rest go, rest go. We are going to rack up the reps until Max is just not interested being alive anymore but then he'll be really interested in being alive because he's going to have enormous of being juicy hot dog overcooked quads. Move. Up. Well, you're good you're good to stay there. Let it burn. Let it burn. It's part of the process. Part of the process. Go. Rest of going anywhere. Good stuff, Max. Good stuff, Max. Two control slow slow. Weight up. Again slow slow. Weight up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Rest free. Very good. Nice and easy. Got unloaded. This is grandma shit down. Down, slow, ha, good stop. Up. Down, ultra slow, slow, slow, slow, slow, wait. Up, go max, go, come on. Rest, breathe, don't go anywhere. Good stuff, you can move your feet around a little bit, wiggle and round a little bit, go. Up, up. Up. Rest, don't go anywhere. Back into the position, back into the position. One, go. Slow, slow, slow, slow, slow, wait. Rest, breathe, eight second eccentric, slow. Slow, slow, slow, slower. Up, wait, wait, wait. Up, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, up, up, up, up, up, up, up, up. That's it, you're done. That is full muscular failure. Free yourself. Good stuff, man. That's like, you know, 30 reps or some shit. Max, what do you say, a few more sets? No. We got it. Got it, no. Try to jump as high as you can. It's like basketball camp all over again. It was so good. Two things. Get you some surfer boy here, like max the editor boy, and get you some big ass quads like max the editor boy. If you want to save time, you got to realize you're going to take the debit card to pain. You're going to pay it off somehow. Remember that one movie with Justin Timberlake and that one finance bitch, really the currency was time instead of money. Well, that movie was awful and had terrible morality, but that one girl get it. That's all I got, max the editor boy, the man, Scott's a better guy, the man. You guys are also, quote really, the man, and we'll see you next time. I'm W. Oh, my way to you. Good at what I do. Oh, and W.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Predensation and I have a message if you want to be as lean as possible You should only do your cardio when you're fasted Wait, no, that's wrong. It's actually BS looked it Take a quick look into why The rationale for fasted cardio in a certain sense actually makes a lot of sense So let's cut it some slack If you wake up you have some black coffee or whatever you go do cardio There's nothing in your stomach. There's nothing in your bloodstream from your gastrointestinal tract You're burning a lot of just straight body fat to get that done totally if instead You ate food You would be burning some of your body fat stores, but also you'd be burning a lot of the food that you just ate Especially towards the tail end of that cardio when the food starts to really adjust and some people eat breakfast Do whatever work and then our two later if they'll like go do cardio. Wow, yeah, it's a lot of like food you're burning And why would you burn food if you could just burn body fat and stat so fast of cardio logic seems to make sense But Direct research shows that there's a teeny tiny difference and we don't even know which way it goes Usually at favors fasted cardio by like some infinitesimally small uh Barely statistically detectable difference so it turns out fed state cardio where you eat a meal Wait a while they go to cardio that in the real world versus fasted cardio causes almost the same amount of fat loss Like how how could that possibly be if we're burning food in one for the most part and burning body fat the other for the most part Well, here's the thing If you eat some food and then you burn up some of it during cardio That's food that's not available in your bloodstream to get stored into fat stores That's food that's not available in the bloodstream to power energy for daily tasks later So where are you going to get that energy is your fat cells? So it turns out that as long as the calories between those two conditions of fed state cardio and fasted cardio are equated 2000 calories 500 calorie deficit in each one of those you really end up over the course of the day Burning roughly the same amount of body fat whether or not it's fasted or fed To that end How do you decide if you want to do fasted cardio or fed state cardio and there's a really an easy decision making process How Hungry are you versus how much energy do you need to do cardio if you notice that hunger is a big deal It might be a good idea for you to try fasted cardio here is why You wake up you do whatever you go start doing cardio without having eaten yet Cardio takes an hour you finish your cardio you shower whatever the need eat During cardio for sure and even after cardio for 30 minutes or whatever you're often just not hungry Because you're in a sympathetic state of activity and you're not relieved like very much hungry at the time So you sort you kind of bought yourself or hour or two or three if you stretch it out of non-hunger time That means all of the rest of the calories you have spread to you through the day can crunch together and then you're eating in any unit time for the day later More calories per unit time because it's same calories, but the unit time is shrunk Normally you would eat 2,000 calories over 60 hours and kind of be really hungry during that time But you bought yourself two extra hours of doing cardio and then showering when you're not eating So now it's 14 hours Same number of calories divided by 14 hours you're feeling fuller on average So it's a great way to manage your hunger and that's the big power of fasted cardio But if your hunger's not really an issue and your cardio is really suffering energy-wise Fed state cardio is just way easier because you have energy from food for your brain glucose stuff like that So if you eat a meal do some chores do some work two hours later you do cardio You're gonna burn over the course of 24 hours almost the same identical amount of fat But at the same time you're gonna be able to really power through that cardio So if you need cardio power Fed state cardio is better Especially if you do higher intensity cardio if you compete in some kind of sport there requires you to train train If you can plot through your cardio in no problem little bit of black coffee goes a long way and you're really Want to hunger manage by squeezing the remainder of your food into a smaller eating interval Then fasted cardio is your choice So the idea that fasted cardio is always superior To fed state cardio for fat loss is Bullshit and the hated stop it Thanks Arnold it's great to hear your voice again and until next time see you next time

But if you're fasting that day, you're not recovering at all, you're starving. He folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pyridization, fasting. Is it a good thing for you to do? Now, a lot of people will fast for one day through the whole week. And they'll say that day is really cleansing. It's really good for them. And some people will fast the whole day at the beginning of their diet. One fast day to begin the whole thing. Both practices have some advantages, let's talk about them. So, what's the deal? Up sides of a one daily fast, whether it be once a week, or just once at the beginning of your diet, to kick start your fat loss diet. First, fasting can let you drop a ton of blood asap. When you fast for one day drinking enough fluids, obviously, you could lose like five to 10 pounds of just, just bloat just like under the skin, crap, salt water. And that can both make you look way better and sharper, and can make you feel just lighter and freer and more amazing. And if you've been stuffing your gullet with food for the last God knows how long one day of fasting can make you feel really, really cleansed, which is why a lot of the cleanses are basically fast. It can also challenge you to reduce your food focus towards the end of the day. A lot of us were so food focused all the time. They're like, what are we eating for breakfast? What about lunch? What about dinner? What about snacks? If you're fasting, well, there's nothing on the menu, and it makes you kind of re-architecture thinking a little bit, so that you focus on work, you focus on relationships, you focus on looking at birds and shit. Whatever Buddhist people say you're supposed to pay attention to in your outside, shit like that. Leaves, rustling, chipmunks, nature is metal, so don't look too close. In any case, maybe an appreciation for things that take you away from your excessive food focus, which can also help you later on in that diet. Once you become less food focused, it's easy to stay that way. But if you're really food focused on the diet, start your still food focus, but the food amounts are smaller, you can be even more food focused and just a bad time. Tough to be food focused when you're completely not eating anything, at least I'll say it's easy to take your mind off food, because you could just start your self-look. There's no food, there's nobody coming. No one's having to help. That's it. My little not think about it. In many cases, people when they eat a bunch of food all the time, they're kind of in a parasympathetic state, kind of a state of relaxation and digestion, and that's they can make you feel a little bit drowsy and make your head a little bit fuzzy. If you are fasting, it can actually raise your fight or flight hormones just a little bit to keep you feeling really razor sharp. Believe it or not, not eating for a whole day can sometimes make you feel kind of sharper. It can give you a little bit more clarity than you're used to, and that can be quite nice in and of itself. People report this all the time with fasting. I do an idea of fasting. I feel so fucking clean and sharp and focused. It definitely happens to many people. And as a stand alone by itself for your health, at least acutely, your glucose and insulin and fat dynamics in your bloodstream, all improve like crazy. Fasting in one little day is a very healthy for your longevity, long-term health, total inflammation, all that stuff. Really starts to fix up. So definitely some acute health benefits there. And of course, because you didn't eat anything all day long, you burned a lot of fat in one day. So it's absolutely green checkmarking you on your way to your goal of being leaner. So those are all distinct upsides. However, there are downsides with one whole day of fasting, on occasion, or even just at one point. First, some people have this mental clarity experience with fasting. Other people do not. Other people just get annoyed and become very hungry. And someone's like, how did your fast go? You're like, fuck and tear, why didn't you eat anything? What did you think it was going to be? Guess that's what it was going to be like, huh? Other people say it's great. Well, like, fuck all those other people. I'm going to eat those people when I see him next time, and I'm on a fast. Okay, fine. Fasting can's happy of energy. But it's not a mystery as to how this happens. You see the food that you eat that has the energy. And when you don't eat the food, you don't get the energy. Now sometimes your body's on a dog and a system's going to kick up. You get a little bit of a sympathetic fight or flight response. You feel like you have plenty of energy. But for some people that doesn't quite work that way, and they're more on the side of like, if I don't, if I eat everything's a junkie door, if I don't eat, I eat my energy. Level is destroyed and I just kind of moped around all day and kind of sit there cold and a blanket and then nothing good happens. That's totally a possibility with fasting. Outside of the challenge itself, occasional fasting seems to not confer any dependable long-term health benefits or psychological upsides. So if it's cool and fun and you really like it, amazing. If it's something that's super inconvenient, you fucking hate doing it, it's not that you should feel compelled to do it because of all but it hasn't least benefits. Fasting doesn't have any more benefits than controlling your calories for several months at a time and losing fat. If you do it by intermittently fasting and then eating normal, or if you do it by eating a little bit less each day, you get essentially the same outcome. So fasting is not critical. And so there's no long-term upsides that you should be like, like, you're half to fast. We should have, Scott, we should thumbnail and title this video like fasting must do's and it's like total fucking click make. Because like, we actually don't have to fast. Another thing is most of you guys watching this channel at least do good deal if you train really hard, right? You're using the RPH purtrafy app, link in description. Ah, you guys like that? That's called funnel hacking. I think it's what Vichred does. If you're training hard, fasting does not comport with that at all. If you're training hard that day, you want to eat that day to power your training. If you're training hard that day, you want to eat later that day to power your recovery. If you're not training on that day, you could be recovering like, whoa, by eating good nutritious food and getting plenty of rest of your relaxation and sleep. But if you're fasting that day, I mean, you're not recovering at all. Like, you're starving. And starvation does not confer recovery. Not by a little, not by a lot. So if you were in the process of being a physical individual who lifts weights, who does sports, fasting, it does not really a lot of intersections with that because you're much better off actually recovering and eating nutritious food than fast. And to that end, fasting will make you lose some muscle. Now, if you just do it one day here one day there, you gain all that muscle back and all problem. But if you want to maximize muscle growth and minimize muscle loss in any kind of plan, fasting the opposite of muscle growth promotes a lot of muscle loss. Muscle loss, you have to get back later. So really when you think about it, if you're trying to be jacked and lean, fasting, there's no direct route by which fasting is the thing that you should be doing, chairedably. So those are the downsides. As I see it, one of the best practices you can take away from this whole discussion. First, nobody needs to fast for a whole day or two or three, but he needs that. If you do fast, drink plenty of fluids in electrolytes, get rid of zeroes. Don't stand up too quickly, especially if you're not used to it because of orthostatic hypertension, you could actually pass out. That happens. If you don't eat for a whole day, you get up really quick. Your blood sugar is like fuck you and you're like, oh, I'm on the ground now. And I'm waking up and there's blood everywhere. And there's demons everywhere. I died and went to hell. Finally. Finally, it happened to me. I died and went to hell and I'm so excited. I used to be a professional singer. Every now and again, I loop back to singing. And when I sing most people have nothing to say about it because they're so fucking Austroken, how good I am. Other people will talk about angels and about like Madonna. People compare me to Prince. I'm just tired of it. I just got out of the whole singing business. This is too much of this too much gossip about me. I want to support science instead. In any case, careful standing up quick. Take it easy. Don't do too much physical activity. If you do a ton of physical activity while you're night eating food, again, it's going to be an insane amount of fatigue you'll have to deal with later or deal with right then and there because you'll like hit the wall. I mean, I can't walk around anymore. I can't move dehydrated. All that's really bad stuff. And big one. If you do fast on occasion, because they make you feel great, fucking keep doing them. Amazing. Don't go back to binging on bullshit the day after. Right? It's this classic trope of the fucking cigarette smoking beer drinking cheeseburger eating hipster with the little hipster body. Again, I'm working on it. I'm trying to get into Hollywood, but you know, slow roll like sweet, my man. And like, yeah, I'm going to do a fast. I'm going to do a cleanse man and really bad to my body. And I'm like, yeah, that's good. What do you get to do after that? Back to the bullshit, bro. Fucking cheeseburgers and Twinkies and cigarettes. And you're like, ah, fuck. So if you're willing to invest a day long fast to get your health started feeling good, little cleanse, keep it going. The day after the fast, don't just go get pizza. That's what your body's going to want. Go get some healthy food and keep the health shit going. Because eating healthy food in moderation is not nearly as difficult as fasting. So if you fast for a day or two and then you start your healthy diet, that could be a really great transition. But a lot of people who fast for a day or two after that, like, woo, I did it. I'm finally healthy. Let's go ruin it again by eating McDonald's for three hours straight. And I'm going to do it. There is no avoiding hard training if you want to grow. But if you want to grow the most, your training needs to be hard and smart. RP, hypertrophy app will make sure you're progressing on track, monitoring and adjusting your workout at all times. So for all that work you're doing, you can be sure you're getting the best results. If you don't fast on occasion, but you're lean and active, you do not need to fast. And if you do fast, unless it's the psychological benefits, you're just not getting a lot out of it. Especially with the trade-offs of daily energy decline from fasting, the necessity of eating around your workouts, of building muscle continuously throughout the day, no, there is, yes, there is an increase in growth hormone when you're fasting. Because growth hormone has multiple functions in the body and one of them is to liberate fat for use by the rest of your body. That's why the growth hormone's bigger curse. And if the growth hormone spike occurs without the presence of carbohydrates and amino acids, which are things you get from food, they actually does not cause any muscle growth. It just causes fat loss, which, duh, you're fasting and not much else. So don't think that fasting is going to get you jacked because of growth hormone spike. That is a myth would just kill right here and that does not happen. Because to get jacked, you have to eat food. That's how that works. So fasting, it can be cool for psychological reasons. It can feel really cleansing. It's definitely not bad for your health and it can be a slight positive in some context. Do it right. If you're going to do it, but if you don't do fasting, just eat well, train hard, lean, be happy, and occasionally. Just think about exposing a part of your body that you typically don't show in a weird social context, which you could get in trouble for. It's exhilarating. And that's all I'm going to say. Oh, wait. I purchased a nap, link into the description. Just give it some thought as we're trying to say. Send me DMs. I'm waiting for your DMs of your nudity. See you guys next time.

The feeder workouts are not something that typically works on a full-time including basis. You're not like, yeah, I've been doing bicep. The feeder workouts for a year, like that's probably not the smartest way to do. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. Feet or workouts, should you be doing them? So, feeder workouts are a thing that I have been asked about. Approximately nine trillion times. That's a rough estimate, but in order of magnitude it works. And what the hell are feeder workouts? First of all, just to clear you guys in that are not in the note. But if you Google it a lot, a lot shows up. Basically, feeder workouts, and I really just don't, I don't understand what the term feeder where that term comes from. And I can commentantly don't care enough to find out. And don't tell me, I don't want to do not tell me in the comments where feeder workouts turn comes from. But I can define it for you. Feet or workouts are when you do like usually one to two sets. Maybe a few more of an isolation movement typically. On your off days from training or on your training days for another muscle group just later in the day. And you do these usually often. So they're kind of extra workouts that are just one or two or three sets of an isolation movement taken close to failure. And you kind of sprinkle them in throughout the week outside of your major sessions of training for any muscle and even that muscle itself. So for example, you would do like three feeder workouts for your biceps a week where you would do two normal workouts. Let's say you train chest and then biceps, which train back and then biceps another day. And a couple of times throughout the week, you get like the 20 pound dumbbells and you smash like two myorepsets or something of dumbbell curls. Like you know, you're studying at home and then after you're done studying like for 30 minutes, freshen up, just do some curls and then go back to studying. That's how I've seen it done before. And so these workouts are like the ultimate hack. Everyone thinks that this is how you get jacked and this is the thing that works. And it's obviously if you haven't tried them, you're an idiot. You just not available to the secret. You know, in cell, read it part of the internet that knows how to get jacked, but apparently never post pictures in the cells. Stay calm, in cells. I am actually yes talking about you. So the upsides, you guys thought I was just going to shit on it. But I know where is there are actually upsides. If you have a constraint schedule and you don't have as much training time for big to our long workouts, just getting in some work here and there, one or two sets at a time every few days can let you get way more volume in in that constraints schedule for a muscle or two that you're targeting for extra growth, totally. Another benefit is that you're kind of always hitting that muscle fresh. I mean, if you do a feet of work out for biceps, you just start with biceps and end with biceps. It's two sets or one set or three sets of biceps, you're fresh. You're ready to go. No problem. The thing is, is that some muscles recover much faster than the rest. So for example, if you're training your rear delts and you train them twice a week with other muscle groups, it could be that they're recovered like later that day. Some muscles can be trained five or six times a week and recover just fine between training sessions. And if you're training them with just one or two sets at a time, they can for sure recover on time. So that's definitely a good thing. A lot of people say, well, feet of workouts are stupid because you train once or twice a week for every muscle and that's good enough. For some muscles it is. And then you know, your glutes, your pacts, they'll take a few days or recover for sure. Maybe longer, but like your forearms, your biceps, your side delts, something like that, maybe even your calves and some, some circumstances. They can recover quick. So if a muscle can recover quick and if you're already recovering enough to train that muscle, then you want the best gains, you maybe train that muscle and then it'll work and that'll be great. And lastly, slower twitch muscles and some people have a proportionally higher fraction of slower twitch muscle and some muscle and their body likes slower twitch biceps or forearms or triceps or whatever. And those individuals with a higher proportion of slower twitch muscle fibers is that really a good dependable way outside of muscle biopsy that you can find out if your muscles are slow twitch or not. But you will find out through a variety of proxies, one is like they respond better to higher reps and lower reps and two, they recover really fast. Like people who take days and days to recover between muscle groups are typically on average by a small margin, have more faster twitch fibers. People who can recover very rapidly or typically slower twitch, which also means they're typically not a strong. It means the joints and connective tissues won't take as much of a beating. They can recover within hours or days instead of days and potentially even up to a week. And they also struggle to grow as much and the muscle turnover rate is faster. So four people who have that muscle fiber characteristic or more of it rather, feeder workouts may actually be just the more logical prescription because if you recover faster and you need a more consistent stimulus to grow, feeder workouts are just that more consistent stimulus. So kind of nobody lost nobody found problem auto-sol. There are downsides however, so let me get to those. First you need to have equipment around. If the fuck are you supposed to do a feed of workout if you're working on an office? Because you're just going to get a fuck too trash can. Bro, and just curly shit. You curl the first one. The garbage and dumps it on you. You're like, fuck, I might as well dump the rest of the garbage. And then that one girl from a hiding lock saying, and she's like, oh my god, Frank, there's the garbage on you. We really can send you and you kneel down. And this is appropriate. In these cases, you're like, I fucking, I'm just garbage in your eyes. Please step on me. And she's like, oh my god, you. Okay, yeah. And then you're in. But if you're not in, it's just like another sexual harassment lawsuit, which is like, I'm saying, figure tape that shit. Your boy's on number 51. Anyway, you don't have barbells and dumbbells laying in your fucking room, your house, you actually go to the gym, feeder workouts, the sort of out. You can do them with bodyweight stuff, but that really limits things. Next, your warmups need to be very limited to save time. Because if you're doing workouts with intense or intense, complete warmups, three sets to warm up, she, you know, this is going to be like a lot of time you spend. Now it's not a feeder workout, really. You're just like training a lot. And it takes a lot of time and maybe gives you better results, but just in the way of saying, hi, frequency. It's not a special thing. The thing with feeder workouts is that you're kind of like, your set is the working set and the warmups set. So a big rule, which I'll repeat again later, is high-wrap training is the only way to do this. If you do this heavy, since it's a 5 to 10, even sets up 10 to 15 to have it, you can get hurt rather, more technically than probability of getting hurt is. I find not reasonably worth the trade off. Since the 15, 20, 25, 30 reps, yeah, you can just pick up some dumbbells. Iceilation movement, especially if you go slow on the eccentric and, and it maybe get a little going quickly on your reps, as you go through the set and feel warmer, then it's totally fine in that case. But a lot of times it's a little bit hard to go hard. It's a little difficult to go hard on a set and really actively some muscle fibers. If it takes, you're not clued in yet. Like warmups really act to be you now to play the dream within a dream, fucking sequence here, if you are more slower twitch, and you want to grow your muscles and the vast proportion of your muscles that you're trying to grow, the muscle fibers are slower twitch, then actually they're fully active and being stimulative hypertrophy without you ramping the nervous system at all. You got to ramp the nervous system at all and to hit the bigger, faster twitch motor units. And if your muscle that your train with heater sets isn't really super fast to which anyway, it's kind of like, well that's okay as soon as you start rap one, you know that hypertrophy gains are coming. So it might be the very small gains, but with higher frequency, using a good dedicated block of this kind of stuff, you can make some progress. Another downside. The literature on this is not ultra compelling, but it's also at the same time pretty clear. Anabolic resistance accumulates in proportion to how much volume you do, and in proportion to how frequently you do that. If you train your legs once every three or four days, it's going to take you like, oh four to six weeks to get pretty resistant and about lead to more leg growth before you deal out or take some time away or switch at your size or something. But if you train like every day for the same muscle or even every other day, definitely every day, you know, just a few weeks later, you're going to be spinning a lot of wheels and more than you are growing. You're still grow, but the magnitude of growth quickly levels off. So feet of workouts are not something that typically works on a full timing, including basis. You're not like, yeah, I've been doing bicep feet of workouts for a year. Like, that's probably not the smartest way to do it. I'll talk about what a smarter way to do it. It doesn't suck, but it's probably not training. I'll try every one to see for weeks and weeks and weeks and months and months and months. Because Anabolic resistance, you're a propensity to grow muscle from further exposure to training, and it starts to fall off. If you choose the wrong movements or your technique is off, and you're training that five or six times a week with no warm-up, you can wreck temporarily, of course, your joints and connective tissues. They just put them in a real bad way. So you've got to be careful about this kind of stuff. And this is distinct downside. Some of the gay men of Fook and Albo's agree I would have been doing like, Fook, feet of workouts, triceps, dynchins, every five hours. I can tell you why they're elbows hurt. It's the feet of workouts every five hours. There's no, there's no run-up to that joke. Lastly, a big downside is, you know, you make a lot of progress warming up and doing basic compound heavy shit. In your actual dedicated two to four time a week per muscle hypertrophy or strength training sessions. And if you do too many feet or workouts between sessions, you're going to be sapped and not recovered and not progressing in your actual sessions. It's like trying to get as many calories in as you can, but for your four meals a day that you got a snatch calories, you're not eating much because you're snacking so much between meals. Either way, ends up the calories. Some people, if they snack, it's great. That's how they get the calories. But for other people, snacks really crush their appetite and that continual input of snacks means they just won't eat them in calories. So you've got to kind of find out which person you are. In this case, some people can recover totally fine from feet of workouts. And it's really from most people a matter of how much they do. But there is a way very easily that many people can get themselves into situation with they just get like what I would call like volume greedy. They go, oh my god, I'm a fucking god or frequency greedy. Then I guess I'm going to do feet of workouts and do every fucking hour. I'm kidding this every day or four days a week. And I'm also going to do my biceps sessions the other two days a week. And after two weeks, they're like go to the regular biceps session and I'm like fuck man, I'm just gasped for all my biceps. I've nothing. And it's like, well, you train them 18 times the last two weeks. The fuck are they supposed to recover? So there's an imbalance with feet of workouts between stimulus and recovery that can really occur. All your stimulus is fucking happening. You're doing it. But your recovery is so low. The adaptive processes might have trouble. And then once you recover, sinks low enough, even preventing a good stimulus is tough because it's just too tired. It's like if you have ever picked up like three girls at the same time at the club. And they're like just do it's just do with dxt. You're just do the thing that you do to us with your with your jadded allus and you're like, well, I don't think my knees. And get ready. Hey, go. You'll get tired. And then girl number three is like, kind of felt like maybe you took it out on all the other two girls. And you're like, well, yeah, six hours of sex is a gift I have from God, but God did not give me the ability to have seven hours of real sound. I'm just going to shut up. I'm going to get myself canceled again. Isn't that right? It's got the video guy. In any case, recommendations. First, before you go to try feet or workouts, try to save yourself. For marriage, see, is turned into a wholesome family channel, try to save yourself for focused hard sessions, two to four times a week. That's how grandpa made his gains. That's how dad made his gains. And then dad, mama dad didn't get along that one time and dad went away for three to six months, but then he came back and he started doing two to four sessions just like he was doing in prison. So the core element here is that great sessions coupled with enough time to get great recovery, to build the foundation for another great session is a formula that works with the best of all of them on average. And it's the one you should try first. But if you have done this for a while and especially on some muscle groups that seem to be really hard to stimulate a ton and one session, like there's only so much you can do for your biceps sometimes and you're like, you know, I train them so hard and I can I can definitely do more sessions per week than I am. Then maybe you can experiment with feeder sets for a mesocycle or something like that just four to six weeks and see how you progress. Right. And in the RPI purge of the app, you can actually put in feeder sets if you like. You just throw extra biceps in that the end of each workout. When you complete the workout, complete the biceps stuff, leave it alone and then later that night you're like, oh, shit, actually, do biceps. I just want to head up. You know, 30 reps of curls and say complete and then you're good to go. Some muscles are going to be better candidates than others. Feet or sets on quads, you're a fucking insane. You're going to blow your legs right off your body or just get so tired. You're not going to be able to recover. You're going to have shitty workouts. Your legs might stretch a shrink and more endurance athlete type of stuff. Chest, back, typically is not a good idea. One of the stupidest ideas I heard was from a bodybuilding coach I won't name about 15 years ago. He said the key to a big back was to do 50 chin ups every day. I don't think a single one of his athletes could have done 50 chin ups in a session that was less than an hour long and I don't think he'd had ever done that himself. I just don't know why he said it. But if you tried that shit, you would grind your shoulders and elbows off the fucking butt at the stump. Stupid a shit I've ever heard. Big muscle groups that are strong do not do feeder sets for them. Do regular conventional training because both from muscular perspective, from a neurological and central nervous system perspective, and from the perspective of joint and connective tissue integrity, you want to have plenty of recovery time between these sessions. However, for muscles like forms and biceps and rear-and-side delts, they're not particularly positioned to take a lot of damage. They're not particularly bigger strong in most cases. So you can crank out lots of volume with them over the course of the week and if each session is, well, stimulative but not too voluminous one or two sets at a time, you can crank away and get pretty good results and you won't break apart like Mr. Potato had. Definitely don't do them all the time. Again, a mesocycle at a time see how your results progress. They're not, they are not the magic tool that everyone is fucking doing. There is this real big dichotomy between shit that jacked people actually do and shit you see on Reddit that people with no profile picture say jacked people actually do. Because if you go out, I'm not to pick on Reddit, you can go on 8chan, 4chan. I was going to say another joke that I say this word and we're going to scan for sure. Easy Mike. There are people that will confidently assure you that XYZ method or food or approach or supplement is of the way to do things. Some fraction of those people are completely correct. Some fraction of those people are marginally correct to sort of nuance to what they're saying. And some of those people are just making shit up whole cloth or just work for them and works for fucking nobody else. There's this community of people who think feedersets are like the answer. Some of them are just repeating shit they heard other people say. Some of them are genetically just not very prone to getting jacked because they are slow twitch and fiber composition and average more than other people and actually for them feedersets work. But that does not guarantee that they're going to work for you. There are no fucking hacks folks. There are no hacks. They don't exist. They don't exist. They don't have a lot of exists at your gym. But after you do, if you set the 10 on that, you realize that is not a hack that is just straight up like, not really hard work. So don't think like a feeder sets. That's the thing, right? If you are struggling with your muscle game, there is no penicia that will come save you. None. An including metabolic steroids. Because if you take them, sometimes you get amazing results. Sometimes your genetics sucked for steric compatibility and you just get like test flu and dick else happens to you and you don't gain much muscle. So don't think that this is the answer, the solution. Think this is an interesting tool. You can try to put in your toolbox and use for about a month at a time and see how your results progress. For these one mesocycle sprints of using feeder sets, if you're going to do them, I would recommend doing them like this. Let me tell you guys about the RP Hypertrophy app. With over 28 preset programs already in the app, you can choose to make your own. You can modify an existing program or you can just run the programs exactly as they are written by E person on this app programs everything for you. Exercise is weights, sets, reps, frequency, thought, whole thing. After every single workout, every single week, the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now, you're pretty interested in the app, download the RP Hypertrophy app today. If you are able to turn it up psychologically after minimal warm-up or no warm-up at all, totally cool. Don't rush. Don't pick up the weights and just start doing this. What I would suggest for feeder sets really is to take a weight that is 20 to 30 percent or sorry, 23 to bring. Somewhere between 20 and 30, RM, right, rep max. You do like five reps with it nice and slow and then put the dumbbells down and weight like 30 seconds. Stretch it out, move around. That's a good enough warm-up for most cases that you just highly likely get hurt. Then crank the set and go real close to failure and I would actually recommend doing my reps like two break my reps. So hit like 15, rest a little while, hit another five. Eight or some shit, rest a little while and another five and then you're good. Nice swollen pump, everything's great. Hyreps only, no rush, one extra warm-up of five reps with the working weight is going to take 30 seconds to do and then 30 seconds later, you're going to be able to go again. That's one extra minute of your day. If you four feeder sets a week, that's four fucking minutes of the week that can take your injury propensity and you're doing connective tissue strain that you put a net because you know the first set always feels like shit, the second set feels way better and just radically reduce it. I'd say that's a really good return investment. If you're getting great pumps, keep doing it, keep doing it. If you're not getting great pumps, it's probably not whole lot is happening. You're just getting more tired. If you're joined to connective tissues or handling it well, amazing. Do not be that person. It's again then, fucking my reps on tries to pick extensions every hour, or early my joints, but like, fucking war out there, brother. No, don't, don't do anything to fuck up your joints. You've got to take care of them, shit. They're going to be in there for the long haul. If it doesn't affect the rest of your program, you're good to go. If you're coming in and you're underhand pull ups, your rosers still go. Your biceps aren't tired because the 16 hours before that you did a feeder set or two, your biceps healed amazing. If they're not healed, push that workout back, reduce the volume, do something to it so that your core workouts for the muscle groups involved are still awesome. And if it seemed to give you good results, sometimes you can visually after a month be like damn, your boys can fucking jack, or your weights and reps in the feeder workouts are going up pretty impressively. And, or your weights and reps in your regular workouts are going up, or after you take a deal with week you come into your regular workouts, you're literally fucking shit. My biceps bigger and stronger. This is fucking amazing. Then you're onto some shit. If that doesn't happen to you in a mesocycle, take two mesocycles back in normal training, come back and try it again. If I want to try something just once, usually, especially if it doesn't hurt you. Try it again. Ultra some things, modify some things, be more intelligent. I would start with something like two extra feeder workouts of one myor upset each per week. Try that for a month. That might help. If that doesn't work, you gotta think okay, it was a too much stimulation or too little stimulation. Because it could have been like yeah, a little pomp and then that and it just not enough. I never got tired and I never got sore and I've got fatigued. My workouts never got interfered with. Try three or four. If on the other hand, you try three or four and I got to wait too much. Try two to three again. Somewhere over one or two mesocycles or maybe three, you're going to figure out this fucking sweep. I got something really good. I need to change something. I need to switch machines or for juxturizers, etc. Or this isn't, and that's totally fine because there's always conventional, awesome training that'll hook you up. By the way, have you downloaded and paid me money for the RP hypertrophy app? My butler's checked. It doesn't seem like your your gold coins. From John Wick, slid under my fucking under the table to so that I can go by cool underworld stuff like John Wick does. It's going to say underworld amber guideas, but I have a room with my botlers. Anything you bring into my home, which is acres of property, needs to be totally legal, especially the Lamborghini's. In any case, link in the description, go get that app and members. We always have more videos for you and they're always nerdy and they're always sciencey or they're just me making penis jokes. But god damn, do I get an enrol? So check out the member section as well. And see you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Anasanspiridization. And today's BS episode is to claim that the idea that walking is perfectly good exercise for everyone is BS. Walking is not exercise. Has it been 30 seconds yet? I'll save the BS for later. I had to get the Arnold BS in there, so I'll save it for the end of the episode. But for now, I'll have to say, is point number one. The issue is a little bit nuanced. They did oversell that walking is not exercise. So let's figure out how walking can be exercise and for who. And for folks that are low in activity that get fewer than 5,000 daily steps, for example, on average, if they start walking, especially at 10,000 or so, maybe 10,000 plus daily steps, walking absolutely does count as a type of very important exercise they should be getting. It's great exercise. It's easy to do. And it's a great way to ease into the fitness thing for people that are way out of shape and just completely out of touch and fitness altogether. Absolutely. Now, for folks that are already walking a lot and for those who are not overfat or very overweight, a lot of older people, especially. Walking is just not hard enough on the body. Doesn't present enough of a challenge to your physiology and your anatomy. For it to check all of the main health boxes we want exercise to check. Thus, if you are older in your 40s, 50s, 60s plus and you're walking plenty and you're not overfat, you should be doing more because it's actually inaccurate for someone to say, hey, do you exercise? You're like, oh, yeah, absolutely. They're like, how do I go out? Why? I walk at tongue. Hmm. But that's not enough to check all the boxes. Walking is great exercise for someone just easing into their fitness. But for someone who wants the really core elements of checking the boxes to make sure you're doing everything you can to be reasonably fit in every capacity and healthy, we need a few more things in here. They are a holistic fitness program should include plenty of baseline walking, something like 10 Bows and steps a day on average is great. In addition to that, you should highly consider doing regular higher intensity cardio, where you're breathing very heavy for at least 30 minutes per session, something like three times per week. And you can do much more than that and get even healthier. But that's kind of the minimum. And in addition to that, not in a trade-off with that. Regular resistance training lifting weights with machines dumbbells cables, whatever. At least whole body twice a week and then more is better after that. So if you're an older person, if you're new to fitness, if you have family and friends, hand-hint, that's why I made this one, that are saying, look, I walk a lot. And in my diet it's going to an out of a weight I'm good to go. You can conduct them to at least two things. One is have some hard cardio, where they really challenge themselves regularly a few times a week, heavy breathing. You don't really have you when you walk, I sure hope. And two, some kind of resistance training, just two times a week builds bones, it builds muscle, and it enhances your health in a way that no number of just daily steps can get you to. Give that some thought because the idea that for everyone wanting their best health, walking is enough to count as all the exercise you need is as the great Arnold Schwarzenegger would know, don't say bullshit. No, you can just walk. You've got the run and you've got the bike and swim. And yeah, and yeah, and do the thing with the arms, they go like this. Yeah, it's called the elliptical. Yeah, and it looks funny, but you're going to be a Superman. Yeah, and then you lift weights. We are in the gym and you're coming all the time. In any case, I've talked myself out. I'll see you next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NS�psPirudization. Welcome to video number 12 in the building your hypertrophy mesocycle series, the last video in our series. And we've been building all of the hypertrophy mesocycles through the series with the RP hypertrophy app. It's new, it's great, it's amazing, it'll be your friend, you want a little distance and you just need a quaintance, it'll do that too. Link in the description to buy it, give that some thought. Today's video is about how to make your next mesocycle after you've made your first one in successfully completed your first hypertrophy program. What do you do into the next one? First, consider what training block you are in for how to design your next one. So for example, you could be in a muscle game phase, you could be in a fat loss phase, a maintenance phase, or an active rest phase. You could be in all those phases and you'll have to design mesocycles for them specifically. If you were building a muscle game, mesocycle, you just did a muscle game one and the next one's muscle game. You just build a normal cycle in the app, you don't have to specify anything because this app is optimized for muscle game. If you're building a fat loss, mesocycle, you don't have to tell the app you are in fat loss mode. One of the interesting things that people have been requesting and eventually we're going to get this done anyway. But they're like, hey, does your diet app and training app talk to each other? The answer right now is no, and the future it'll be yes for some other reasons. But the training app doesn't actually need to know what diet phase you're in because it's auto regulation. It's algorithms for a pump, you are a sore, you are your volume, perception, fatigue, etc. It handles automatically the transition for muscle game to fat loss, so it's already going to be the best fat loss mesocycle builder that you can have. So you don't need to tell the app extra anything. Now, if you're doing maintenance in the app, you're going to want to keep it to one to three sets per exercise. And if you're getting very sore or very pumped, you're going to want to manually reduce the volume. And every single week that you do, your maintenance phase, you're going to want to click pushed my limits on your workload questionnaire portion. Because the app is just going to not add sets anywhere. You don't want the app adding sets. So for maintenance, the shortcut is just hit push my limits start with a low volume, keep the low volume the entire time. For active rest, I would just say do a D load week at the end of your month cycle and then take the next one week entirely off of training. That counts us two weeks of active rest, so no problem there. Now, when you're building your new mesocycle, you go and you have this as example, we did legs and Toronto together. The Dildo Mezzo we just did last time that's green box here means we're still in the mezzo, but I'm trying to show you guys how this works really quick. So what you would do is you either go here to the new or you all the way to the left and say plan and you measure, they take you to the exact same screen. And then you just start building your mesocycle and of course, you picked your sex. You pick which day of the week you want to begin your mezzo for simplicity, you can choose a preset, which means you've got all these options in here. Good God. Oh, and we'll let me choose a preset because I have chosen a sex yet. Oh, come on Mike, we'll say I'm female today, I feel female. Choose a preset, you've got all these options. Six workouts per week, five workouts per week, four or two, all this stuff. These are all preloaded plans. As a matter of fact, let's say low about a three times a week. We can just do that. Now you can also create a custom mezzo where you build it out yourself. But if you do lower about a few times a week, it'd continue Monday, Wednesday, Friday. It's already picked all of your muscle groups that you want to train and all you have to do is select the exercises. If you get really lazy and we're going to make this feature better and better over time, you can go here to the option and just say auto fill. And it'll just auto fill the exercises with suggestions that things are a good idea. And then you go down a second, that's good. That's good. And I want to do bodyweight squat. I'm going to do something else. And I'm going to say front squat, you can change it. No problem, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And then when you fill in everything, you can even delete some of the user's hand. I want to do quads today. But I'm going to add and say I'm going to do more by steps work because I'm trying to be a bro. I'm going to do by steps. I'm going to do barbell curl mirror grip. And then you create the mezzo and it creates the whole thing for you. So making mezzo is in the app. I mean, she is you can make a mezzo in a minute if you want. This is a big deal. Eventually, we will allow the app to be a portal or it trains other people for you. You can DM them in the app and train all of your online clients. That is coming. The engineer's will kill me for saying this. I will not put a date on when it's coming. We are working on it. But right now, if you are a personal trainer, you can build as many mesocycles as you want for all of your clients. It takes a very little time. And they are just all going to be here on the screen. So when you go from mesocycles, as you build more and more mesos, you just fill up and you have your clients name. You have the description. Anything else you want to do with it? So when you can already use it as a personal trainer to train as many clients as you want. You just have it there. You know exactly what they are doing every single time. Soon, as soon as we can, we are going to allow this to do online training as well. And that will be a really big thing. But to that end, when you are making the mesocycles and you are trying to choose exercises, I would say consider reusing exercises that you most enjoyed and are making the best progress for you in the last meson. Over time, we are going to make the app smarter so that it begins to suggest which exercises you should keep in which ones you should replace. Absolutely, we will get to doing that. Lots of stuff to do before that it will get there. But for now, you just pick the stuff that you like that you are progressing on and then you can vary anything else that you want. At the end of the day, I would probably say just pick exercises that you really enjoy. You get a good kick out of and they are working well for you. They don't hurt your joints. They give you good pumps. You are making progress on them. There's you can always do that manually and it will work every single time. Now, when it comes time to doing exercises that you've never done before, you will not be picked your loads you go. But if you are doing the same exercise over, last mesonated barbelled mesonated, you got to 15 reps of 150 pounds at the end. What do you choose this time? The recommendation is you go back to week one of Barbell Bentro exercise in your last mesocycle. You see that you did 130 pounds then. I would increase that load by roughly 5% probably no more. Put that in as the load that you want and then go from there and then you will get 5% stronger again over the next mesonate. That's not always going to work if you are more advanced, it might be more like 2 to 1.5%. Something that will target the same rep range that you want. If the same rep range is your target. So if you are doing sets of 15 to 20 in a bottle of that rose, pick a weight that you can progress with starting out. That's at least 5 pounds heavier than the weight you started in your last meson. Pick it next and then go from there. If you're feeling great, if you're really blowing it out of water, make it 10 pounds or 15 pounds heavier in my recommendation is be conservative. If you discover that it's way too easy, you can always go up and increase load and you haven't even gotten too much fatigue. Something's way too hard away to heavy can beat you up and you're less than learned of when in the next week or right in the next session to decrease the load. That's a problem. If you missed the load and you first working set is sucks, you can just take that works at weight. If you say, I'm just going to start this over and pick a new weight or you can make duplicate exercises. And if you make those duplicate exercises, you make it with lower weight, the next week, you just delete that first exercise, the duplicate set of the new exercise and you go from there. So this is something that is so tempting to get wrong because you're like, well, look, if I just assign myself more weight, I'll have to get stronger. That's not how it works. You want a weight that you can handle for the rep range, you want with good technique. And if it's only ever five pounds more than last time, you can do like six mesocycles a year or no problem or like eight. Forty pounds of increase and strength, five times a year or whatever, that's huge for reps, you're going to get way, way bigger. If your body is growing and you're getting stronger, faster, you will know. And then the side of a little bit conservative and then go from there. Do not chase progression at the expense of technique, mine muscle connection or your stimulus to fatigue ratio. Don't be like, I have to get 155 pounds for 15 of bar above rows or I haven't grown. Well, if you have or haven't grown, that's already done. That's not up to you to decide. That's all biochemical. So just do your best with the best technique and if you're not progressing, you can look at why. Maybe it's because your technique has gotten so much better, that it's more challenging and you really have gotten more muscular, but your technique is the thing that was like, hey, like, so much better now using less weight. I've had years where my technique improves and I don't get stronger in the exercises. I said my chest and my quads and my dulse just going growing growing. And if I go back to my old technique, I can double the reps and like, oh yeah, I can't believe I used to technique that was a shitty. I had great squat technique that I watched videos from 10 years ago where I was squatting to depth and all that stuff and I was like, man, I'm bouncing out of the hole. I'm using a crap load of lutes and lower back. This isn't like a super upright modern type of squat that I do. So don't get too addicted to the weight progression they should handle themselves. Challenge yourself just a little bit more every mesocycle. And if look, you're growing a ton, then your reps are going to start skyrocketing. And in the middle of the muscle, you'll have to add more weight than the program predicts, which is totally great. All right, folks, that is it for our series. Thank you so much for tuning in. The RP-Highperrophy app is live. It is for sale. It is awesome. People are using it. Some people even love it. They say some people are in love with it. Link in the description. Give that a look and I'll see you guys next time.

Oh yes. I'm gonna be a hard lock-out man. Up and back, up and back, go. Go, go! Feel a week just from being sore. Yeah, make sure. It's okay, it's all I tested my roof wing. Yeah, yeah. It's sh**. I'm gonna be... I'm gonna be... I'm gonna be... You're what up? Dr. Mike here. For a second. Yo, what up? Dr. Mike here. For a second. For a second. Jared, for other I-FB pro. Super Coach. Tristan Lee. Mega soccer player. Mega influencer. Dare I say tick-tocker. That was just... That was just... That was just my apology. I've been coaching Tristan here for about two months now. It's been really fun. He's eating all kinds of carbohydrates. And he's training very, very hard. So today we're putting Tristan through a push session. We're gonna be utilizing the RP Hyperch3 app. It's gonna be a good time. You're gonna see all kinds of cool screenshots, cool little features. We might add in there. We're gonna change out exercises since we're in a new gym. But it'll be good to go since... Just coaches literally here guiding him through. Oh. Like a bird. That goes... They get spurs. Oh. Let's get to the workout. For a part we need to... I don't know if you look anymore. You know what I mean? Yeah, you go to the dressing. I want to do some crab walk. Yeah, soccer warm up. I see that. Hi, ladies. Some pushups on up. That's what you're... I don't... I don't... Scabs though. Oh, we're a crab. Yeah! Wow! Alright. Exercise number one is the low incline dumbbell fly. The elbow angle here is something you choose that feels comfortable. Two straight is gonna be weird on your elbows. Two bent is just gonna be kind of more of a press than a fly. 135 degrees is a real good start. But play around with it. What you want to make sure is that the degree of bend is as stable as possible. That's all range of motion. You don't want to do a situation when you lower the bend at the bottom. You'll notice that sometimes, trust him, during this exercise, we'll start to lower the bend. But then he knows not to do that, so he'll straighten it out a little bit. Those micro corrections can be very, very important. As you go down, you want to go super deep or track your shoulder, weights back to expand the chest. And you want your chest to stay super up so as you're taking your wrists and lowering them as deep as you can. You're also lifting your chest as high into this guy as you can. Very slow at the bottom. This is not an exercise when you choose a ton of weight, beef, hoe. Never any fast transitions out. Go down nice and slow, cause, and then accelerate out of the bottom slowly. Let's get it done. Yes, good. I was always pushing your chest to the ceiling as it goes down, getting a much larger range of motion of stretch to the chest. Let's go. Oh, yes. Oh, yes. Let's go. So next exercise was technically a Smith machine high incline bench. We are doing same high incline, but just with a barbell. This is a fine way to swap out exercises. And if you're going to do that on the app, basically what you're going to do is exactly what we're doing today. We're going to work up to a weight that was similar as you guys know most Smith machines are a bit easier. You can use the bit more load and we usually count the Smith machine implement as 45 pounds anyway just with a barbell. So we're going to work up to a load that feels similar to the 165 that he used last week. He's going to try to either rent match with probably 155 is my best bet. That's about usually my shift is about a 10 to 20 pound shift depending on the Smith machine to the barbell. So likely it'll work up to 155 maybe a little lighter depending on how he feels. And we will try to beat reps. I believe there's probably an added set in there as well. So this is still a few letting volume the way you would want. So that's how you swap it out on the app. If you don't have access to something good access to an approved, yes, micro cycle or week. Alright, let's go. πε.... Ah. Well. Oh, it's down there. Yes. Get him, alright. I guess that Smith machine is lighter. Oh hell enough. Smith is wii. No, I mean then even then we thought. I didn't have the ability to pick back her. And we just trained chest to you as well. The camera doesn't know that. I didn't know. I feel like we just from being sore. Yeah, make sense. It's okay. It's all like chest is my weak point. So what Tristan is doing right now is he's taking the two sets that were still on this exercise, skipping the weights or getting rid of those two sets that were at 150. And adding two down sets instead to keep them in the reference that we're trying to keep them in. So instead of just decreasing performance like you got a and the first set, then making it six, then you might get four. We're going to take those two sets and remove them. Hit the add down set feature. Go to 135 and try to keep them in that 10 plus reference. Oh, one more. Go back, back, back, back. So he's in normal benches where you're like slide my way on. Yeah. See. Beautiful way to push it back. One more. Control. Go up. Good. Good. Excellent. Next exercise. J.M. Press style skull crusher. But with the twist, Matwist is a physical twist. Super set. The deficit push-ups on my god out. This is going to hurt. Tristan is going to grab the ultra comfy handles here with an open palm grip. And he is going to go down to his next slash face area. I'll be close to the neck. And see if he can't get his neck close to touching this. Why are we doing this? Because tension imposed a deep stretch. It's more muscle growth promoting than tension imposed at other ranges of motion. And this level of depth is going to be a ketoclysmic in nature. Tragedy or triumphant. To the next for deficit, skull crusher, jam, press. Albusin. Yes. Beautiful man. Keep it up. Oh yes. Motel after these centers really use that stretch. Use the punch out of the fist up now. One more. Let's get it. Albusin. Big stretch. Big stretch. Use it. Go. Yes. Press. Okay. What's over? Look forward not down. Some can pause at the bottom. There you go. Time for a hug. Up and back. Oh shit more. Yup. Cored. Up and back. Good. Good. Tristan. Press. One more. Tristan. Slow on the way down. Everything. Go modify your technique. You get this. Put it up and back. It's going to be hard luck on man. Up and back. Up and back. Go. Go. Yes. Good. Might say every tip that we give you is going to make you harder. That's the motivation I needed. On three tips so far. Alright folks. Tristan is done with all the pushing exercises. Now he's got to do a dealt exercise. We are doing some free motion. Why raises here? We're going to do them reverse. You can do them one way or the other. You can do them straight on. Where you can turn and do them reverse. If you have to set it up. You just grab both of them like normal. And then step over both with the leg. Turn around and get going. The reverse ones are probably objectively a little superior. They're both good from a variation perspective. What you'll notice is. Vector wise. There's basically no force up here. But down here the force magnifies as the stretch is produced. See if the highest degree of tension at the stretch. Very rare shoulder exercise in which we can actually get a piece of stretch on that lateral head. And then coming all the way up. You're going to know exactly when to stop. Because up here it's going to be like, oh, I could just hold this forever. And then make sure to slowly control that eccentric. Give it a second at the bottom. And then come up in an athletic way. And then you can do it with a half exercise. Make sure that you've got verse grips or straps or chalk or something. Don't want grip holding you back on this. If you institute some kind of grip fix, whether it's chalk straps or verses. If you get five or six more ups per set. That means your RIR was whatever you thought it was. Plus five or six. Not very hyper tropics. So make sure grip is sorted. Do your best job. These are a great exercise. If you have a free motion machine. If you don't, you can do them on regular cables. But the free motion one allows you a lot of options. In any case, let's get a duck. Oh yeah. Come on. Slow off your foot. Oh. That's one that's good. Come on. Go. Slow. Fuck it. Good fuck yeah. Yeah, we've got it on the app. Last exercise here for Tristan. These free motion curl. These are best done. Not facing the machine. Facing is a fine option. If you face away from the machine. Most of the tension is imposed at a deep stretch. Just excellent for muscle growth. Another thing is this. If you're really close to the machine and the handles are here. This really just like a normal curl. You want to walk a few steps forward. So you're really stretched back here. Come up to here. You don't have to come all the way up to here. There's not much utility there. So here you just come up here. Control. Big stretch at the bottom. And come back up. These are great for my rep matching. They're great for my reps because all you do is back up. You can even let go of the handles. But if not, you just drop your knees a little bit. Drop into this position. On low the handles. Wait five or six seconds. Come back up. Crank up more reps. You're there. 10, 9, 8, 7, 7, 7, 7, 6, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1. 1, 1, 1, 10, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 8, 1, 1, 1, 2, 10, Here's some how fence I walk off you're. Great. But as great as I walk off the fence, do you guys pitch painful? Pain is the word. They're kind of great. You pay a diamond at可是e four. And are shamed of what you still show up every Thursday night? Using the know nothing about that and looking young They're talking to us. Just an innocent 16 year old. Anderson, 14 and a half year old, Tristan Lee, Hot Pertriffy App user, Happy Birthday. App addict, Yep, A Pertriffy App, Rehab failed. He's a high-level athlete. Jared, I just described your extended family and replace high-pertriffy App with every drug known to me. What do you think about your client? How do you do? He usually sets the standard. We get to train together a lot and the dragon layer and everything like that. And I'm always just like making sure my fucking technique it's up to four. Yeah. It's awesome to train with people like that. Thank you. So awesome because then everyone's doing better for themselves. What I meant to say was he fully replaced you and every measure will a possible including how intelligent he motionally. Yeah, definitely motionally. That's the most important. Yeah, absolutely. He may be your new best friend. He'll never be your literal. Biological father. Like I am. I raised you. I gave birth to you. You came right out of my piss hole. Folks, at the hell of my talking about, go scoop down into the description. And I found out you the RPI Pertrifi app. And Mr. Tristan, you got a code for that sort of thing? I do. I believe it's the least simple three letters. Well, I'll pop that. Use that shit. Thank you. You'll get you actually a really huge chunk off of the month or the year. And, yes, Tristan will get a little money in this pocket. Go buy himself some more young L.A. T-shirts. And Jared, we're them. We're them. And I'll see you guys next time. All right. Good luck, sure. You need to make a camera birth. Yeah, you're pushing the hatchet out of this banana dual handle. It's not her nouns. A nod. What is it? It's a banana. It's a banana. Okay, so it's for another. No, you say it the wrong. A run boom. All right, Mario. Dude, I want to go to a rap battle. But like as soon as they start rapping, I'm like, fuck, did you say to me? Hold up, hold up, hold up. I thought when this rap, I'm sure Friedrich out of those. Dude, dude, do you all the time? Yeah. I would bow it to a part of my hair for it. I mean, it's like, what even does that mean? I mean, like, if you're gonna wear young L.A. With your not from L.A. And I'm not forgive me. I'm sorry that you're not that young. Me, what even, what even are you doing? It sounded like a leopard. Yeah. Look. Uh. What even is a leopard con? In the Bible of States, very clear. Yeah. Jordan here the man. I thought it was a boy. It's a me. A banana. Yes. It's named after you. Yes. I'm, uh, how you say, from Italy. Italian. Y'all are cool. You'll take jokes for a while. We did. Actually, if Italians don't take jokes well, it's hilarious. It's like, eh, a doctor like. I don't know what you were. How you say, yeah? I make a fucking lot. I'm like, just keep saying that shit. I love it. Still looking good. Back in, uh, now you know, going with us up. I'm here with Jay Fev. He's the man. He knows. Fev beverages that he's drinking. Outside Jared got me thinking. White shirt on. Clee young L.A. That freak. Oh. Yeah. Lots of radios. Lots of radios. So we just watched. Eat my. Watch as the average. Watch as the average. Watch as the average.

We're moving our shoulders as a sh**tload. I'm trying to use weight to me other muscles. We're at a 60's heading outside. Like, you're just trying to get it up. The f**k that's sh**t. If you can use less weight and get more out of it, why not? Yo, YouTube, what up? We got... Ork it. We got Dylan. We have the United States of America. And we have formerly Benusuela. And our formerly the Soviet Union, but since communism is objectively terrible, get triggered in the comments. We're here in newly minted American citizen, Lex Lewis is Dragon's Layer Gym. And we're going to train chest and we're going to do it science style. He's guys here. Our team full-romb lifers. They are the pristine epitome of unbelievable technique. Not sure you believe me. Let's go train chest and find out. Where's your feather? Where's the app? He'll be here. He'll be here. I have a feeling about him. Let's go train. Incline dumbbell press for Dylan. For Odeh, it's going to be flat dumbbell press. You guys are going to notice a few things. One is the guys are always controlling the eccentric. Two is they call for a super deep stretch. When guys stop, trying to keep their elbows in for pack activation or whatever, which may have its merits. A lot of times they'll stop way above if you go that extra three inches. Guys know that shit is important. One and a half inches for me. I've never been hard around a woman. Now the music stops. In any case, it's important to get that extra deep stretch and I'm coming out of it to get that full range all the way at the top. Various parts of that are more important than others. The eccentric control is the most important. The next most important, passively tied for importance is getting that deep stretch. If you come up and go almost all the way to lock out no big deal at all as long as you can replicate that rep, you're good to go. You don't have to lock out your chest reps. If you feel a better stimulus to fatigue ratio with that partial bottom arm, if there is zero excuse for not stretching it back some of them at the way. And I eat a ton of, the guys doing it are totally cool. We all have a different way to train, but I eat, eat, eat. When guys stop their chest presses needlessly high motherfuckers, I know you can go lower. And I know you can get that deep stretch on the pecks. And I know that'll cause you more soreness and growth and everything that is good. So next time you want to do partial reps, do them at the bottom and set up the top. We can harden yourself that easy. If the target the pecks that easy, let's go do some more. There it is. Holy shit. Holy shit. There we go. As if another very old you can't help. That's like everything. Good stuff, man. They don't know better than me. I don't know. I'm just looking at cues for my stuff. Now, don't do this a lot. I try and do it up. This is my client for two years. Still not client for a while. Guys, I just thought it was my client. This is spoiling us rock. Hot team, that's not the perfect fuck. Now, press your press by pushing your chest up. You're moving your shoulders as a ship, but we try to use weight to me other muscles. Nice indeed. Press with your chest. Chest in the ceiling right now. It's going to be harder. Chest in the ceiling. Big chest. Big chest. Yeah. Yeah. Good breath. Good breath. All right, go to the sixties. Go to the sixties, I'm going to accept it. I want you to push your pecks to the ceiling and just use your pecks as your press. And you're going like this. Like, you're just trying to get it out. You're fucked, that's it. Yeah. If you can use less weight, you can get more out of the why not. Yeah. We're going to milk that pause, definitely pull it. Brapped. It was possible for us to take each to do even better the last time we've had big chest. Yes. Well done. All right, all right. I think about using the pecks right off the bottom. Chest to the ceiling. Here you go. Big and hard. Just push me. Big chest for a ceiling. To the ceiling, to the ceiling, to the ceiling right now. Yes. Smooth. Sailing, sealing, sealing, sealing, sealing. Good breath. Better. The last time we trained together, month and a half ago, Jared had mentioned something to me about like watching my technique. He's like, you know, how many more weeks do you have? And he essentially told me like, I had to check and go failure with the target muscle. And then I actually like wet my chest kind of cave down and went beyond it. So like this last couple of months, I've just really really focusing on maintaining good technique throughout the whole set. And it is so much harder. Like a 3-R-A-R with like not allowing your technique slipping is like the amount of effort that takes and like the amount of focus that takes. And just like the actual attention you feel through the pecs. And so like front-down tries to absolutely. I mean like the it proves the F-R right, but it also is just like if it just takes a lot more conscious. So I could be honest. Even with the 90s, you did really fucking good job. I was like, oh yeah, thank you. Yeah. Reach. Reach. There. Reach. Oh yes. Beautiful. You did high, you did high. So that you're hard, you got one of cave in. Yes. stable. It chest. It chest, it chest, it chest, it just hold time. Yes. That was your one. Reach up. That was your chest. That will be fucking shoulders. That's it. Yes. Yeah. Your flat dumb old press. So flawless. That if flat dumb old press was women, you became hard to actually know this month. Thank you man. Appreciate it. All in terms. Funny enough, did I improve a ton? Might technique execution. Have to get a huge shot out to Shimi. Shimi fucking had. This is going to get out of it right out. I thought I had good technique. On to the trim with. Respectively, they did flat and inclined dumb old press. That's finished. That's a 10 to 15 for that. That was time to probably again, more such a 10 to 15 with the flat machine press. We are using a model of the dragons layer. Arguably, maybe not even arguably the best human boss is. And there is this press here called the Matrix Press machine, cost $1,000. It's a fucking great machine. Slight downsides is that I personally don't like converging presses. I think because most of the emphasis has to be on the stretch anyway, the converging kind of takes away from that. And makes you focus on a contraction de-lessly. Also, if you're a large, especially for dealing size, you can run into your own packs and you can't even do a good contraction. So that's maybe not ideal. Also, the handles are independent. They can move independently. It's cool to do one arm presses through to that sort of thing. But there's a bit of a coordination problem. A really a lot of your band with goes to coordinating the movement. And I would rather be one fixed pressing implement. So you could really gear in instead of having to do the stability. Otherwise, the machine height is very, veryable. The seat is very, very valuable. So you can get a really good stretch in the handles. Really comfortable. And the machine is very smooth. So if you come to dragons layer, try the Matrix Chest Press, really fucks with it until you can get the deepest stretch in the world on hold it for a minute. Or minute, good. Got hold it for a second each time at the bottom. You might find some really good results. Big stretch before. Slow, big chest. Yes. As if another. Chest up. Chest up. Yeah. Stati. Chest. Stati. Let's go. Big chest. First the chest. First the chest. Then the chest. Finish. Finish. Slow. Yeah. Nice and slow. Big chest. Hold the chest, tomorrow. Good. Nice and slow. Oh, shit. Yeah, well, 19. Yeah. Chest up. No. Mine do. 15. You guys will notice that on a lot of the lifts, we cue the guys in by saying, as if another. As if you're going to do another concentric, you load the eccentric to prepare and then you let go of why. It's not a big deal. But if you did all the work for the concentric of the weight is in position, to give you an eccentric, amazing stimulus. That last drop, you're already muscle fibers are very close to failure, all the fastest motor twitch. Units are on, they're active, their muscles are ready to grow. That last eccentric half rep super deep and pause at the bottom. If you do it properly and expose your chest to whatever muscle you're doing, then it's a lot of hypertrophy for half a repetition. It's probably the most productive half rep that you do, the eccentric part of the rep, that you do the entire set. So why just let it go? Right? I guess terrible analogy is like, you know, finish off a date and this girl leaning in like, uh, and you're just like, and she's like, okay, we put a made out and you're like set up the whole thing and we just fucked off. Now there's a whole point of a date making out of the unknown. You know what I'm saying? There's always date number two. But if you set it up, might as well kick it. If you're already here, last rep might as well kick it. Don't go out there making out what people about their 생각 got down. Get out of here. Don't sink. Mark, it just makes more. Chest up. That way, just that way. We're shaking. We're shaking. Chest in it, chest. Protect me, good tech me. Slow. That's the flow. Open up, open up, chest up, chest up, chest up, shoulders back. Yes. Pause. Yes. Oh, good stuff. It's not fighting the, uh, David. Yeah, the last year of, I don't know. I thought it. I thought it. It's good. It's not good. You're terrible person. Try some push downs. Yeah. Super. Yeah. Down the body. Almost back. That way, you're gonna touch him behind your body. Yeah, good stretch. That way. Almost back. Chest up, rest down the body. Or it should be very close to no way down. Lock it all over, we got all over. We got all over, we got all over, we got all over, we got all over, we got all over, we got all over, we got all. One. One more. Back, back, chest, back, back, beat stretch. Try some, try some, try some, try some. Slow, big chest. Perfect. Well, harder, yeah. Way different. Yeah, thanks. You guys want to roll up your sleeves for the last sets here. I think the people need to see something. Okay, okay. Show us the doubt too, man. Roll up the whole card. Number. Go, as if another, go, go. Go, as if another, go. Right. Load it, slow. Take your time. Pause even. That's enough. That was back, really. Yes, sir. Yeah. Uh-oh. I was back, boom back, boom back, boom back, boom back, boom back, boom back. Down the body, right there. Woo! Yep, come on. That was back, come on, little body. Back, back, back, back, big stretch. Come on, go. As if another slower, ultra slow. You can do me a little back. Yep. It was really impressive, like, super, I want to least see me at a pro-card in the natural. That's a pro-card. You start doing drugs before you get your natural pro-card. I'll pull the drugs out of you myself. I basically told them the same thing. Manually, through your veins. Oh, really? Now you gotta call them, I was like, just load it up, bro. Dren, first cycle. You are ready behind, brother. Yeah. These guys have started age 15 nowadays. Yeah. We've got a start. First start, right? Yeah. Yeah, so, so, ain't a war, right? Excellent. Listen, we've got it all. Natural pro-card. Competa's natural for a pro-band. Yeah, like, the goal. Me and Skobu, Jarabadi, or like thinking back going back and forward between like, why would we be the best move? Yeah. And the goal is 20, 24. For the goal for WNVF? Yeah, great. And then we're working like great. Beautiful. Beautiful plan. I love that plan. All right, folks. Dylan, porque, Jared, Jared, Jared didn't do anything. I didn't do shit. These guys worked. Notice they got their pump covers halfway off, from whatever that makes me. Might be the food. Yeah. So, difference between drug free and not drug free, I'm kidding. There's a ton of different drugs. Just, yeah, he's drugs. He's drug free. Technique, technique, technique. And you notice they're working hard. This is a normal, normal week of training, not equally for them. This is real RINR training. When you pay attention to technique, it's top the shit. Do your best. Technique is number one. Then later, the effort, then later, the sets. And please file these guys on social media. If you want to learn a ton, they post tons of informative content. Tons of content about lifestyle, tons of content about how to do the exercises, right? And they're walking anatomy charts. And they're walking illustrations of basically perfect technique. Jared and I look up to these guys. We want to believe good technique. I don't even look at myself anymore. Matter of fact, I haven't looked in the mirror in years. Should I not? No. Don't look at the mirror. I don't like the person that scares back. Don't get mad or that you think. See you next time.

I don't know if I'm f***** really zealous with the 50th week for week 1. Oh, I forgot to open my mouth. That's not usually a problem with parties. It's definitely not. Here's the thing. Parties aside, which I've never been to have read books about them, we're going to have a real party today because Mr. Jared, for the ISB pro, is going to guide you guys through a workout for the whole back that you can do with just one rack. Do you like backs or racks better? Comment below. In any case, I'm the f***** out by the hair because I'm going to be doing my own training. But you're boy, you're going to slip into the scene every now and again, like I do. Da, da, da, da, da, da. What do you think? Well, you're my guy here, so I can talk about what I'm going to do. So generally, squat racks do have this bar here for pull-ups. If they don't, what I would suggest is setting this, make sure you have a lip. Don't have a squat rack that doesn't have a lip. Setting these is highest possible. And you can put the bar up there and you can use that for pull-ups instead if the squat rack doesn't have this. But since we have one, I'm going to use the actual parallel bar that is on this beautiful squat rack. But I'm actually doing a horizontal, if it's just pull day to day. Pull day, not pull, mic is or toe. So because of that, I'm going to do these pull-ups first. And I'm going to show you guys a good way to warm up four pull-ups without a pull down machine because obviously for this session, we just have a squat rack. I have to do pull-ups first because if I do all my horizontal pulling, I'm not going to be able to do very many pull-ups at the end of the session. So generally my session would be most of my horizontal pulling if I'm trying to emphasize the horizontal pull that day. And then I'll do some sort of pull down or something at the end. Again, doing pull-ups first because I will get like five if I don't do that. So I'm going to show you guys a good way to warm up for pull-ups if you don't have the pull down. Then I'm going to go into my pull-ups sets and then I'll go into my rowing and stuff like that. So I'm going to put this parallel bar. Obviously you probably have something you can stack up here. But again, I'm trying to use as a little equipment as possible for you all. This is going to be how I warm up my pull-ups. My foot's going to go here. I'm going to kick myself up on the bar and then do eccentric space basically. So first I'm going to do a couple of dead hangs. Stretch the left out a little bit. Then I will show you how I place my foot up here. Kick myself up and then do eccentric. Oh my god, the spider webs in this fucking place, guys. First things first, I'm going to do different things here. I'm going to retract. I'm going to do some depression, have the scapula. So you can do that as many times as you want. Two or three rounds. Then I'm going to go into the eccentric pull-up. I'll probably do two or three of those. Then I'll potentially with one or two regular pull-ups. Then I'll go into my sets. So really just depends on how warm you feel, how much warming up you think you need for your pull-ups, like the specific warm-up. And if you can do regular pull-ups. If you can't do regular pull-ups, you can stop in eccentric pull-ups where you're kicking yourself up and you lower for a good three to four seconds. So you would basically stop at this next part of the warm-up that I'm doing. That could be your vertical pulling for the day for your pull-ups. Also, I mean, it's not ideal. What if you have bands for assistance? You could definitely do that. Be safe when you get up here, guys. It's going to be very scary. I'm professional with this. I don't even have to use sport mode. So you can probably put this a little lower so that what you can actually just kind of kick up. Again, if you're going to do this for your final warm-up, you can just do a couple. That'll be your potential. For me, that's my last warm-up before I go into my pull-ups. Or before I go into my potential, set from our pull-ups. So if you're doing eccentric pull-ups for this session, that's your final warm-up, which is your fifth-inch-ation set. So you do two or three of those. And then you can go into it next and do sets of seven to 15 or whatever. Another exercise option. Jared's not going to do this one. He's going to show you some other stuff today. It's definitely possible. You've got to work the king's route and get this thing the proper width and everything like that. But you can do a variation of lat prayers with these. We're basically you swing down and you swing up. Now you'll have to adjust the height of this thing. But essentially what you can do is it all comes down to foot position. But if you can get some kind of lat prayer function going, especially at a higher angle, then it could be a good thing. Another thing is if you're much stronger, this is real challenge. So the weaker you are, the higher the bar goes for these sort of lat prayers. If you're very strong, I'm sure it's shit not this strong. So I'll do a fake demo. But basically you start off here and you essentially, you're going to lap pray all the way down and all the way back up. You'll be leveraged here. So it'd be like this. You come up and you come down. Down and come up. And big stretch and come up and if you get all your foot positioning right, it can be intense. It's going to require a lot of figuring out your foot positioning. It's definitely not ideal. You would prefer this implement actually move. But you can do a lot with that if you put in some time. Next, you want to be a full set. 7 to 10. It's really all I'm going to do getting a little heavy post-contest. So 7 to 10 rep range for the pull-ups. And then I will go into my rows and then an inverted row in 10 to 20 seconds. It will keep those arm всёm. required. there's a ruff i should have sl fry McC73, USA Yep ARC место Stacks I think we're gonna pump though! Good Oh, 16-in. Next exercise, we're going to be doing the bar build bent over row, going to my horizontal, pulling stuff. I'm going to do this regular bent row from the floor. Using 45, you could do all kinds of forms of this. You could stand on the plate for a deficit, just put 25 on to do a 25 bin overall. I'm going to stick to regular bent rows today. Three sets here as well. Before I go into the Intensity Technique, which will be an inverted row, which I'll set up and explain how all that works. But set the 10 to 15. Three sets are built bent over rows. Yes, I'm outside of this bar deck, but I still buy it. My ass is going to be in the squat rack and the bars are going to be out here, okay, guys? It's still one squat rack, one back attack. There happens to be all this stuff with like isolating the muscle to an excessive degree and not pulling in specific planes. We're happening the elbow around the rib cage. All this over-infoscessive really, my new probably not important detail. This workout is actually like how I trained for the first probably eight years of my career. I focus very heavily on just doing compound movements, pull ups, bent rows, deadlift, shit like that. So when you see all these guys doing super altered vans techniques, you should probably be asking yourself how they got there and not what they're doing currently because when you're advanced, some of that shit matters. Put in your beginner intermediate stages. This shit works and it's going to continue to work and over the course of time you're finding your technique and it works even better as an advanced athlete. So I still am heavily centered around like 75-80% and mostly heavy compound stuff, throwing isolation shit in there. So if you are doing stuff like this at home and you feel like, oh, I'm so limited on equipment, I'm not going to give the biggest I can. You're going to get 80% of the way there. Hi, promise. If you can get your technique down and you have access to shit like this, you're fine and you're not behind the curve whatsoever. Even gyms are fucking awesome. You can always buy a cable station if you need to. This stuff's awesome. You learn some stuff in school. We're in the real world. I agree. This shit is real. And you can't think you're way out of this one. No fucking Harry Potter nerd bullshit, bro. This is fucking war. You're combining two separate fatalities. Oh, I got you. You're being a hardcore bro but like with the ultra advanced, this stuff sucks because the bro's would love this shit, right? Yeah. But you don't love it. I'm a smart bro. You're smart bro. You're cool, though. There are two types of downsets that I actually programmed for clients. One is when they follow the rep range for the top sets. Just to stay within a specific rep range. Like I said 10 to 15. That was nine on set one. The more the out of it. And the other downside is to intentionally reduce load to go into a new rep range for like metabolites of frustration. So if I'm doing 7 to 10 at first and I drop the load by 20% to get into that 15 to 20 range. So I'm going to go ahead and do downsets because I fell out of the range. So probably take off like 30 pounds or something. Woooh, You're trombone. Jared's catching a flight he's sitting in the waiting area. I don't know if I'm working on this computer. They're like, pass on Jared. Jared Feather, you've been upgraded to business plant business class. Please receive your ticket, he's in. Jared Feather. Five minutes later, the station is in. All right. Jared Feather, IFBB pro, he's a close-weather. It's man, of course. He wins. So the next exercise. I'm going to put these bars through here. These little beams. I'm going to place this on top of them. The higher up it is, the easier it is. It's going to be an inverted row. The lower it is, the harder it is. Because I'm using this as an intensity technique. Obviously, that's generally in machine-based stuff. So I'm going to make it easier. Because I'm going to be doing either giant set or myroof sets. I wrote something down. Because I'm going to continue with these sessions since I'm doing them. For week one, I'm going to continue with these for the rest of this mess. It's like, oh. So what I'm either doing a giant set or myroof sets, I'll come back and tell you. So it's going to be a little higher. If you're doing this for added work or downset work from your bin over rows, you can put it lower. You can put a weight on you. You can wear a weight of vest, whatever you want to do. More barbell rows is probably better. But I'm going to put it about right here. Then do my inverted rows by placing this barbell over the top. So I'm looking to be a giant set. If it's a total reps, I'll try to rest as little as possible. Kind of like with my push-ups, I'm going to do giant sets or push-ups. Giant sets are really an intensity technique where you're kind of trying to increase the reps and not really have to worry about what you're getting per set. You're just making sure by the end you get the total number of reps. But if you want to add in a little flare, you can reduce the rest periods and that makes it even more painful. So I'm going to probably rest at max 30 seconds between my pauses and try to get 50 total reps on this first week. Next week, we'll get a 55, etc. So I'm going to get to it and don't really get a 1-2 much, get a bunch of been over going in pull-ups so we're ready to go. So for me, it's just generally an intensity technique I might do with a CD cable row or its just supported flexion row with lighter weight. But I had an inverter rows in a long time so I can get any really good pump. Oh boy. Probably have a big mid-trapped pump. Oh, actually my lats are pretty fucking, I'm trying to tuck my elbows a little bit. I've been fucking really zealous with the 50 for week for week one. Alright, we did it. You guys happy? You got a whole back workout and just one power rack. Good. Good. That expensive, my entire mess of cycle. Selfish. Yes, me. Look, a lot of you guys trained in just like a power rack at home. This is a sweet workout. And remember, if you vary grip widths, if you have a couple of different kinds of bars, you vary the height here, you vary the order of exercises. That's kind of a ton of workouts you can do. In each one of those, you do once, you know, for like six, eight weeks at a time, progress through a couple of the mess of cycles. When you stall or it feels not so great, switch some grip widths, switch some bars around switch some orders of exercises, switch some rep ranges up and then you just got kind of an infinity model work to do in here. Yeah, again, it's literally exactly what I did for the first probably eight years in my training. Have you compounded shit? I really didn't use too many machines. The assist is pull up to nice addition if you can get that into your garage gym. Outside of that, I really have a compound with a way to go for me. So you're getting quite a bit of stimulus and you're probably going to be 80% of their way there with your physique if this is all you have. Hey guys, your feather here. This is really terrible in personation. No, I know brother, I know. It's a test of your first. A pro body builder. I'm a little scared for other ice-beapro. And like you guys think being pro means I get contracts, supplements, people adore me. I get to be on YouTube, I get to have sex with a lot of beautiful bikini pros. That's like not it, man. I mean, yes, all those things are true to the letter. But at the end of the day being pro is a fucking bird and you guys, I wouldn't wish it upon my worst fucking bird.

Up! Three singles in your dump, one at a time. The f***s low. We only count the good one, Mark. I'm in. Folks, I'm Dr. Mike. This is my biological son, and RP expert Fizzic Coach, IFBB Pro, Jared Fathers, and boys he look in large. But I'm the only, only, the only, the non-pro here today, because Mr. Mark Lowbliner here is an IFBB professional bodybuilder in the 2012 division, and he's the man, and I actually watched him get his pro card, and watch him do a lot of things. Actually, over the years, but don't tell him, he's here to do a leg workout. I'm going to be instructing in the back, and I'm not tough enough to jump in with these guys. But Mr. Jared Fathers will take the team full-rom seed. And see if Mr. Mark Lowbliner can keep up. We're only going to do one machine today, and that is the Matt Winning belt squat. We're going to do some stiff leg ed ed lifts with it, and then we're going to do some out, myorep, match squats. What does that mean? We'll find out shortly, won't we? I asked you a f***ing question, Jared. Why are you, are you f***ing father son, dude? Oh, that one, I understand. It's just waiting till I get into my U.S. when states got damaged, or you won't be able to have a home here son. All right. We're just having a family squabble. You can do squats, and at which we will shortly, but Mr. Jared Fathers here is going to replace he's going to turn the belt squat into a stiff-legged deadlift machine. All you do is unclip the carabiner, and then you clip that right in there. Just like me. Don't turn it or other, you go. That's it. Boom. And now we have a setup to do stuff like a deadlift, and ask the gentleman more, I'm going to talk. You guys through some techniques stuff. We'll do a few sets here. Do you want to give that a show below here? Because I don't really want my caps next to his. I'll send over there, and you'll look at it. If not, Mike Matterazer has a child. I want your back to be a f***ing like this. I'm going to be in your lower back exactly. All the way down, and when you feel yourself flexing, don't do it. Just do it. Just chest up. Chest up. As you stay upright, you're going to feel your hands get really f***ed. That's how you know. Chest knees back. There it is. One more. Chest up. Chest up. Chest up. Chest up. Chest up. Chest up. Good. The rules of a stiff leg are the same. Fundamentally, whether you're using dumbbells, barbells, or machines, you want the bar close to you. You want your... Lordotic spine. This is not a athletic position. It is a lifting position. The only reason that we turn our spine, Lordotic, arched is because we're pre-tilting anteriorly. The bad way are pelvis wide. Because posterior tilt, it shortens the hamstrings. And anterior tilt, lengthens them. We want them pre-length them. So they are the limiting factor. So that as you go down, they pull apart. And that insane tension at the stretch is what provides hypertrophy. In order to keep this lower back arch, you want your tummy out and you want your chest up the whole time. So it's actually a good idea to look forward. And you're thinking of taking your butt hole and showing it to the ceiling like this. You're sitting back and down at the same time. Big chest. You're going to get nice and low. Your knees are going to want to come forward. Don't let them push them back gently. Not like this. That would be a bad idea. Just here. And as you go down, you're going to feel an insane painful tension. Your hamstrings. That's how you know you're doing it right. Yes. One more. Chest. These back. Yes. There you go. Oh fuck yeah. There's definitely a learning curve. To get into that phone. For sure. For sure. Slow. Big chest. Big chest. Big chest. Yep. Up. Beautiful. I don't want to hurt her. Slow. These are the chest on the way up here when you go. Deeper. Big chest. Yeah. Just up. And. Yeah. Oh. Did they grow? They're huge. Oh good. Think I. That's a big. Really. I should really just retire at this point. Some people will shake a lot when they're getting close to a. That repetition being very, very proximal to failure. And there are a couple of hypothesis of the wide happens. But one of the reasons they think the shake happens. Is when you are trying to gain a leverage advantage. Some destabilization can basically shake you into a better position. For example, if you're deadlifting in your right at your knees, if you just stable a crank on it, it might just stop. If your body is shaking, it might get it just over your knees. And then you can crank out the rest. If you ever notice someone especially untrained doing Brazilian Jutsu wrestling for the first time, someone fighting for their life like an animal or a human, they'll do this. At the very tip of whether getting choked out or whatever. And that's to destabilize the opponent and wiggle out or wiggle through. So when you're pushing a muscle hard enough, the body goes into fight or flight mode and goes, okay, start wiggling. So we can wiggle the fuck out of a situation. That's really about the best idea that anyone's has. Feel that. And up, good. But back and chest up at the same time. Slow. Chest. Chest. Chest. And up. Ooh. And that's that. This goes away. And now convert into about squat. While the guys are resting, let me guys give a master class, you know, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Master class. Sit on the belt squat. You guys will notice we have a lot of plates for a lot of mats here. My wife is four foot 11. I am five foot six on a good day. And we want the highest forces to be closer to the bottom of the lift. If we stood on this thing, we would neither get full range of motion without these extra plates. Also, the weight would be leveraged to lowest at the bottom and the highest at the top, which is backwards. You want a deep stretch at the bottom. You're going to stand wherever's comfy, basically over the device. You're going to want to make sure you're not falling forward or backward too much. And then, here's the big deal. Your number one priority is to keep the heatals and toes on the ground at all times. Your number two priority is to allow your knee to travel as far over your toes as possible on the way. That gives you maximum quad stretching utilization. Priority number, last priority three is to make sure you sink all the way down to the bottom and sit there for about a second and then come up. And the fourth rule is go down slow. These things can you really lean into them? Yes, I wouldn't. Just use them for stability. If you can't get out of the bottom of one rep, you can pull yourself up and save your life. I wouldn't pull all the time to first floor. You're not here to train arms or lats. You're here to train your legs just for stability. So here's what you're going to do. And then get a good stance. It doesn't match much matter if it's wider near your arm. You can't take two near your stance because you're clipped your dick right off your body. But if you're female, I guess you're going to do them. JK, these things are going to rub and it's going to be annoying. So a little bit wider of a stance, toes pointed out. Watch what I do. I sink in. Oh, sorry. Last thing. My back is going to round. Typically in a squat, that's bad because there are forces going through your spine in barbell squat. In this, there are no forces that just don't go through the whole hip. So the back is entirely out of the equation. You can 1,100% round your back. You don't have to have chest up all the other cues. It's just the lower half of your body. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to go down really slow. This is the actual pace we want in real training. Notice how deep I am. Heels down, toes down, Ultra deep, sit for one second. Come up. Slow. Letting the knees slide real far forward. Pause. Up. Slow. Controlled. Knees forward. Pause. And up. A nearly ideal thing to do on here is my erect. If you do my reps in a squat with a squat bar, having the whole bar in your back tires you are so much, you're just going to gas right out. You're going to get 12 and you're going to get a 3 and you're going to need zero. With this thing, because it's just the belt, you can always come up and rest here for a few seconds and then re-ragen go back down. You're going to watch as we do these sets. The guys will do a few reps. Rest for a bit. Do a few reps. Rest for a bit. Brutality. Three more. Oh yeah. One more. Slow. Slow. Big moves. One, two, three. Rest a bit. Two left. Oh shit. Up. Two times failure. Two times failure. Two times failure. Two times failure. Two times failure. Two times failure. Good stuff. You're going to be doing it. You're going to be doing it. You're going to be doing it. Yeah. You're going to be doing it. Absolutely. That's how much we use. That was nice. I'm going like seven to ten range for most of my heavy compound. Yeah. That fuck range. Yeah. It's a back. Slowly. Slowly. Wait. Heels up. Good. Again. Down. Go. Slow. Control. Up. Two more. Go. Go. Slow. Slow. Slow. Up. One more. Again. Slow. Slow. Wait. Stay tense. Up. Down. Down. Down. Down. That was fun. Another shake. That was my. My tank shaking. This is motherfucker. Scott, can you get the container? Your hamstrings of veins running across. The fuck is up with that. Might be good light. Yes. There's only good light there. It is good light. It is good light. Jared. Which you up to, baby? Don't you try to. Hey. Why don't you come control it over here while doing this. Bell spots. Just go to the hospital. Rest. Breathe. One. Up. Up. Up. Rest. Breathe. Nice. One. Up. Up. Rest. Breathe. Nice. Long time. One last. One left. Power. Go. Go. Rack. Beautiful. Holy shit. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Let's see if we can get a total of about 15 reps here. All of that up together. I think you got it. Here's the thing really quick. Your technique from here to here is excellent. Your technique from here to here is very good. What I want you to focus on is when you get to here it's going to suck dick. Go slow. And then pause. Okay. If you go from here to here quick, you're missing out on the best part of the movement. Okay. I'm going to troll it. It's going to make it every tip I give you is the opposite of strength training. It's going to make it harder and harder. Would you like harder, don't you? I love harder. Heels. Yes. Up. One. Again. Slow. Heels. Up. Last one. Come it up. Take your time. I want you to sit back on your heels deep and sit there for two whole fucking seconds. Begin. Slow. Sit. Up. Back. My man. Quickly get yourself out. Up. Up. Up. One more. You got this. Slow and controlled. Slow and controlled. Slow and controlled. Up. Again. Go. We're here to fucking push it. Go, go, go, go, go. There's no rest time. Slow. Slow. Wait. Up. Down. Slow. Up. Down. Slow. Go right now, right now. You don't need your legs for anything. If you fall, you fall. Up. Up. Last one. Go down. Slow. Down. Slow. Push up. Beautiful. We're going to sit down. Just right here. This looks like nice but. I need insulin. It's in birthday game. All right, rich. Up. Up. Back. No, yes. Good. Good. Yep. Two more in your dump. Go. Go. Let's try again, Jared. You got this, mother fucker. Hell yeah, one more. One more. Make it slow. Low. Make it count. Two whole seconds at the bottom. One, two. Up. Yes. Good. Up. Yes. Good. Up. Up. I felt bad. Up. Oh, my nipples aren't. Oh, yeah. That's hard. That's. I never had that reaction from like day. Yes. We. Oh, fuck. My dick's already says about as good as you can. It's already. It's just trying to get hard all over. His nipples. You can see my dick. Nothing. You look fucking good, man. I think you so much. Mark. When's the first time you realize that men can just be beautiful. You just want to look at him. I wasn't very. I know. So, so from an actual serious standpoint, the human body is more active. You're saying it gray. The first time. The first time I saw Flex magazine, I was 15 years old with Doryniates on the cover. And I saw the hamstring greenness. Yeah, some weird shit. And for me, that was when I'm like the human body is capable of amazing things. That's when I decided that this weightlifting thing is something I'm really interested in. Yeah. No, that's a good answer. Jared, how's that work out for you? Jared has asthma. So proving that he is my Jewish biological scientist. That's just a good approach. Three Jews. He's more or less three Jews walking to a gym. What happens? That's about never happened before. My back. Anyway, it's been a huge pleasure having. Thanks for putting that out. With my bullshit and. Yes. Absolutely. Whatever Jared is, guys, make some sense out of this video. See you guys next time. Thank you.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike Isrtle here with Renaissance Pure Disation. Today's video topic is one of the long topics in our long series of specializing on a specific muscle group. And today, finally, your patient weight has been rewarded by the gods on high. Especially the gods on low would be the devil and other sort of demons. Your patient has been rewarded. Quads, quad specialization is the topic. First question is why would we specialize on quads? Why can't you just train them normally? Totally fine. If you're training your quads normally and they're grown like weeds, hey, you just keep doing what you're doing. If you want to specialize, there could be a few reasons you wanted to do it. One, normal is not good enough. You want your quads to grow faster. For no good reason at all. Another one is you could just want your quads to be bigger than they are proportionally with rest of your body. That could be just because you want enormous quads. That's fun for its own sake. And two, your quads might really be lagging behind especially like your upper body or your glutes and ham's and calves are really big, but your quads are small. That's the awkward look at right now. So you want to train quads in order to really really excited against. And the cool thing about specialization is that if you limit the training of other muscle groups to some extent and you're really trained to live in crap out of a specific muscle group to some extent, then it allows your resources to shift towards supporting that muscle groups growth. Specialization is kind of like your number one ultimate. I'm going to try as hard as possible to grow this particular muscle effort. Whatever it's going to take, I'm going to put it in there. Right. Tier one priority versus the idea that you train, all your muscles relatively similarly. And then you say, you know what my mackards is just not growing like the rest of my body. Well, that's because you haven't tried this. This one weird trick. So what is the weird trick? Well, there's tons and that really tricks. But the basics of specialization, the very reason why it works is a couple of things and they're both the reasons why it works. And they are the things that actually specializations composed. Like armor on a tank is really thick and hard to penetrate. And that's also why it works. The reason it's there. So nothing penetrates it. You folks are familiar with penetration of all kinds. I'm sure you know what I'm talking about. I was talking about penetration testing in computer security, perverts. All right. So a couple of things we have to do if we're saying we're specializing. One is specificity. We're going to take the quads in this case, but really the supply is to every muscle. And we're going to choose exercises that we deem by some rational method to be the best exercises we know of for quads. We are going to choose modalities that we know correspond well to quads training. For example, heavy straight sets might be the thing that really gets us going. Or we know that my or ups work super great for quads. And we know dropsets maybe don't work as well because our lungs are super. The thing that ends up being a limiting factor and there's not a lot of quads training or lung training, cardiovascular training so we could keep those on the back burner or keep them away. We want to stick to our most powerful modalities that work really well. There is a time and training to experiment with other stuff and see how it works. Specialization is not that time. Specialization is the time to use the stuff you know works really well, but in an enhanced manner. And of course, that involves techniques. Like when you're doing a particular exercise, you're going to alter your techniques such that it hits quads the most. So for example, if you're squatting and I can squat back and down as much as you're just going to squat straight up and down. Letting a knees come forward, really taking load for the quads. And this affects things like repetition ranges. Right. Some time as quads respond really well to alter heavy. Sometimes I'll try to light sometimes in middle. If it's all three for you, then you can use all three ranges. But if heavy heavier heavier or lighter works better for you. It's probably good for you to focus more on that range during a specialization phase. Because again, we're really, really, really trying to grow our quads. But we got to use the best weapons that we have. Next, we have to use those weapons early when we are energized and fresh. So if you want to really focus on your quads, it's not a good idea to do stiff like it at first. And then calves first and hamstring curls first and then glutes. And then OIA quads that's right, a hate training them. So I put them in the end. Now in sense, you get too tired and your systemic fatigue limits your muscles ability to contract and stimulate growth. Your local fatigue. Actually, contributes to growth. So that's what we want to be limiting factor. So in many of the days of the week in which we design our program, maybe not all, but many. Quads are going to be either first or second on the dock and every time you step into the gym. That sucks. If you don't want big quads and your whos and you can't harden up training quads, damn it. Like men used to when they were men back in the third year here, the 50s. Unless you're good men. The 30s that 19 10s are real men not like today with TikTok. In any case, quads trained fresh quads trained with their best tools. And it's been shown numerous times that at least in short timesgales several months, higher frequencies that you can recover from generally tend to work better than lower frequency. If you really want to muscle the grown out, at some point the fatigue usually have joints and connective kind of takes off and hangs out and needs to be brought back down. So it's not really sustainable to train with all trying frequency. But the quads, if you want higher frequencies, don't train your legs once a week. That's not a like specialization plan. At least two times a week, quad training and sometimes three. The example I'll give you later is three times a week. And since quads really sap your systemic abilities, they contribute the most fatigue that any muscle group in the body by itself contributes. Like if you just train quads, you look a certain different way than if you just train ham's or just train back, you're the most tired you're the most dilapidated. And thus if you want quad training to go best with specialization, and you want to be able to do as much quad training as possible so the quads locally fatigue and that's what's stopping it from doing more. You're doing the most that the muscle can handle, not the most that the system can handle. You're going to want to bring down other muscle groups to maintenance volumes as the system fatigue isn't over one by them as well. So if you think of your resources, recovery adaptor resources that you have as a pie, if you're going to cut a big ass slice for the quads, the other slices are going to have to be smaller for your other muscles. Very straightforward. You know it's like you cut yourself a big slice and then grandma's like, oh I love cake. It's my birthday and you're like yeah grandma, here's a spoon full of cake. You're old, you don't need to be eating cake. Here's a smell of cake. What what's that? Don't have your sense of smell anymore? What's just called a nursing home then by locked up. Why would you ever speak to you grandma like that? That's between you and their computer screen in front of your face. So higher frequencies, awesome. That's going to impose a shitload of fatigue. So we're going to take some muscles, put them on back burner, how many muscles? Well here's the thing. Since quads have a shitload of systemic fatigue, I would recommend taking the number of muscles you think is going to be enough to lower to maintenance and add one group to that. Right? How many muscles typically in my experience do you have to reduce to maintenance level training? Which is like roughly a third of the volume. G-Wiz, you know, probably two or three if they're the average size muscle. So what I would say is if you want Crod priority, take chest and back, put them on the back burner, shoulders, biceps and triceps. Three muscles, but they're smaller all in the back burner. Quads on the front burner, hands, calves, and glutes on the back burner, totally fine as well. Ultimately, you could be insanely system-systemically prepared and be able to layer in tons of quad training without going down and all of your volumes for all the muscles. Or even many of them. But I would say is air on the side of going easier and more muscles. And if you're like, wow, man, I punished my quads that was great training, but honestly, bro, I think I could have done a little bit more back in chest and been totally fine. Hey, next time do it. But you don't want to do is do a situation where you like lower the other muscles just a tiny bit. And then a third of the way through your quad muscle cycle that's super specialized. You're like, man, I'm systemically just cashed out. I don't even want to be at the gym anymore. But how are you going to train quads? Arguably the hardest muscle to train with combination of how much amplitude and pain and external load it has to be used with. You want to give yourself all the advantages. All right. So when you're constructing your specialized plan, I would give some thought to two time or three time a week quad training frequency, three time as well. I'm going to be demoing here. And of course, ideally put the quads fresh and put the rest of the legs or some of a providing stuff on the back burner. That's probably a good idea. I mean, it's volume roughly a third of what you normally do for exercises. I mean, technically the answer is include all of the highest FR exercises that you know, you know, the top FFR exercises. But to me, that looks a lot like a core of leg presses, hacksquads, and freeweight squats or Smith machine squats or whatever. Sort of compound, heavy-ish, high range of motion leg movements. They're supervised to the quads seem to be the best SFR movements for me. And even if they tie other muscle other exercises first, stimulus to fatigue ratio, what is termed a raw stimulus magnitude like the sheer amount of stimulus they can make for get about fatigue can also be a lot. For these things like leg presses and hacksquads and and various types of squats with a bar in your back, they tend to also be very high raw stimulus magnitude, very high RSM. And if you happen to be a little bit resistant to quad growth coming easy to you, those high stimulus exercises usually the ones that make the big difference. Because even if you have a really high RSM exercise or sorry, high SFR exercise, stimulus to fatigue ratio, it could be like the total stimulus isn't that high, but the fatigue is very low. So you end up having to do looking in thinnity amount of volume to get the same growth. Yeah, it's survivable, but it's boring. It's fucking, it'll just depress you. It's kind of like someone telling you, like, hey, here's this video, obviously, to come dated hopefully within the next few years, but someone could say, hey, you know, you wanted to drive from Detroit to Chicago just to run away from Detroit is a good enough reason. Here's this solar power electric car and you're like, how much is gas? And it's free. The fucking car is powered by the sun. Okay, this is perfect. I'm going to use it. Someone's like, look, how fast are the car going? They're like, 15 miles an hour. Like, how about the fuck? Right. Um, now if you get a Tesla or something that's powered by plug-in, then you could say, how much is the fucking gas? And like, the gas is not cheap. Right. How fast doesn't go like, raw as fast as it's eigenstabbing the panel and trying not to die. Oh, okay, sweet. So if you really have to get to Chicago fast, sort of in an algae, or if you really have to build my quads, Tesla is your better choice, even though that it could be tied on price of gas or relative to speed, you fucking need a lot of speed right at a pay the price. So if some of these exercises are hardcore, compound moves squats and leg presses and all sorts of crazy hacks, squats with a four-inch motion, there's a reason for that. Because they can drive the biggest stimulus and sometimes that just raw ability drive stimulus is what's holding somebody back if they're unable to grow their legs traditionally. Right. Now, if you would like, you can pepper in some like extensions and lunges, if they have a high stimulus to fatigue ratio for you, some people adore leg extensions and think that short-step walking lunges are blocked or quads. Right. If not, they'll be doing. You can still stick to the basis. Set numbers. As usual for all these videos start between two and six working sets for quads per session. Basically, I would stop at whatever feels like a really pretty decent pump and feels like you got nice and tired and stimulated the muscle, especially with something like quads. This is a muscle that is amenable to getting very, very sore and the quads are so big and strong that they damage their own connective tissues quite readily. Not damaging a bad way, just damaging a way that's realistic. Right. If you are like test firing a huge jet engine, it's going to burn the test facility up a little bit. You'll have to scrape the walls. Right. Just what quads are. Because that's the case. I would in the first week or two stop very comfortably, a little earlier than you thought, soon as you get a decent pump stop. Because then ideally you'll get just a little bit sore. You can recover. You can hit that neck session. Because remember the quad plan we're half for you today as a sample is three times a week. You can't, there's no new king the legs at any point. Your legs have to recover for next time, which happens every other day more or less. So start on the easy end, let the summation of the total volume of the week. Your quality of each set and session, your proximity to failure or psychological drive, let that do the work as opposed to 10 sets per session because you'll just fucking never recover from that and you won't be able to do as much quality work. It's the difference between mass gaining on two pizzas versus six meals a day. Could be the same calories in those two, but you're going to eat a pizza in a half and be like fuck that. You're going to get so fucking full. You won't eat the rest of the year just fall asleep. And then what you didn't do, jack shit. Also the quality of the pizza's macros is not as high as the quality of the macros in six meals. Actually quite a good analogy. I'll be patting myself on my incrementally hairier shoulders. Do you guys have any solution for body here by the way, but just don't know what to do. And hopefully in the comments you guys can help me out. Let's see who only watches the video that far to miss the joke that I. I didn't almost everything there was to know about hair removal. And yet I embrace my Eastern European ancestry nonetheless. That's pride. All right. Something you'd know nothing about. Camera. I know you guys feel like I'm talking to you and in my hat I really feel like I'm talking to you as well, but I'm just staring at a weird lens. It's almost like talking to one of those squitty things that kills people and fishes them out of the matrix. You know, the camera doesn't look like there's no soul in there. Scott, a video guy can we get like a human face stapled in so I can pretend I'm talking to somebody. Justin Bieber. Easy money. All right. Loading and reps. Here's the big thing. You want the rep ranges to give you the best as a farce. The most tension in the quads, not the knees, not the hips. The most burn in the quads and high reps. Humongous pumps. Humongous levels of just quad fatigue and perturbation. We're like, holy fucking noodle legs. That shit. heavier is not better unless it does those things. So if sets of six are amazing for your quads because it feels like you're tearing your fucking quads into bits. Amazing. Sets of six it is. But if sets of six only makes your knees and hips feel fucking hurt and your spine is tired and your quads are like, eh, it's not the right thing. Right. So use the rep ranges to give you the best stimulus to fatigue ratio. The most pump burn, et cetera. And the least like joint connective tissue pain and just cheer and nuisance and annoyance at the whole fucking process. If you're going to go heavy, go heavier earlier on average in the session and go heavier early on an average in the week such that you go a little heavier earlier in the week and more moderate and light towards the end of the week. That means you front load the connective tissue shit and then as the week goes on, you hit the muscles really hard but your connective tissue heals a little bit. So the next time you come back next week, next Monday, big connective tissue is something you're ready for because you're not submitting a tongue back to back to back to back. A really decent way to try to increase by a small fraction, your probability of ingerating any one time is to consistently session after session, train heavier and heavier and heavier. So we prefer to go heavy light lighter, heavy light, lighter, heavy light, lighter, all gets heavy over time. But within the week and between weeks, you get this heavy and then relaxed, heavy and then relaxed kind of effect. All right. So that's just setting up the plan. How do you progress? Set numbers. You start at whatever and then you essentially figure out okay, am I sore and really tired in my next session of training? So Monday, I did quads, I did three sets of squats. Let's say Wednesday, I came in and before I started doing hacks, squats are as I started doing the minute I wasn't sore at all and I barely even got sore to begin with and I felt so fucking strong, holy shit. Well, that's sweet, but that's a little bit more showing off than it is doing the hard work. You should feel the burden a little bit. So next week instead of three sets of squats on Monday, try four sets. So add a set if it's really, really easy. If you were barely healing on time like you got sore but you're just healed today and today is the time to train and if you feel nice and strong and recovered but if I asked you like, hey, what about 12 hours or like, nine and nine? 12 24 hours, I was not ready. Then what we're really doing is stimulating as hard as we can until we stimulate it again to recover and then doing that process over and over, that's really almost ideal. Don't change your volumes that. I'll get into a groove where my technique gets a little better every time. I put a little bit more weight on the bar a few more reps and what ends up happening is start quad training with three sets in a session over the course of two weeks that work up to five sets per session. Let's say and then three weeks later, I'm still doing five sets per session but I'm still getting justice fucked up just to sore just as tired because of the qualities improving. So we don't use sets as a driver of progression. We use sets in an order regulated way to ask your body, hey, what do you think you can heal from? And your body goes five sets, Mike's that there it is. We're not trying to challenge it with sets. We're trying to get the appropriate amount of stimulus delivered. The challenge comes in within each set doing a little bit more weight and or a little few a few are sorry, greater number of reps session after session week after week. If you are sore when you have to train again, go back to that workout before and in the next week that workout happens reduce. So if I did four sets of squats on Monday on Wednesday, I was doing hats, squats on my note not recovered. Still feel my knees still feel my quad still feel I should next Monday, don't you dare to four sets of squats? Do three sets of squats and that'll be more than enough to get your go. There is really no polite way to scratch your junk. Here's there. You guys have a struggle with that, like you're in a sort of public place, you're sitting in an airport, listening to your headphones and like flights in 30 minutes. Look, you have to fucking scratch your dick because it's itchy for a hey, whatever reason that's private to me. It could be a lot of reasons. It could be no reason at all. And then you think to yourself, on the one hand, what kind of person reaches down on scratch is Mike clearly like scratching it through the shorts. I'm not putting my hand under the shit, but even over the shorts, someone could be the people I've children. You fucking scratching your dick, they're like, what's wrong with you? You took fucking zoo? But at the other hand, I have a niche you dick. Are you gonna come fucking help me scratch it? No, and I gotta go all the way to the bathroom with my luggage so that it can simply scratch my dick nonsense. We have a genuine conundrum. So if you want to vote in the comments below, here's a hypothetical. You're a roller rink, all genders, all ages. You're putting your skates on, sitting on one of the benches, plenty well at place, at families around. Dick starts to get itchy. Do you fucking scratch? You go to the bathroom, weird bathroom skates, and then you take your roller skates almost all the way to the bathroom, and the ladies like, now a skate, now ranger skates in the bathroom. You have to take off the fucking skates, so where do you even put them? It's a serious mystery. Wait, wait Einstein's asked back up. Einstein answered this shit. He was on his square. That was easy. All right, in any case, reps in reserve started around three reps in reserve. Continue to progress all the way to close to failure. Obviously not total failure. I'm squats that are free weights because you'll die. Don't do that. I ask squats to do a leg press unless you have a really trustworthy partner. In order to make things more challenging over time, I would add something like five or ten pounds each time and or one or two repetitions. Now, the repetition adding is interesting because if you add load and you stay at roughly the same rep range, the stimulus to fatigue ratio tends to stay pretty much the same. If you start adding at sets of 10 and you eventually get to sets of 15 by adding reps towards the end of the month cycle, you look at be a different stimulus of a degree. If you had 15, could just be too high of reps to really get you what you need out of that workout. It's just not enough tension, et cetera. So with repetition additions, be aware of that. Be aware of that. Load progression is a little bit preferred because of that. And of course, load progression is super fucking easy on all these machines and all these weights. You're not like, oh, well, I can't progress because I don't have small enough weights. Like you put a one, two and a half plate on the side of a leg press. And if you can't progress week to week, bad and two and a half pounds total onto the leg press, get your done progressing. And it's time to go do one of the many other beautiful things you could do with your life. Well, they don't have all free new weights. Try playing the violin. I heard it's easy. One point I was actually a violin prodigy. It was H5. I played every Scott once a violin type of shit. Sonata is that a thing? No way, Sonata. As far as I know, Sonata is a type of a Hyundai car, a good one. But anyway, I did all that stuff. And honestly, it guys to be completely honest with you. It was fucking boring. It's weird to become the best at something. So, how was watching cartoons most of the day? And the other day, times of the day, I was like, whatever kind of shit. Yo, yo, my mom was there. He was like, bowling to me. I was like, yo, yo, yo. Easy. I love crouching tiger and drag. I should was the bomb. In any case, that's how all that works. Now, you may be thinking to yourself, gee, whiz, Dr. Mike, that sure is complicated. I wonder if we could see a sample program. Good news. It's right there. This is not something you have to do. This is just to get your idea juices floating. If you have too many of those that you go to the hospital, the doctors drain your idea juices. It's a tough, tough state of affairs. Monday, hackswats. Three sets in the 10 to 15 rep range. Three rounds. There we are. Of course, this is all first week. After that, we have high bar squats. Two sets in the 5 to 10 rep range. Hold on. You said heavier first with the fucker you talking about. This is a bit more of an advanced split for somebody who's so strong that ultra heavy sets of 5 to 10 squatting is just too systemicly fatiguing for them. And because so many other muscles can come into play, glutes lower back, add actors, it's not specific enough to the quads. So stimulus to the quads is, and the total system fatigue is, ah, because it's super heavy. So what do we do? We pick hackswats in the 10 to 15 range. Still pretty heavy. Very mixed stimulus to the quads. Not as much fatigue. Then we go to regular squatting. Our quads are so tired. They become a huge limiting factor for us. We have to use less weight for sets of 5 to 10 than normally wooden squats. That reduces our systemic fatigue substantially. But our stimulus is quite high now because all of our repetitions are real close to failure for our quads. Never mind the fact that because you already have a pump in your quads, your mind muscle connection will be better than ever. Give this a shot. It will fucking work. Do you have to do this this way? Absolutely not. It's just one way to do it. Wednesday, you come in and you do four sets of hacksquads. But notice we're conserving hacksquads, because we figure okay, we got regular squats, hacksquads, leg press, and most of you guys train in regular gyms. This is not half that much leg equipment. So you're going to have to be conservative literally and make sure you get all of the shit you want out of each piece. Which means sometimes many times you'll be using a few exercises several times a week. But in order of pro variation and stay safe, I would alter the repetition range since that earlier in the week when you use the exercise that's heavier later in the week when you use the same one and slider. These hacksquads would be sets of 50 to 20 reps. You can also modify them potentially to be a little bit slower on the eccentric or do a pause where you don't do an on Monday. Just that little bit of variation pays huge dividends. It's a great movement. You get nice and fucked up by Friday healed, Friday, you're like in a position where you're pretty fatigued. Your knees and hips and stuff have taken a little bit of a beating and you want to do some higher repetition work while at the same time making sure to stay the fuck away from beating up your joints. No problem. Two sets of like extensions 20 to 25 reps each. That fucking blows. If you've never done that before, you're lucky. If you're going to do that soon after watching this, I'm sorry. But I promise it works. That's what I. That's why I tell all my clients. That's why I'm Southeast Michigan's most successful lawyer. Yeah, you guys think I should get into law? I can make the fucking scumbious law commercial ever. It's got the video guy right down. Like extensions for two sets, they're nice and pumped as far as quads are concerned and then we do barbell walking lunges. You can take normal long steps, but if you take slightly shorter steps, it's even better. Super deep wrong for the quads. One step is one rep that's high count. So 20 to 25 reps is 20 to 25 steps. You can even stop every now and again when you're running a breath and or your quad structure frees up. Wait for a little bit. Take three or five breaths and then keep walking. That basically transition these lunges into my reps. Hold the fucking balls. It doesn't take a whole lot. And because you might not be used to lunges, I would just start them with one set. And that's why it says one set. Because it start out with lunges if you do any more. But by the way, prepare free glutes to get sore because lunges are so effective for the glutes. They'll fuck up your glutes anyway. Eventually your glutes won't get a sore and your quads will be the thing that gets the most fucked up. Now, what would happen if we were to pretend to do this routine and then in the week before D-load what would the volumes look like? Realistically, this does not mean you have to shoot for them. It's a matter of fact. That would be stupid. Monday, well, you know, we started with three sets of hacksquads. Now we're in five sets. We started with two sets of regular high bar squats. Now we're three sets. Eight sets of of of quads. That's that's a fuckload. That's a lot. Hopefully you can recover by Wednesday. We're now you do seven sets of hacksquads. That's quite a bit of an increase. But if you can recover that's great. Leg extensions for sets, barbell walking lunges. Three sets. We're talking about every workout here being seven or eight sets. That if you are pretty strong, if you are training hard, if you have good technique and you're pushing yourself, then most people will not be able to sustain such an effort, which is why it's the last week before the D-load and then like right after you finish barbell walking lunges, you smoke like the longest cigarette of your life. Like how a French soldier during World War I, when they announced the final ceasefire piece, he's still in the trenches. How long would it take him to smoke that cigarette? He'd be like, like that. Because fuck doing that anymore than once every two months. If you can sustain it, amazing. Most people can't. So add your volume as you see fit. If you're able to recover from a little bit more at a few sets here and there, do you re-get to? The goal is never to do as much volume as possible. The smallest amount of volume that checks all the boxes of I'm training as hard as possible. Same thing. All right. Now this all sounds really good. Specialization sounds fun. It sounds exciting. It sounds like a quadzinger to grow. Finally, you'll be at the uh... It's got to be, I want you to name me a random social place. Coffee shop. And that one girl that always orders the mocha lot of whatever the fuck, and you remember verbatim what she orders because you're that kind of insell. And all of a sudden she walks by you, she's like, excuse me, and you're like, oh I'm sorry. And you shake with your coffee and step back and she turns to you and she looks loyally into your eyes and says, I just noticed your quads for the first time. But then what if she do next? She just does this. You're like job of the hot. It's gross to do even to myself. It's wrong with people. You can't go to a fucking Starbucks and have a normal conversation. In any case, you'll have big quads. You'll be happy and you'll ask the question of, oh I can't, I can't, I can just keep specializing in the answer really is yes. So you can specialize for three NASA cycles in a row. Increase difficulty, that's one mezzo. You can do that two more times and then you will probably be in shambles. Your knees and hips and everything else is going to be like fuck that. Your quads are going to be resisted growth. It's going to take so much volume to even stimulate your quads that your systemic fatiques in a cap you and you're going to be like that. Nope. No can do. Then what you can do is take like a two week active rest phase where you barely train at all. Come back and you can just do another quad focus mezzo or take a low volume phase four weeks longer so maybe you're going to act of rest phase total of six weeks. Come back and do another quad prioritization mezzo. You specialize on quads again changing the exercise a little bit, changing the rep range a little bit and then running more or less a very similar template again. If you want, you can play around between the mesocycles with some rep ranges and some frequencies. So you can start your first mezzo relatively heavy more sets of 5 to 10 to 15. Maybe just twice a week training legs and then as the mesocycles progress, second and third you can add in a third workout in the week and do slightly higher reps than average potentially even a fourth. The most I've ever personally done was three quad sessions a week, Charlie and I tried that a while back and it seemed like we had to restrain ourselves so much during the two workouts just to make the third workout possible and the workout wasn't even that hard that I'd like blah so we just went back to two times a week and for us that's more than enough. But if you can survive three and three is easy and you can recover from it and if you'd have to do like more than 10 sets of quads per session three times a week in order to even grow at a fourth workout it's totally fine. Most people do anything properly will never need a fucking fourth workout three times a week for quads is probably more than most people can survive but if you want to try to play with increased frequency that's totally cool. Right? Active rest low volume phase feel free to repeat or just go back to normal training or go back to maintenance work on quads and try to bring your boots up but anyway this is something that all you need is two weeks of active rest and you can repeat it anytime you want in most cases. So how you know if that woman at the coffee shop was if your eyes and her tongue really did the things they were supposed to do you may just run to the gym right there and there and this continued to specialize on quads. Meanwhile she is DMing you and she's like just come over makes me love to me and you're like hold on babe. Quad workout RN. Stupid fucking internet revisions. Why mind such a bad mood today? Good question who knows. All right that was all good fun but maybe you want to learn more so check this out we got free shit right below in the description of this video free exercise video library because you're like what the fuck he mentioned a few quad movements but I want to know some more we've got a bajillion of them click it's me narrating a Mr. Jared father I've been pro actually doing the demos we have a muscle group train grind guide where it's like 10 pages of very small text of everything you probably never wanted to know about train in your quads so if you really want to dig in and make the best plan you can that's the place to look if you're like wait what the hell is SFRRSM? Motherfucker I hate science fuck this shit cancel my RP subscription hold up just get to the hypertrophy made simple video guide it's like 16 videos each one's like eight minutes long and it really brushes you up on the terms gives you a real basic understanding what the hell we're even doing so if you rewatch this video having seen that or you watch that really quick before building your own plan you're gonna be like ah I think I know a whole lot more than I thought it did and then of course we have a hypertrophy book scientific principles of hypertrophy training people have described it as the greatest thing to ever occur I would say the microwave is still a better invention put the book is close and it's not because my butlers need salaries so that they can show up and drive my Lamborghini's for me butlers don't work for free that would be immoral on many levels and so I have to sell hypertrophy books so feel free to buy one it's a nice book I think I had a hand in writing it and if you want to build a customized training solution for yourself for quads or for anything else you can go the harder way you learn a lot and you can build it yourself or you can go the much much, much 50 trillion times easier way and have mostly our computer program do it for you with our custom training template builder also in the bio that costs money but it's just not that much money and you can reuse the program like as many times as you want because you can rechange the exercises around so if you build a custom training template and it works really well if something you can use for like a year or so and it costs like fucking a hundred bucks so maybe it's worth right you know if you don't want to spend money here just just leave we're trying to run a business things have been so hard okay guys I'm gonna go cry lot cry with me I'm a state feel my universal vibes and I'll see you guys next time for another one of these you

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pyrridsation, and today I'm going to talk to you about how to train when you have no equipment at all. No gym, no friends, no family, no one to love you, no wonder whispers sweet nothings in your ears you fall asleep, I got creepy. So if you don't have anywhere or with anything to train, no dumbbells, no barbell, no stretch you bands definitely know gym, what can you do, what should you do to put together a decent approach to training that can get you some kind of results, a few things. Before we get into the numbered tips, cardio is obviously still possible. So if you don't have anywhere to train, you can still jog, you can do all kinds of parkour if you want, cardio is you can definitely take walks, you can hike, so cardio is absolutely on a table, no problem at all. But what about resistance training? What are you supposed to do if you have zero weights, how do you train with resistance training? Well, turns out that there are tons of exercises that you can do that require no equipment at all or something that you don't think typically of as equipment, but you will still use as equipment. For example, you can do with no equipment at all just really a floor, you can do pushups. You can do pushups which are closer and grip and your hands stay closer to your head and you end up doing them called tricep pushups. They're like skull crushers, except for the pushup variation. You can get two chairs together and do dips in between them with your feet. On the front, on the floor, the chair dips are very popular, crunches, bodyweight squats. You can do lunges with your bodyweight, you can do scissy squats where you squat, staying on your tippy toes and you touch your knees all the way down to the ground and then come back up. You can do split squats, you can do single leg squats if you're really advanced and very strong. You can do calf races on any staircase that you have around or even some kind of ledge or curb with a stick for balance. That easy. So that takes care of a ton of leg exercises and a ton of pushing exercises. But what about anything for the back of the body? What about the pulling stuff? Well, all you need is a tree with quite a few large branches, relatively low to the ground, look round for trees, you're sure to find one of them somewhere. And then you can do all sorts of pulling. You can do pull ups. You can ratchet your feet down lower and do face pulls pulling the bar to your face to hit your delts and your biceps and your traps. You can do inverted rows on the lower branches to hit the rest of your back. You can even do inverted curls. You position yourself just under a tree branch, grab it under hand and depending on where you put your feet. It's going to allow you to leverage. You can do almost no gravity at all and you'll be able to curl your body into the branch. Doing an inverted curl, that takes care of a large fraction of your body. Pretty damn well. Not ideally, not optimally, but way better than you thought. Why don't have any equipment that needs a conduzero exercises or you can do a ton? Now you may be thinking at this point, I say, okay, great. But you've listed all the exercises and certainly there are a few more. But what if I run through all these? I mean, I got like one month or two of training, a mesocycle. Ideally, I want to switch the exercises out, but there's nowhere to go. Like you remember any equipment, you just push up as a pushup. That's not true. So that's point number three. By modifying your foot and hand positions, you can create new exercise variations that you can feed into your program so that you don't have to get super bored training with no equipment. Squats can be narrow stance, medium stance, or wide stance. Push-ups can be narrow, medium, or wide. You can put your feet up on a chair for pushups and all of a sudden do decline pushups, which are really, really hard and hit your front delts and triceps a little bit more than they hit your chest. There's a ton of ways in which to put your feet and hands into different places, including with poles, pull-ups, wide, medium grip, narrow, underhand. All kinds of options for you even if you have the bare essentials of the ground and a tree. If you cannot get access to a tree, I'm sorry. But a tree is required for part of this, or at least something you can hang onto that's at chest to eye level. And then if that's good enough, you can do rows off of it, you can do pull-ups off at center. The way you do the variations is this. You pick a variation at a time. You say, okay, I'm going to do pushups, chair dips. I'm going to do bodyweight squats, lunges, some rows and some pull-ups. That'll be a good exercise for me. A good exercise routine. Stick to one kind of grip for all those. Those are wide grip pushups, let's say. Those are wide stance squats, wide pull-ups. The theme is wide, randomly. After those exercises a few months later, get a little stale and you want to switch it up, switch over to medium grip for a lot of this stuff or narrow grip or underhand or whatever it is. Well continue to use the variations as long as they feel good and you're making progress on them. And as soon as they sort of sputter to a stop, you can then switch. That way if you have three variations wide narrow medium, even if you use one of them per month, that means you don't see the next one until three months later, which is usually long enough time for your bite at a field real fresh bottom. But typically it takes two or three months to really run out of steam at a variation, which means when you come back to wide stance squats, it could be six months or longer after you last did them and they're really going to feel different. They're going to feel new. They're going to feel fresh and you're not going to feel in comfort by this total lack of variation in your program, which sucks, right? That's what you solve with a gym. You have tons of toys to play with in just a tree and the ground is just not a lot of stuff to do, not a lot of variation. Next question number four, what do we do about progression? Because this is a tough one. In the gym with weights, progression is almost implied. You just lift more weight. But in a situation where you're lifting your body weight mostly outside or in a enclosed room with a tree in it, interesting perspective on that, how exactly are you supposed to progress? Well, got a couple of hints for you. First of all, you can add reps. Let's say you're getting really close to failure for sets of 12 in a pushup over time. So you can go to 13, 14, 15, 16. If you can do sets of 16 in the pushups, everything being equal after you're able to do sets of 12 at most, you got more muscular and stronger and healthier. Typically, we say don't go over 30 repetitions because anything much lighter than that isn't optimal. But with workouts at home or workouts on the go with zero equipment, optimal is pushed aside a little bit and possible is front and as the variable that is best. And if it grows some decent amount of muscle for us or it makes us healthier in some other way, we'll take it. So what I would say if you're training at home, try to make your lifts challenging enough by leveraging your body against yourself in such a way that you can do less than 30 reps of them per set. But potentially, you'll have to go up to 50 repetitions per set and that's totally fine because it still has muscle growth potential. And for those of you focusing your first two or three years of training, it is a lot of muscle growth potential. So adding reps is great and now we know you can add up to as many reps as we would make 50 reps for an exercise. The thing is 50 strict, good high quality push-ups is something almost nobody can do. And almost everyone that says they can do it, you actually watch them try to do it and you're like, that is the worst technique I've ever seen. That's all half reps. You're bouncing off the ground. You're not locking out your elbows. Do real push-ups and they're like, oh, I got 27 and like exactly. So even if you're in really great shape, just adding sets and reps to push-ups to pull up, to bodyweight squats, adding repetitions can go up for a long time. And if you can really do 50 reps of those movements, a lot of times you're an unbelievable shape and it's kind of like mission accomplished. Another way to take what I just said is this, if you think you're in too good of shape to get some beneficial effect from working out with no equipment, you're probably wrong. And you're probably can challenge yourself even with no equipment at all. Here's another way to challenge yourself. We're just the rest time. Typically you would do a bunch of push-ups and you would stop and rest for two or three minutes. But now because you can't put weight on your back for push-ups, you can't do the bench process. It just has to be push-ups in home or push-ups on an outdoor setting where it's just the ground, you may rest for one minute or even 30 seconds or even as soon as you get your breathing back relatively to normal, then you go again, that repeated challenge to the muscles greatly sums up how much metabolites are in the muscles, the byproducts of their efforts. And those byproducts have been linked to hypertrophy improvements to muscle growth. So if you can challenge yourself with rest times, shrinking them on the margins a little bit every time you come in, for let's say a month or two, that's going to take a workout where you do seemingly the same number of reps and make it way, way, way harder, giving you more of a muscle growth stimulus, which is really, really good. Another thing to try is my reps. Instead of resting two to three minutes between sets, half some exercises in which you do 20 reps of bodyweight squats, close to failure, it was really challenging. You rest for another five or ten seconds and you go again, maybe hitting five to seven reps a few times over and over with minimal rest that can fry you up in the best way possible, causing a lot of growth stimulus. At the gym when you go train, you may only need two to four sets of heavy resistance, barbells and dumbbells and machines in order to drive home a muscle growth stimulus. That's cool. It's really good, it's why we go lift weights because they make a challenge for us in a small amount of time. However, when you're training by yourself with no gym at all, you may have to do more sets. You might have to do four or five or six sets eventually at the end of your program, potentially in a short rest time scenario because each set isn't heavy enough to drive the best adaptations for you to get as much muscle as you can. But we add more sets, constrain the time, we end up working just as hard, except we do more sets and reps, and less weight. It takes the same amount of time as we do at the gym, but you cram more work into that and thus you're able to get a very similar comparable response in muscle growth training. So someone can train at home and say, well, I did six sets of body weights squats and it really got my legs sore. Somebody training at the gym could have done three sets and got their legs just to sore and get them to grow just as much. So there's not really a solution with this added sets recommendation. It is a solution in some sense, but it's going to require you to do more work. You guys can kind of see where this is going through adding reps, to really decreasing rest time, through introducing things like my reps, through adding sets, we're making the stimulus harder because making it hard on your body is how you make progress. Another really quick question, you can ask yourself theoretically before you start trying to put together a program that has no equipment to access. You can really ask yourself the question of how do I make the lack of equipment hard on my muscles because that's what's going to get them to grow and it's going to get you to lose body fat and get stronger and all those great things. Another thing you can do is to decrease the mechanical advantage that you're experiencing. If you're really strong in your squats from a completely flat foot, you're using your glutes, your adactors, your quads, then you're doing more than sets of 50. It's not really doing anything for anymore. What you can do is try some scissy squats. Scissy squats, essentially push your hips forward and your knees have to touch down gently and the ground all the time. That creates a crappled of mechanical disadvantage for your quads. Take your glutes mostly out of the equation and all of a sudden as far as quads is concerned. That's a mechanically disabvenant, it's harder for the quads. That's a good thing because as the quads try really hard, they struggle and that's when they grow. So a lot of times you want to ask yourself the question of how can I make this exercise more difficult on myself? Put myself in a position in which I can't lift as much weight so that I have to try harder to lift the weight that I have because the weight is your body weight. It's constant. Another one is single leg squats. Does take some balance to do and you can't hold onto a chair to do them. But if you figure out that balance, you get something to hold onto. It's a really tough exercise. All of a sudden you're very challenged in a mechanical disadvantage there is. You took one entire leg out of the equation. Stuff like that can really really really help you. Point number five in the last point for this video. The critical factors to making gains. Inside the gym or out are as follows. And these are mostly tuned for outside the gym with no equipment. You want to make sure you check a couple boxes. One you want to get close to failure often in the same workout. With heavy weights getting close to failure for one set of hacksquads in the machine in the gym. That might be a really good stimulus. But with your body weight you might have to do three, four, five or six attempt at something sets in succession in which each one of those gets you close to failure. Then you're going to have a hell of a pumping your quads, a hell of a burn and you're going to know you did something. We have to repeat the stimulus more often because we have less load. Easy fact to understand. Next one is to take limited rest time. If you're long as you're good to go, if you're not breathing heavy anymore, you're ready to do your next step. That'll save you time in your workouts. It'll also hit the muscles in a fatigue state, making things more challenging for them, thus driving up their metabolites that they produce and probably driving up muscle growth as well. If you're in a position where you're doing two or three sets of something and you're like, man, I wish I had a gym. I could really hit my back better. Try three, four, five or six sets slowly working up over time in that matter for your back training. And you may find that one, you know, would just body weight inverted rows and pull-ups. Two, three sets like I do with the machines that have you ate in the gym, they don't do much. But four or five sets, man, they really do light me up and that's providing great growth. So don't be afraid to add some volume. You can recover from it because the loading isn't that insane. You'll be totally good to go. Lastly, just to think about this, try to go in there and make things tough for your muscles. Make your muscles try really hard. Make them have to slow down during their movement. You know that last set of bench press or last rep where you're really slowing down to push it, you should take your pushups and your tricep extensions and your pull-ups so far and your training that they start to grind. And if you can get your muscles to grind, you can probably get them to grow. Folks, if I can be of any more help, please check out the comments below. Ask a few questions. I'll try to answer them. I'll see you next time. Training for muscle growth is never going to be the same.

You got this, but put it down. Let's go. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. Up, yes, up, up. Try the way down, man. Go, slow, slow. The slow. The slow. I'm going. I'm going. I'm going. I'm going. I'm going. I'm going. I'm going. I'm going. Folks, I used to be doctor-by. Then I decided, after that, I would swear, but I can't. I'm chilling now. I took 18 zannies. Your boy's comfy in this hoodie. I bought him from Jared. Jared, thanks for your great zannie dealer. He's a your white trash roots. This is Conan. Yes, he is a barbarian, but he is also a few things. He is of many different nations and peoples and speaks no fewer than 9,000 languages. How many is it actually? 5,000 languages. 5,000 languages. 5,000. That's a lot. In any case, he is also a comedian. And he happens to be an IFBB-Zik-Close. That's it. And he's going to keep second two. The original, he competes against Jared, whether they're going to start hitting each other in the face pretty shortly. But before that, Conan's got to do a cosmetic thing called Get Big Arms. We're going to train his arms. They're already huge. He's contest-diting. He's law-on-energy. He says, let's see if we can get some less going at his expense right now. Our handy-dandy RP training app beta says that we have dumbbell-scall crushers first. I program them in myself. We're going to be doing three sets here very likely. 15 to 20 reps. Nice and light starting out. Conan is contest prep. We've got to start on nice light to get some heat going through the joints and then we'll go on to heavier stuff later. Not ideal for most of you folks training, but in contest prep, weird stuff has to happen. We're going to give you a ton, hopefully, of a really good cues for this exercise. dumbbell-scall crushers, let's get it done. And up, and one more, slow, keep them in and up. Very good, rack. He's already heavy. I would think he's pretty close to failure. So don't worry about the rep counts too much. Just really focus on quality reps. Get deep as possible. As it gets harder, you're kind of stopping really high. Keep your head back. That's a feeling like this. It's the... It's the... It's the great thing. You said you'd mostly cable, but I assume that we do a lot of press downs in the shed. So you probably used to this horizontal type of tries to make your shots. Really just hit an entirely different head of the triceps. I do just like all the same. I have to say cable and... Okay, a little bit more. Up. 11 elbows in. Yes. It's going to be hard. Up. 12 down. Slow, control. Up. Couple more. 13. Let's get 15. Slow. Right away and going. Up. Elbows in and the way down. Last one. Good one. Let's go. Come on, man. Slow. Right away and... Up. Go. Go. Rack. Good. Good. Good. Stop. Very good. It's just like... I'm not used to it. Sure. Yeah. But that's a good thing. Sure. This is my mood. Beyond comfortable. Well, here you go. I'm getting on comfortable. Okay. Elbows in close together the whole time. Yes, just like that. Now hit it. But not straight. Like... So elbows together. Yeah. Not turned not at all. Right here is good. It's easy for the dumbbell skull crusher to start flaring out a ton, cutting a range of motion. It's imperative that you try to bring your elbows close together. Especially on the way down. If you come out, you're still using try steps lot, but it's also more pecks. You want to make it more try specific by keeping your close and lock. And you really want to get into this rhythmic pattern where your elbows are outside of the equation. They're locked right in place. And then only movement occurs about the joint that it's supposed to be. Slow controlled on the way down. Good pause here for Conan. And a nice powerful extension. No wiggling, no weaving. Just the right stuff. 10, two more. You've got this. Slow. Up. Again. Slow. Put a troll. Elbows in. Up. Go. Go. Go. Brake. Good shit. Oh, nice serious. Oh yeah, good. Good. Very good. It's one of the different than when you do like a push-down, right? Yeah. We'll different. So I would say it probably smart to include some sort of vertical tries to exercise. Like whether that's a push-down or an overhead variation. And then also some form of a skull crusher. So if you start implementing that, you can probably see that your tries to get a lot thicker. Yeah. You like I said it's a good part of your tongue. That's a cable like school crush. It's standing next to you. Yeah. But this is a good. Yeah. Probably a good variation like something like this. I'm really good. Next exercise. If you guys didn't hear, we just had a low conversation about how he can potentially split up his volume in the future. So we were going to do two horizontal exercises for the triceps. The next one was going to be an inverted skull. And said I'm going to show him kind of how he can make that modification to a horizontal plus a vertical tricep exercise. Hitting different heads of the tricep or at least emphasizing them with different exercises. So the next exercise will, since this is horizontal, it's going to be a more vertical emphasis. We're going to do push-shounds with my reps. So I don't think he's done any sort of rest falls my reps recently. But he is one used to cables oftentimes for his triceps, which he just told us. And I don't want this entire workout because he is three weeks out from a show. I don't want the whole thing to be some sort of novel stimulus and just fuck him up and really interfere with his training. Again, three weeks out. He's been doing a lot of cable shit. So instead of just making everything different, we're going to go ahead do some my rep press with the press down that he's normally been doing throughout his last training block. And then just that the second area, what we're showing you is his alternating from the horizontal to a vertical tricep. Seven slow on the way up, slow. I hope that stretch for a second. Then down. And you can give a close to your body. That's the body, that's the body. There you go. Nine. Elbows back. You know, fight those elbows back. I know it hurts like no. Slow. Like, fight it back. Big push. Little. 11. Slow. One more. Big push. Slow. And then you're going to do another. There. There. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. Right. What's my. It's like a rest. Pause. So the first set you'll get what you get. And the rest of the set you're trying to match that. But you're obviously going to be really fatigued. So you're probably failed before whatever it is. It's a say 15. So let's see you get 12. You'll pause for like five seconds. You two more. Pause. Do another one. Just like a rest. Just like a rest. There you go. Put the body. Put the body. Push. Push. Good. Or is that the second? Rast the second? We have four more. We're sitting in. Futter in. Futter in. Three. One more. Chest up. Come on. Slow. Slow. Good. Very good. Three done with all of these. Want you to back up over here. Put your feet over there. And you're going to do push-ups. But here's the deal. Put your hands right here. Just outside of your chest. Come all the way down until your chest touches the ground. Go all the way up until you're completely locked out. That's a push-up, right? Okay. You're hip-stay nice and high. All arms. When you're done and you can't do this anymore. Come down to your knees and do push-ups off from here. Nice. Sounds good. We'll let you know when to do both. Two. Go to the body. I know it's fucking hard. But don't sacrifice technique. Three. That was great. Slow. I should close to the body. Slow. Go. Go. Go. If you're not going to do another slow, slow, slow, slow, slow, I was that slow-resist. Resist. Resist. Don't rack. Boss. Wait. Rack. All right. Three. You get that butt up. It'll be hard. Four. Slow. Up. Five. Again, Conan. Let's go. Up. Go to six. One more. God damn it. Slow. Go. Go to six. One more. Slow. Up. Up. Up. Go. Go. Rest a bit. Rest. Six. Sorry. Six. Three. Good God. And up again. Four. One last one. Slow. Slow. Wait. Up. Up. Go. Go. Get that shit. Rack. Good. Stop. Whoa. I don't remember when I did last time. Push-ups. Feeling good? Five sub times. Yeah. All right. I think we don't go away. Show me that shit. This is good. You see. Feel a sound pump. Very good. I can barely move my arm. Thank you. Keep your hands up. Feet close together. Come all the way down for the stretch. Hold. Slow. Hold. Slow. Just like that. Try-seps are over. Throwing in a try-seps are super pumped. Now we move to Biceps. Two exercises here. The first one being inclined dumbbell curls. You want to do is make sure that you're chest is pointed up. You set the incline just enough to give your real deep stretch in the biceps at the bottom. Come up nice and quick and athleticly. I would recommend pausing at the top. Just to make sure you can have a stable starting place for that slow, eccentric. You'll notice we want to come up quick. But control the way down. It gives us all the benefits of muscle growth. And the resultant happiness and connectivity with the rest of your community. Big biceps. You can run out. Grab a hug the dog, hug a rat the sewer, hug yourself. It's all too slow. Slowly. Yep. Three. Slow. Slow. Down slow. Good. Good. Shit. Holy fuck. Now we're talking. Now we're talking. Don't tell me it's burning. I'm not your guy to college. Boom. Slow. Last one. Come on. Squeeze up. Slow. Slow. The slowest. The slowest. All the way down. Right it out. Oh shit. Yeah. Ooh. That's one set. Coin unquote. One set. Six. Slow. One pain. One more. One more. You're here for the pain man. Yes. Slow. Slow. Slow. I was a breath. Very good. That's seven. And she can show all the way down. Three. Slow. Nice and slow. Slow. Leat the rep. Do not. Slow. Rast. Rast. Wait. Do one more real quick. And then we'll do two. One more right now. Say it up. Chast up. Go. Yes. Slow. Full rev cone in. All the way down. Fuck. Yeah. Rast it up and then two. You're doing great. Slow. Slow. Strong. Up. Yes. And then slow as ever. Control. Control. Control. Control. Go. Go. Go. Holy shit man. Yeah. I don't work. You got a little pop going on. You got a little pop going on. I don't know. Fuck it on the huge. Fuck. Right. I got a little pop. Yeah. Yeah. It's all fat there guys. Pure body fat. You're like a sumo wrestler or some shit. Right. Right. Folks. End of the arm. Work out. We're in the awesome lighting room. Here at Fit Club. Turn the lights on. We're going to see. How ridiculous. Connicking look. We have Easy Bar. Bicep curls. We're going to do three sets. And yes, they will be my right match. Which means whatever he gets on the first set. He's going to have to make the same reps on the second and third. Getting as many mini sets as he can to get the job done. Pain is coming. He doesn't have anybody fat left either. So no hope for him. Let's get it done. 12. Slow. Couple. You got this. You got this. You got this. Don't put it down. Let's go. Go go go go go go go go go go go go. Up. Yes. Up. And just on the way down. Slow. Slowly. Slow down. That's it. Rack. Excellent. Lucky number 13 again. Amen. Six or seven. Put the bar down completely. Rest in shake. 13 total. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Good. Good. Rest a little bit. Two. Come on man. Good. That's that. Yes. Go. Go go go. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. All the way down. Rack. Three sounds like such a small number with. Yeah. Today's workout will be six total sets of biceps. Yeah. It's just like. Whoa. Good. Good. Yeah. The pump is good. How's the, so like similar to your session? You do how many such use like 30? Yeah. I'm trying to send biceps together. Yeah. It's just pretty compatible. I do just a lot of different angles. You know? It's just like a pretty comparable pump to what you normally get. Yeah. I would say it's a bit better. A little better. Well. One. Wait a control it. Great. Two. Slow. Slow. Slow. Last one. All the way up. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. And then super slow. Super slow. It's not good. Super slow. Don't let me take it. Don't let me take it. Don't let me take it. Don't let me take it. Don't let me take it. That's it. Good stuff, dude. I'm just done. Good work. Dude. All I did was yell. So thoughts? That's good. The pump is real. Excellent. Yeah. Good. Excellent. My honest. Your, uh, these are all new techniques to you. But within a set you really caught on. You never rush the centric. You finish the reps. Amazing work. Very impressive. Uh, it's like you're a professional at this. You're a professional bodybuilder. I still maybe do some shows. Was even a little bit. You can even have shows. Or by a train one. It's really fun. Jared, what do you think? Impressive for a bodybuilder, honestly. Impressive for a bodybuilder because a lot of my fuckers do this kind of shit. Yeah. That was really good man. Folks. There are barbarians. And there are civilized men. Conan is an ex of both. And an excellent person. And this was a phenomenal workout. If you want big arms, Jesus, do whatever. Fuck he's doing. Holy shit. Well, that'll sign us off so you guys next time.

Oh God, they just... I'm not the hurt. Oh, choose this. I'm trying to set it up. I'm trying to set it up. I'm trying to set it up. Hello, folks. Myself, I am Dr. Mike. And today we have two special guests in an old person I'll introduce in a second. Our first special guest is Joycey. And she is an extraordinary, but kicker, supreme. She's like, I bet I can run through a workout that you and Dr. Mike cook up for legs. No problem. I want to even sweat. And he's like, well, I've got a shot up. Get me on your channel. If you ran to me, tail tucked between his legs. I calmed him down. We got her on the channel. She's like, what, hold up. I don't ever go anywhere alone. And we're like, okay, do you have like an agent or a manager? She's like, I have a defense contractor with me. This is Brandon. He has a PhD in mechanical engineering. And his job is literally to work for the evil military industrial complex, which keeps you safe. You hypocrite mother. I'll peep that myself. We are going to do legs, which might be in two or three exercises. We see how far these young kids get into this. Any last parting thoughts before you atomize the weight into the atmosphere? Did you bring your birthday? No, but there's a bag over there. So I know. Got a lot of nice bags. Shoot in these little eyes. You're a gym bag. Oh, you mean my bag. That's disgusting. Let's get into the workout. All right, folks. We are going to do a 45 degree back raise. Interesting call. Interesting name for an exercise. We are going to be doing it to target hamstrings. There's a couple different variations you can do. We recommend taking your machine and putting it on stilts. And the reason for that is we wanted to be pretty vertical so that more of the tension gets in part and during stretch. If you have a totally horizontal back raise, then the peak contraction is the hardest part. As you go down gravity pulls you less and less. If you're all the way down at the bottom, you actually get nothing. We want more of the tension on the leg. Part of the contraction, which is why we lift this up. This makes the force curve better for this exercise. Just don't make sure the shit. Make sure the shit doesn't slip out half or you threw and you kill yourself. Here's how we're going to be doing this exercise. You want to lower this platform so that it clears the hips so you can get actual hip rotation. You don't want to platform so high that it ends up being articulation of the spine because that's not the hamstring function. That's your spinal rack. So you're going to take your feet. You're going to push them all the way back to get a very firm perch at the top. And then you're going to lock your knees out or almost completely out. You're going to keep your lower back arched. You're going to descend slowly under control until a painful stretching of hamstrings. Try to keep your tummy out and your back arched and you're going to come up for the peak contraction. And slowly descend again all the way down and then come up. A way to challenge yourself with this exercise is the first few reps. If you're holding away it's all same. But if you're doing this with just body weight, first few reps you reach your hands out. To create a longer lever arm and more tension on the hips. When you get tired, bring your arms in. Shorter lever arm and then it's easier. It's almost like a mechanical superset type situation. Give that a shot and let's get started. Good. I want a more convincing lock out. Squeeze at the top all the way up. Yeah. Couple more. Two more. Look. And one more. And up. Throw the dumbbell down. Continue. Yes. Try looking up. Look up. Yes. For lock out one last rep. Go lock it. One more. One more more. You'll shake your strong. Let's go. Lock it out. Good enough. Good stuff. Not bad. We're getting out as always embarrassing. I don't have hamstrings to get out with. Alright. Folks. What you're seeing is we have them do a dumbbell. We tried doing a barbell but the supports are hitting that's unfortunate. They're holding a dumbbell here right at the chest. When they're done with being able to go close to failure with the dumbbell, we switch to dumping the dumbbell and just doing free because if the dumbbell weight is gone, you've bought yourself some more effective reps. It's literally, I think it's called a mechanical drop set or something like that. In this case, it's just a conventional drop set but it's a really cool thing you can expose yourself to doing the 45 degree back raise. The situation with people think, oh, I've got to tell you I'm done. In this case, if it's just as easy as dropping the dumbbell and you get three or four more amazingly effective reps, why not do it? Also, the stimulus to fatigue ratio on those reps is going to be really high because the mind muscle connection is already so set in. Typically, once you're doing something heavy, if you switch quickly to doing something lighter, the mind muscle connection explodes because your body kind of feels overqualified to do the coordination and you can really focus on torching your muscles. Give this a shop. Don't do too many sets at the beginning. You'll burn your hamstring right off the body and the corner will have to write that in this report. Patient, presenter, corpse presented with no hamstrings. Burn marks included. Let's do more workouts. Shut up, my full convincing lock out. Oh, shit. Let's go. Let's go. We're here to work today. But forward. Yes. Rack. Good. Stop. And the embarrassing crawl out begins. Oh, my. Awesome. Awesome. Good job. Awesome stuff. Awesome stuff. And awesome stuff. If you keep your feet a little more straight and you just get that because your feet kept going like this and you're turning because it was getting hard. You're trying to leverage yourself to basically make it easier. So keeping your feet here and trying to force your knees open. It's going to hit your hamstrings even more. You'll get less reps. But it'll be more effective for the hamstrings. Okay. All the way up. Seeing position hits open. Yes. One more track. All of your transition. Go. Hit it. Look up. That's your chest that way. There you go. Here we go. Hip so thin knees and position there. Yeah. Yeah. Look up. Look up. Saved it. There you go. There you go. Hip so thin knees and position there. Yeah. Look up. Look up. Saved it. That's it. I really felt it. Yeah. I was a modification. Made it more difficult. Yeah. Definitely more difficult. But keeping that feet. At least the toe. Yeah. Getting it from your knees instead is. Yeah. It keeps it on the same. Because like I said, it's just like, okay, these. I'm getting really tired of my hamstrings. So I'm going to start pointing my toes out and leverage myself to use. Maybe a little more glue or whatever. So just really really lock in place and get it from here. You're going to feel the hamstrings are going to get way more fatigued way more quickly. And then just a little drop the dumbbell at five reps a week after. No big deal. Okay. I'm going to get some of my strength. Because at least for me, I can feel like as my feet were going out, I was using more and more collout. Exactly. Exactly. All the way up. Yes. One more. Good one. Finish that wrap. And then as if another slow. Jump. Again. Good. Oh shit, man. This is all based stuff. Let's go all the way up and back. Yes. One more and you're done. That's it. Oh yeah. Good start. Good job. We need a lower. I don't know if I'm going to get out. Ha ha ha. Ha ha. Ha ha. Ha ha. Ha ha. Ha ha. Jesus Christ. One more. One more. Good one. Come on. Knees. All the way up. Yes. And dump. Good. There you go. Let's get two more at least. Come on. Forward. Cast off. Up. Come on. Up. There you go. All right. Good job. Oh, this is getting really embarrassing. Yeah. Kind of just kind of melt out. Just melt away. Oh, my back is so tight. Excellent. Feel free to lay down. Ah. Already. So soon. Oh, my back. This might be that tomorrow. This is so much harder in person. I'm going to be doing sets of, oh, I hope kind of 10 to 15 reps here. We will be absolutely doing some higher reps. This is a great exercise. My reps. This resting at the top. I'm going to be doing sets of, oh, I hope kind of 10 to 15 reps here. We will absolutely be doing some higher reps. This is a great exercise. I'm going to be doing some higher reps. This resting at the top of the pendulum is actually pretty easy. You get a whole back pad and you just kind of lean back, lock out your legs safely. And you can just chill for a few seconds and then do a few more reps a few more reps. If you're reps here, it's the big kicker for this exercise. The beginning of the movement at the very top. Once you unlock your needs, the force is insane. And then it drops off towards the bottom. Not the ideal strength. Perfect. Great variation to try outside of leg presses and hacks. You have to be ready for that force in position at the top. Otherwise it will collapse you. You can tell someone is doing a pendulum squat wrong when they just fall into the ship. And then rocket backed up and fall into it. Must control the center of the whole time, which is going to be a lot harder to do at the top. Then it will be at the bottom. It's going to heal like your quads of caring, which is exactly what we want. Let's get to work. Don't go anywhere. Don't you fucking reach for that hand. There is no hand. Chest up. Control. Control. Two. Rest. Rest. Rest. Last one. Begin. All day. Chest up. Slow. Slow. Up. There's a force. It's the... Ooh. You're going to be okay. Really stressed with quads. Good stuff, man. Great. Good stuff. Last one. Again. Control. No rush. Keep. Keep us one. Go. Come on. Go. Go. Go. Go. Up. We only do it for you. Holy sh! You broke the machine. Rest. Last one. Go. Control. That endurance. No bouncing at the bottom. Control. Control. Control. Up. Push. Back. She's like, I'm not doing any more. Hell yeah. The melt. The melt is up. Kind of a little more time. What do you just asked her? What do you want to lay down? Here. How do you explain her before you? What do you want to lay on this? We're doing this last roll. So I need to get the special. Let's go. Once you've gone, we bring it over here. After you're done, I'm here. You're going to walk up and there's going to be a little platform. You're going to step halfway on the platform and halfway off. You're going to throw your hands up like this. You're going to do bodyweight squats with a positive bottom until we say good enough. Strong heels. You go down faster. Control. Control. Control. Gentle touch. Up fast. Yes. You got it. You got it right out. No crawling. Stand up. You can do this. Very good. Stay as upright as you can. Squat down. Knees forward as good. Deeper. Deeper God. Come on. Good. You got to try. Come on. Come on. I'm going to do this. A couple more reps. Go. Up. Again. Down. We're at your back. Fucking shit, Joyce. You know what I'm talking about. That work. Keep your chest up. Squat deep. Up fast. Like an athlete. Down. Down. You got to go. This is where we come to get muscle gain. Keep your chest up. Keep control. Up fast. Up. One more. Down. Right away. Slow. Slow control. Keep your chest. Keep your chest up. Up. That's it. Like, Squid Games. We got my fuckers crawling over to the camera. Help me camera guy. Save me. These been instructed not to talk to anyone. Deep. Stretch. Pull. Go. Go. Rock. Rast. What you're going anywhere. One left. Fuck. You got it on there. You got it. That's good. Time. Begin. Jared's got you. He's right there. We're giving that. You got it on there. You got it. You got it. You got it. You got it. You got it. Speed. Yes. Rast. Boom. Up. So again, down. We're here for the pain, Brandon. That's why we're here. Up. Up. Down. Right away. Chest up. Chest up. Chest up. Wait for it. Up. Down. Keep your chest up. Chest up. Chest up. Come on. Up. One more. Down. You got this. You fucking got this. Keep it chest up. Up. You're done. Trash against. There. No. Trash against. My clothes. My clothes. I'll hurt. That's great, man. Can I throw up out of my quads? Oh, they thought they're going to pop. Oh, God. They just have a hurt. Oh. Jesus. Oh. Let's try sitting on. Oh, my God. I've only thought that like in my calves. You're a fucking machine. You're a fucking company. You just do the work of fucking hurting other people because you're the fucking man. Folks, sometimes the outro's right themselves. Brandon, joy-see. Would you guys think of the workout? I'm pretty tall. I didn't throw up. Yeah. Nobody threw up. Nobody died. That's mostly victory. Close. But it's still journeys out. Jared. That's great. They freaking. Good job, coach. I took some but. Folks, it has been a pleasure having you on the channel. Go into the world and be excellent at your professions. And also marginally more fit after this workout. marginally. All right. That's it. Folks. See you next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NSOM's Pyridization. And today we are going to talk about the five rules of abtrain. Now it might also help if you think of these, not so much as hard rules you have to go by, but really, really helpful tips and hints to consider doing your own train. So here we go. Rule number one, normal repetition ranges, apply exactly as well to abdominal training to make your abs bigger and stronger and pop out more and give you more function as these training ranges do for every other muscle group. You ask anyone in the gym, hey, I want a better chest, what do I do? So it's 10 man, I want a better bat, sets 15 to 20, whenever anything between sets a five and sets a 30 repetitions, grows the most muscle for how much fatigue it imposes, and then sets a three to six, gives you the most strength. And then when people go to abs for some reason, the game and you just need to do planks for like two minutes at a time, or like a thousand crunches. Sometimes more realistically we'll say, what's 100 crunches? Raps of 100, exactly what is it that I'm after? Some kind of weird non-sports specific, you know, strength endurance for it doesn't make any sense. Almost everyone trains their abs so they pop out more that they have ravioli abs, sets of anywhere between five and 30 repetitions and I'll even simplify it more. Anything in the 10 to 15 wrap range, just like you would for normal lifting works, best for abs, no weird wrap ranges are required. Next rule, full range of motion. For some reason, tons of people on the gym, curl like this, they do leg extensions with the full range of motion, they try some extensions, and when it comes to abs, they'll do it. So somebody's gonna meme that one for sure, I'll make it easy for you. He he he he he he he. All right, you do that. I don't know why. The abs have a huge range of motion from your hips all the way back behind you and your chest arch like this, all the way to your chest crunched and your hips all the way tucked in, a huge full range of motion, sit up and even a full range of motion crunch. There's a lot of wrong there. You don't have to do these little weird mini crunches, but if you big time stretch the abs out and you big time contract, you are gonna get more muscle growth and more of exactly what it is you're looking for from the abs. In addition to that, through a full range of motion and really good strengthening, the abs end up making you more resistant to injury through more of your daily life and any sports that you do. So people say, hey man, you need a strength in the abs to get injury proof. Let me do this. Strengthen them through the whole range of motion, you'll get way better results. Next, a huge tip to try, as far as exercise types, is the hanging knee or leg raise. Okay, so you hang, maybe with some straps, versus or something, or you do one of these things where it's one of those ab machines where you have the handle handle and you're on the pads. And what you do is you take your knees and curling your lower back, you bring your knees up towards cheese as close to your face as you could get them. And you might just come up to here at first, after you are able to do multiple repetitions where you bring the knees up close to your face and control the eccentric back down for sets of 10, which you are more, which you might want to start doing, is extending your legs out a little bit more. If you give me somebody who in one of those hanging machines can take their legs completely straighten them, lift them all the way from dead hang to all the way up, pointing themselves in a V towards the sky and slowly control that the cent for 10 reps, that person has gigantic or ravioly abs. Rule number four, eccentric control or death, I don't really mean death. What does the centric control? Once, let's say you bring your feet up in a hanging leg raise, if you just let them fall back down, okay cool, you get some good muscle growth and strength benefits from just raising them up, but you get even more benefit. Do you know what I say? Something like double the benefit from slowly lowering them back down, the eccentric lengthening phase of muscle contraction is probably more growth promoting than even the concentric that you got to bring it up. Now, we are usually in the gym really interested in check marking things and counting reps. They go one rep, two rep, three rep, and the way down at some level we don't care about, and at some level like, well, I do want the bar to go fast in the way down, so I have more energy to go on the way up. Same applies to abdominal work in its wrong. If you can quickly or at whatever speed go into the concentric portion of the exercise, if you slowly under control, lower the eccentric, it's going to cause, first of all, more delayed onset muscle soreness, which is a good sign of muscle growth anyway, and it's going to cause more muscle growth over time, more strength adaptations over time, and even this. Actually, more injury resistance over time, but you just control any centrics, a lot of times how your body prevents injury to begin with. So, if you slowly lower every single time, as well as coming up athletically, you get all of the benefits that you could do, not skimp on that big rule. Let me tell you guys about the RP high-perrophy app. With over 28 preset programs already in the app, you can choose to make your own, you can modify an existing program, or you can just run the programs, exactly as they were written by a person on this app, programs, everything for you. The exercises weights sets reps, frequency, the whole thing. After every single workout, every single week, the app adjusts to your unique parameters, with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now, you're pretty interested in the app, download the RP high-perrophy app today. Lastly, it's totally cool to do to do planks and holds in all those calisthenics. Mostly to get good at them, and for fun, and it will also train your abs pretty well. But it should very serious about training your abs as hard as possible, and as effectively as possible, a abdominal machines that can be loaded progressively, are probably better than calisthenics. For example, if you do like planks where you get your feet behind you, you're on the ground like this, and you're on your elbows, is that good for your abs sure? Of course, but what's probably better in most cases, is an abdominal crunch machine where you can set the selector to a hundred pounds, full range of motion, big crunch pause, slowly lower, big stretch, and again for 12 reps. The next week, you might do 13 reps. The week after that, you might start going to 105 pounds on your 10 pounds, it's that progression. It's a standardized range of motion. It's the tracking. It's the fact that it's a dynamic movement has a concentric and eccentric phase. It's not just asymmetric, all those things are big advantages, and remember, when we want big pecs, almost no one goes and holds pushups halfway down for a minute and be like, that's it, man, pec planks. Like what? But I thought the chest machine and the bench press and the dumbbells were more effective, they are. So if you want bigger abs, stronger abs, more injury resistant abs, abs that pop out of your t-shirt, have the ladies go, oh my God, what's up with this abs? My lady impression came out more of a game-an impression, what you know. It's a good impression, unless I think I'm good at impressions, damn it. In any case, if that's what you want, use the stuff that works progressively loaded implements that can be done through a standardized full range of motion for repetitions that you can count instead of like a time, but you could count the time. And definitely with loadable increments, so you can make it more heavy over time, get the best abs of your life, and finally go back in time, go back to high school, ask the girl if your dreams to prom, and she's still like, dude, it was never about your abs. I just hate your face. Getting in the time machine again feels really weird. See you never in 1982. Anyway, see you guys.

Can you guys hear that? Spring break is coming spring break spring break spring break spring break oh My god so exciting What you gotta get in shape which is why you're watching this video the all-in-compassing super guide I think it just beat a love a little heart love thing with that great how appropriate for spring break all encompassing guard to getting Lean jacked 10 everyone should fucking see how jacked and 10 I am and Fine as hell to make your spring break go as well as possible now we have eight things to talk about So be a meat potato's video So get your fork and spoon out. Let's get to it First we have to define the exact goal and time frame. There is a little bit of a mythology It's to how to train and prepare for spring break that of a few people get wrong So we're gonna clear the air there make sure we really really really know exactly what we're setting out to do We're gonna talk about the diet plan that you can take as a really good approach the training plan cardio plan then Point five is the vacation bloating problem because you can be in really good shape getting to a vacation Two or three days later of eating pure shit. Hopefully not literal shit. Otherwise. I'm not here to judge your vacation You will look bloated and terrible, but there are ways to make sure that doesn't happen It's a huge deal You don't just want to look good at the airport in cancun want to look good Well, we'll leave all the disgusting jokes for literally in five minutes when they begin Diet and training during the occasion because like you get there you're still hopefully alive for five to seven days And you might want to know how to eat and how to train so that you can let know Maintain as close to that really good look that you got when you're arrived as possible and We will absolutely cover you the sauce question for you saucy folks if you don't know what that means just skip over it No big deal and Number eight last point will cover is what to do after the vacation When you deal with a depression and sadness of coming back to Kentucky State University and it's Mid-March and snow is rotting the fucking trees out of the ground It's not cancun but it does have potable water coming out of the faucets here we go Defining the exact goal and time frame Big fact is that a thing scoffery guys that a thing could say now big facts You don't know what the kids say Who what up As as as as a hip and Scott the video guy gets we're gonna head it out all the other stuff. He said all right So here's the deal it is Totally awesome to be jacked and lean For spring break But you're very likely watching this video when we released it or hey a year or two from now great welcome back to the channel What's up new subscribers, but in any case? You got like four to eight weeks to get in shape for spring break fact Muscle cannot be added very quickly You can put a few pounds of muscle on in that time which is great for later But a few pounds of muscle doesn't exactly change your visual appeal at ton What does is something more like 10 pounds of fat loss? If you lose something like 10 pounds of fat It's totally reasonable within that four to eight week time frame especially closer to eight no problem 10 pounds of fat And also it's got the huge visual change visual appeal versus gaining even 10 pounds of muscle Which is impossible in these time frames unless you're completely new to training so really it's you know Maybe optimistically two to four pounds of muscle you can gain in this time and Versus 10 pounds of fat lost in a little bit of muscle gained there's no contest Getting leaner is absolutely the way to go for the best short term change So just to put kind of some Guard rails on what we're gonna talk about today It's really all about keeping your muscle on your body and getting leaner We're not gonna be like there's this is not the ultimate how to get jacked guide for spring break because That guide is something you should have been doing for like a year and eight months or a year and eight weeks before spring break and then you could look significantly different so With Four to eight weeks left hopefully you're seeing this video with not something like two weeks left and that case Just just be yourself and smile a lot the ladies love that sort of thing But not too much because then you look like a creep Geez, I'm really bad at this kind of advice I have no idea of never been a actor with woman but I've heard a lot of books about it So here check this out you can drop in four eight weeks in many cases 10 pounds of fat if not a little bit more And especially with proper water and salt manipulation which is what we're gonna cover later You can look pretty damn good alright put better much better than you've been looking in the weeks before this And that means that potentially you could have more lady friends on this trip make new friends airport Smile people get in the same cab same hotel same phone party Same love life In reality you'll probably just be masturbating with whiskey dick at four in the morning in your hotel room While your boy lays it down in the door next door the the room next door and you can hear all the shit That's how my can-kun trips work But you can do better you can do better and here's how you're gonna get in shape. So first the diet plan Real basic stuff four to five meals per day The core of the meal is a fist sized roughly You know like that in all the fisting jokes in the comments please. I got time for all that shit fist size portion of protein for each one And of course fisting practice is good to have on a spring break trip Maybe if you get into some weird crowds and cones crazy Two fist size portions of your favorite veggies preferably green veggies or something like that to get the fiber going It's a great anti-hunger effect it brings in tons of nutrients one to three fist size servings of fruits and or whole grains the healthy stuff More like zero or one if you really want to drop a lot of body fat you have a lot to go if you're already pretty Shreddy and you just want to sharpen up then two to three of these is great because you're gonna want to support training energy and so on and so forth Like if you're already pretty lean and you just kind of want to put the finishing touches on two to three servings is great If you have the energy and and the drive and the cognitive wear with all to survive the Almost exclusively protein and veggies only diet you can totally do that that will change your body really really fast Really profoundly it sucks It's difficult but it will work and it will make a very big change for your spring break So that's something to keep in mind so there's a range there you can choose On some combination of how lean do you want to get slash half to get Versus how much of you know wiggle room do you have like ostensibly still go to school or work spring break I guess just school You know you have to pay attention and past tests and stuff the instructors not gonna be like oh yeah, man You've got to f-line your test, but flipped it around for vernae because you're going to can't go in three days row have fun like that doesn't happen I mean that's kind of a faster I am not everyone's that cool huh so Yeah, it's all up to you a good suggestion here is start the diet in the first week with like two fistfuls of fruit slash Graams with every meal see how you do if you're like man I'm not even that hungry I love the results. I can do better drop to one fistful and then next week drop to no fistful So then the meals are just a fistful of protein and two fistfuls of veggies If you go it to and you're like, oh, this is tough diet I'm still getting shredded like stay at two or even bump to three We want to make sure that you actually succeed in your diet journey Starting at diet and after week just going and having 10 burritos then exactly prepare you for spring break although the burritos are large You know also all kinds of crazy shit happens spring break you got to be ready But the anatomy has to be ready right that down so number five Typically we would put fats in right healthy fats are a good part of a sustainable diet Notice it's sustainable this is not sustainable because it doesn't have to be It's four to eight weeks of dieting for your maximum ability to lose fat I would just take the healthy fats out so like the steak or chicken or beef or whatever that you have For your fistful servings of protein really will constitute the trace fats that you need Will you be having a great time during this plan? No If you're leaner and you don't want to lose that much fat you can absolutely do like you know like a two finger serving Of healthy fats good god We're in a spring break video that's clearly designed to get you laid more on spring break. I've already mentioned fisting out two fingers out Scott's video guy supposed to be a family channel Who proved this? Who wrote who wrote the script? The dream is gone as is the family. I don't see a family around it has got the video guy and an I in a dark room God that sounds like a terrible thing Also, there is no script there's a power point and it's right there so Yes, I do make most of this bullshit up on the spot tans are a long-weighted question in any case If you need help with the diet here's me up selling your ass The RP diet coach app 15 bucks a month in the first two weeks is free It was just lay this plan out for you. You say hey like I want to lose 10 pounds by this date go and it just goes Wham here's meal by meal all your macros you pick the foods it auto so it's it has pop up reminders to tell you when to eat Then if you're serious and you want to suffer a little bit the shit works like I wrote the code logic myself so you know should should work really well It's brutal it will take you seriously if you tell it I want to lose 10 pounds of fat It'll be okay my the fucker here's a little mouse My size portion of food you're gonna shit, but you will get shredded up for spring break Which is exactly an only water here all right next up the training plan I'm not gonna go into a ton of specifics on training because so many approaches work But the approaches at work have to check a couple of boxes and here are those boxes You should be training four to six times a week ideally because you want to make a full effort at this Right you don't want to be like hey Hey, stay so you do want to leave the phone party with me and come back my roommate terrible choices just like I kind of would but like your side-dulse just aren't like capped in our for me So I like bye And you're like fuck I shouldn't have trained twice a week, you know, that's a realistic scenario But in any case you want to look your best right and you're in college my fucking I've been to college. I'm still in college and professor. I know you're off shit to do get your home mark done and then go train Forty six times a week You'll make a really good visual impact can you train once twice or three times a week still get decent results sure But I'm trying to give you kind of the the best plan and you can always scale down from there if you want four to six days of training per week A bunch of different splits work like push pull legs works upper lower works That there's an example for six and a four day split for you Push legs pull upper lower works as well You can try all those splits but fundamentally if you hit every muscle Between two and four times a week and minimum two times a week Hit it pretty hard with three to eight working sets for that muscle per session So like if you're session for you know shoulders looks like you know four sets of ladder raises and then four sets of upright rows and you do that twice a week Like you're pretty much golden and remember the goal here is to increase muscle a little bit While really just providing this workout is an anti-cattabolic anti muscle loss stimulus so that as you lose your ten or twelve times a Fat your muscle stays roughly the same and maybe increases a little bit and so just a basic Effective program is all you need you don't need to get super fancy What about focus? This is a little bit more of a big deal Like there may be zero times in this world that like your plan soccer on the beach in Mexico and like you know Scott, let's see we make up some female names actually from Raleigh North Carolina I was like oh my god, I hear all my friends and I know it's your quads like so bad I'm sorry fellas. I'm sorry my quads are like my favorite muscle group on me I think it's awesome to have jack legs If you're trying to hit the statistical average of like spring break groupy interest Leg training is not highly prioritized. I know come get me in the comments and I deserve it I just blasted me against lifting god That being said, it's shit is true so my best advice to you and this isn't some shit I would ever be doing but also your boys not getting late on spring break so trade-offs Focus on your arms your delts Specifically side delts nobody ever looks at your fucking weird delts you're not a body going show chest okay, and it pains me to say this your abs Because like the standard for what is considered a fuck boy physique is actually quite low You just have to be lean little baby arms and a baby chest and some delts and just like do the shirt pull thing and like you have like a four or six pack and the girl Like oh my god, Connor Such a shake you're like then diesel Where to God who also isn't jacked in the grand scheme, but then Connor's 50 pounds smaller than Vin Diesel But abs are important Train them for hypertrophy they will marginally pop out more And because you're dieting for fat loss the fat around them will receive and you will have also abs and then You got abs and Spring break is the place where abs live that's where they they fall like that's where they Express their full potential so I would recommend training them in this case if you want maximum Fuck tensile and even wrote that down That's right the potential to have consensual Sexual relations with people of the Gender that interests you yes, it's 2023. I said that right okay Now the training plan Can be super basic but if you want something laid out for you shameless plug the custom training templates By them below their hundred bucks and they last for like Four months or some shit like that so you can use them way after spring break You just pick all the muscle groups you want a train and you can actually choose as priority muscle groups By some try-subs delts chest and abs. It's literally right there in the the ordering form and then it traps out a program for you That trains all of those exactly as hard as you need to make your best results. So shameless plug go get that shit now I'm not just gonna be By the fucker the toes you go buy shit and there's nothing else if you want to learn how to build your own high-perchary plan We have the High-perchary-free made simple YouTube video series that's 16 videos each one's like eight minutes long Going step by step as to how you can construct your own plan. So if you're in college You don't have a trust fund where you can get a hundred bucks from mom and dad or Grandma and grandpa whatever fucking east coast mansion built by Christopher Columbus you fucking ancestors live in If you're not like the Dartmouth type of mother fucker then just build your own program for free and The whole guide will take you like an hour and half to watch and you can fucking just make a program So enjoy But remember by shit because any Lamborghinis They are not free Which pains me to think about all right number four The cardio plan big news here cardio is persistently overrated as a fat loss modality Doing a ton of cardio has some effect on fat loss Before the energy and time invested that effect is not worth the trade-off in most cases So what you want to do is diet that diet is how you get lead Contest body builders or leaner than everyone else in this world If you don't do more cardio than like endurance runners and you think for all the cardio endurance runners Do it into pretty lean but turn out as lean as bodybuilder how In the answer is by the way Two things before you say bodybuilders are on drugs one endurance athletes it's a shit load of drugs top level And also drug free bodybuilders are leaner than endurance athletes so now that we've rounded that The reality is that the diet is the big difference maker and so when you guys are getting ready for spring break it and ready to get shape Just know that if you're the type of person To do like an hour or two of cardio a day and then not watch your diet so closely You're just gonna do a lot of work for kind of disappointing results But to be kidding think it'd be good But for the amount of time you spent doing that shit. It's not gonna be ideal and like you have homework and sorority parties to go to or whatever So you got other shit to do what I would recommend is this get a baseline decent amount of steps Your cell phone has a step tracker in it. I promise you can get one of cheap-ass step trackers It's like $11 It's from China. They know where I am at all times I like to notify the communist party where I am at all times in the United States So it's super cheap to track your steps just get a minimum of 10 or 12 thousand steps every single day and That hold up find which sites are gathering your info with personal data cleanup Scott, how do you say this isn't macophia macafia macafia macafia macafia? I pay for your fucking service You're the only people that spam me Thank you for preventing all other spammers stop popping up when I'm fucking at work Three times an hour shit Like they say shit to like oh like try look at look at who's trying to spam you Mom I'll the fuck this your job. No tell me about it. Just do it I love you guys. I'm kidding don't turn off the virus Protection on the back end and fuck me over in any case 10 to 12 Thousands types of day are just stay really active Let the diet do the rest of the work if you want to go and do some treadmill cardio or some elliptical that's totally cool I would say like six days a week Maximum 45 minutes at a time of like hard work it makes you sweat is the most I would ever do this whole two hours Do you have cardio nonsense is for the fucking birds and a thing is when spring break is getting closer When you go to your university gym you will notice that no less than one times 10 to the 15 million Surrody girls are in the cardio room chatting to try to get I don't know what look they want for spring break cocaine look and Boy do they get it because they don't really lift weights and the muscle sloths off their body and so does the fat you're Not going on spring break look like Kate Moss and if that reference dates me I'm old Google that shit. It's an interesting look in any case Supplements gotta say something about them first thing is you just don't have to take them They're just not a big deal If you're gonna take a fat burner or something like liposix or some shit like that no corporate affiliation here It works just fine stick with a recommended dose or even a little bit lower These things hit really hard Don't take the pills late at night and won't be able to sleep if you take pre-workouts just keep doing that You know in the extra pre-workout if you want creatine five grams of crazy amount hydrate You know every day is a good idea for the duration of of this whole exercise and do bring your creatine with you So you can take it in Mexico or in Thailand or where are the fucking going because It will keep your muscles fuller and it's a cool look And there's nowhere in the world where you get popped for powders that are just creatine So don't worry like oh, but I think I think it's cocaine It's not their first rodeo if it was that easy to fucking smuggle can an airplane Good god. Yeah, Scott new uh career idea Creatines smuggling Count me in in for a penny in for a pound Yes, yes in your person The old purse the universal purse as they call it everyone has one But the aperture is you know, I'm just gonna stop by behind Okay, we got plenty more shitty jokes to make in the rest of this video All right, we got your training we got your diet we got your cardio You're looking like you're getting in really good shape but hold on The goal of the trip isn't to look super awesome on the airplane going in there Girl walks by from the first class bathroom look so she's like oh my god What hotel are you staying like I don't look no I just go there and just go get wild any book Oh, she's like oh my god you're crazy. Ha, now that's cool But when you get to the place you We total shit You drink a ton of Fluids or call them and What ends up happening is you get as the French say and le bloated And then you got the puffy face look and the muscles are puffy the abs are puffy and It kind of sucks because like you're looking puffy two days in and your friends are like dude foam party tonight and you're like I guess But I look like shit and it sucks to look worse than you just did I mean confidence is a thing right and and ladies know it So if you go into the club like oh, do like come on, God or show us your abs Go to go to go to the field and go to whatever like you're for sure not getting late get the my god of here you want to look your best Problem How the fuck do we deal with this boy this bloating shit? It's a difficult thing however However If you want to avoid Doctors called dry dick disease and you want to stay nice and sharp you can do something It's wacky but guys I swear to God it works Two weeks before your trip not including your trip So if your trip's on March 15th or some shit March one you start the following process You double your salt and water intake Fuck if you don't know how much salt you're eating because who the fuck does outside of weird contest body builders Just eat a lot more salt put more salt in your foods and you don't even have to focus on doubling your water intake That'll happen automatically because your thirst will be like holy shit I need drink more fluids because I need so much salt But I would say double your salt intake or eat more salt and really make sure you're you're putting down the fluids like pretty well Don't over drink or some shit, but like don't go thirsty and have brown pea. That's all I'm trying to say For one week of this soon as you start doing it after a couple of days you will look way worse. Why? because You are have a normal Expression of what's called the diorotic response your body piece out Fluids normally and you shove the crap to no fluid and salt and so for a while your diorotic response doesn't catch up and you get bloated This is what would happen on your spring break vacation We're doing it early. Why we're gonna continue to apply this much higher salt and water All the way up until we actually get to spring break even before the flight You step on that flight before you have like you know two gatorid zeros and put some salt in there Person with the airports are correct. I forgot are you to we're kind of flight us this what are you getting ready for? And mile high club times 10 here's the thing After about a week your body is going to adjust and you're going to look normal and you're gonna say what the fuck am I doing this for? I look just normal. Why I do this keep going when you get to you know Panama Beach or whatever Mexico Scott where do people with friends go and spring break I never had friends? I mean it's got to be other places Okay, it's just can't cool. You're as you sure huh That's a little cold then for spring break I guess So wherever you're going you're gonna get there and You're just gonna eat and drink normally because like do that time for other shit then But because your body has been exposed to so much more salt and water than usual When you go in and eat some junk food and get a little dehydrated and also their stuff Your body's gonna be like man compared to what I have been doing This is actually like very low water and salt environment so automatically you're gonna get dried out And then you're actually gonna look your best Two or three days into your vacation Which is amazing because that's when the phone party is and that's when you get to fucking pull off the shirt and be like a lady Isn't that going on and then the Mexican bouncer like one hand picks you up and throws you the fuck out Decide on the wall sir. You can't take shirt off in the phone party. Do they even force that sort of thing? Scott you've been to a phone party Anything goes that's my line to my lawyer when I call him from a Mexican prison the day after you Will be low carbing it on your way in obviously High water high salt When your vacation begins you're almost certainly more carbs than you used to because foods gonna taste good And there's tons of it around and your water and salt are gonna come down Increasing carbs and dropping salt and water is like a contest body building peak You're actually gonna look fuller in your muscles and dry your underneath your skin. It's a fucking thing If you really give a shit about how you look like you really really give a shit Like if it's trying to get in shape fucking cares, but if you really give a shit Just at least remember to have a little bit more salt and fluids Maybe a lot more in the few weeks leading up week and a half to two weeks And you are gonna look really really good when it comes down to it and by the way The thumbnail hopefully it looks like I think it's gonna look has me a couple days before my recent Well, it wasn't on spring break it was a December trip with my wife and our older friends where we just go to bed early Have cocktail Less fun, but nonetheless still illustrates the point it was cancun You'll see that I look pretty fucking ultra shredded in that second picture and In that first picture I look not so ultra shredded is because that first picture was taken when I was doing the water and salt Intensional bloating and then when I got to the all-inclusive dude your boy was putting down us down 5500 calories of food Met like four or five meals a day snacks all the other crazy shit But I was fucking dry because I was so used to pounding in the fluids in the salt before it fucking works So give it a try all right now What about dieting and training during vacation? We got a couple rules three to be exact just follow these some semblance barely and you'll do better than not rule number one Try Try not to eat like a total piece of shit 100% of the time that you're there Light high protein breakfast when you wake up at 2 p.m. or some shit like that A reasonable dinner that's not entirely made of junk food and If you keep your dinner lighter and I shouldn't be saying this but here it goes if you keep your dinner on the lighter end You get drunk with last alcohol so mission accomplished I guess but a lot of times it's all inclusive so they all call Inclusive gives a shit But just don't run out there if you're gonna have a light dinner remember that your tolerance is gonna be lower now I sound like you're fucking bad Be careful out there Connor And cut holes and condoms I'm Woodstock was a terrible time in any case Just know that if you eat a lighter dinner you'll have the drink less could be a good thing could be bad thing It's up to you to make it a good thing but at least it's more convenient because you don't have to be like I'm on my 6th beer I don't feel shit During the day night try to hydrate well for two reasons Reason number one ooh three reasons Number one it's fucking hot and humid a shit and can cool you will fucking die out there if you don't hydrate Number two let's be honest your drunk a shit or you bought fucking molly from some weird hotel worker Now you're on meth andphetamine because it's not actual molly and that does not help the matters Because when you're drunk around drugs you have no fun clue it's going on and a bunch of them have a diuretic response So make sure you stay hydrated and lastly you're gonna want little Willie and start your friend downstairs to work really well That there is and you know he kind of needs hydration because he's kind of He does his best work when you're fully hydrated and if you can't put those two things together Could lock and can cool good god Second rule This is a bit of a departure from the first rule Do not or rather you don't have to eat like a contest body builder the whole time When you're at the fucking club You know it's bottoms up that's why you're there So don't try to be like oh I got to order the diet drinks and I sure But unless you're doing some purposeful gaining phase you just can't gain enough body fat in a week of Actual partying because remember the party is the number one thing To really make a huge impact or almost any visual impact on your physique so just don't worry about Because a lot of people are like who are a defintence or like oh man a Only diet mixers and only four drinks like just shut the fuck up and have fun Right, I'm here to tell you I'm obsessed with my body. I'm a little fucking career out of it It just doesn't make a fucking difference not for a week yeah for four weeks you don't fucking for sure make a difference but for a week of parting just enjoy yourself After the club gets you something nasty enjoy that shit and Good news it'll help soak up the alcohol so you don't die in Mexico alone Your parents have to go through customs to get your body back Ugh rough Third rule If you do choose to train First of all do not schedule early morning training that is insane You won't be awake early in the morning or you will be awake and fornicating with lots of other fun spring breakers Hopefully in an environment you all find pleasant to not overly dirty Midday training is where it's at another benefit to midday training is typically in these Locals the equatorial regions so to speak where you go for spring break is so fucking hot midday Is it like a path to heat strokes just go to the gym which is hopefully our condition If it's not don't go to the gym and get your workout then Amtrainings not likely After training you can get a good low pump get you a shower Put on your little fuck boy outfit go get dinner drinks club Face down in the street at 330 Wake up in a Mexican jail and it's just Tuesday, baby, and I'm here till Friday. Let's get at it Lastly you can totally just deal with the whole trip or not train at all You might want to train a little bit get them demons out a tad get pumped with your friends It was always the thing where they make some friends there and it's like six girls and they're like, oh my god You're early buff can you teach us how to do like jump stuff? We're gonna go left through of course ladies and you just spend The rest of the hour showing them doctor mic youtube videos which you should do because you're boy knows what he's fucking talking about JK Get in there and get some training going but I will say this Feel free to deal with just two or three upper body training sessions that whole week We'll keep you looking Exactly as good as when you got there you do not have to train two a days or seven times a week to look Your best to maximize your club performance and as a matter of fact if you want to maximize your club Performance don't train a ton train a little bit so you got that fucking nasty man energy for the foam party That's right the foam party and Christianity mutually exclusive Satanic things happen at the foam party and I hope you enjoy them all Pray Satan all right Quickly if you're on the business end of things if you're a saucy guy if you use an Special sports supplement so to speak You may have questions about how to manage that and I have a few answers for you The the power points says if you're a drug addict which is probably true for you and you really need to think about shit Growth hormone pull it out yes, it is a very powerful fat burner, but it also results in bloating and if you pull out growth hormone about Ah, you know a week to half a week before you go you're just gonna look way more shredded hands down Also growth hormone helps you sleep if you pull out growth you'll be less Apped to sleep on the trip which is good because you'll be partying your face off you won't be asleep anyway Another thing Yes, the drugs you were taking help you get your in shape Especially for shooting long-esters if you don't know what that means is just skip the next three minutes You should not having meaningful change and how much serum concentration of anabolic you have in your bloodstream in Any relevant capacity throughout this week of party Do not take drugs with you you can go a week without injecting I promise and If they're long-esters mr. whiskey deck won't have to happen everything is all gravy and the good thing is A lot of body builders pull out pretty much all of their gear almost all of it before contests anyway like a week or two out Because less engines actually make you look drier as well Will you have your best gym performance well if you shot a week ago? Yes, probably still Will you look your absolute fullest nobody who gives a shit you're gonna look sharper and drier So it's better to pull out all of your gear stop shooting it when you fucking get on the plane Don't bring fucking drugs with you to other countries look like you bring drugs into Finland They're gonna make this is very bad thing for you to do and who worried about the health so please just leave some here and go to Finland and enjoy Sorry finish people I fucked up your accent You know if you got a Thailand and you got steroids on you You may not be coming back Scott was that one video With the the movie with the people they go and broke down palace Bro watch that shit don't you fucking bring drugs anywhere else in this fucking world Mexico Thailand that's for you Aussie motherfuckers you Aussie guns always trying to bring gear everywhere cut it out You don't need it straight up and this is the honest advice I'm not trying to be your fucking parent here Who oh Yes, does she have the latex on note then the answer is she is no longer my girl Okay back in stale you were valid as a human in always but to me as a sex object only when you're in your Was that a movie called underworld outfit? woo I love vampires or werewolves or whatever you are Kate Mcnathkins Dale hello In any case She shows up without the outfit I'm like who are you? All right Lastly After the vacation assuming you survived of course most of the funnest spring breaks and in death Which is a good way to live until you're 22? I would take a week or two after the trip to just like eat clean like fruits veggies whole grains meets just to I'm saying a lot of toxins into your body time to let them float out as you put only good stuff in for a little bit ease back into training You don't want to just hit it hard right after because you just deloted Basically so you got to ease back in no crazy stuff three reps and reserve lower volumes etc and then keep training some next time You don't have to rush back into shape and you can be jacked and lean well in advance of spring break Go there and just mop it all up, baby and if I have to tell you what the it is you have a lot of growing up to do which is gonna happen on spring break for you You're in a few weeks so Lastly in that two week time span afterwards Hopefully had fun hopefully you were safe Go get STD test Because I'm pretty sure the foam party foam particles are actually made of the HIV virus This is just more fun that way and Take care of yourself folks have a good time if you have any questions comments concerns about specifics Shoot them in to the comments below and I will try to get to them and answer them and Have fun and be safe don't do anything stupid unless it has a high payoff and involves titties. I'll see you guys later You

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. I'm coming at you super hard. I'm not your hard, didn't you roll off the tongue like I planned? With a video about five rules for fat loss cardio. Whoa boy, here we go. Rule number one is to find your best SFR modalities. What does that mean? Science man, shut up and use American words. You want ways of doing cardio methods that burn plenty of calories, but don't beat you up a ton and make you super tired, make your muscles sore and fatigued and mess up your joints. Which means the elliptical or longer distance swim or an incline walk or even just like a fast-paced walk through the neighborhood or through a park may be better more sustainable than something like a lot of step mill or a lot of plyometrics and aerobics classes where you're jumping around. For general fitness and health, that stuff is amazing. But fat loss cardio means you do it regularly for G8 to 12 weeks on end. If you do enough step milling, your legs get so fatigued that your leg workouts start to decline in quality, that you might lose leg muscle size or not gain as much. If you're jumping around, hop, skipping a lot of aerobics could beat up your joints and you need to save your joints for the lifting because that's where they really come in. So try to get a cardio modality for you that burns plenty of calories, but it doesn't beat the living crab out of you that it's got to be sustainable. Now, number two rule is to take all of those cardio modalities, the ways of doing cardio is lip-to-gulling, cline walks, women, et cetera, and do the ones most often that you enjoy the most. I know what sounds kind of lame and weird. I just want to lose fat. Forget enjoyment. Well, hold on a second. If you enjoy cardio, it's less stress overall to your day and stress is a huge fatigue booster and motivation killer. If you have cardio that you absolutely hate, it's just like planning to fail. After seven weeks of fat loss, you're like, like, quit and everyone at works like, oh no, why? Like, I just done enough cardio to where I don't want to do cardio ever again. I've retired from cardio. But if you have a cardio modality, let's say plan basketball with your friends or, you know, having friends at all, in my case, then if you like that or let's say you put on a sweet podcast and go to the gym and just in kind walk, if you like the cardio or at least hate it, the least, your more likely to receive less stress for you, your more likely to be adherent to and actually do it, and then it's all good things all the way down. Of course, you want to keep your SFR high still. So if you really love the stair mill, but it really messes up your legs and screws up your leg workouts, there's some hidden yang there, which goes to point number three. In general, to the extent that you can slash like, use as many diverse modalities of cardio, even within a single week, not as you can, but as preferred to you. A lot of people think cardio is only going to the gym, rationing up the treadmill and incline walking for 45 minutes, looking at the wall in front of them and just suffering. What you could be doing is doing a little bit of swimming, getting on the bike, doing a bit of jogging, unless you're a contest body builder, it's okay to do some jogging for cardio. You're not going to lose your leg muscle, completely off your body in most cases. You've, you've got a ton of different options. You can join a wreck league for basketball or something, and all of a sudden tons of different types of cardio means that they're never really boring, they're always fun. Also, you can't really wear out a single part of your body if your cardio always changes. You don't wear and tear that stuff. You do only ever the elliptical at some point your shoulder starts hurting. The elliptical hurts it like either stop doing cardio or you hurt your shoulder more. But if you have a swim program in there, maybe some bicycle work, then you can keep doing cardio and lay off the shoulder for a bit and then voila, you're well off and while you're waiting before you smart Alex, get the comments to say your swim uses the shoulders. I'm talking about the shit where you get the floaty thing. Scott, video guy, you know what I'm talking about? They're the little floaty thing they use in swim. We just paddle with your legs, but the paddle board. It's exactly named what it is. Am I the stupidest person in the world? At least bottom five. Next up, rule number four. You have to understand limits of cardio. In most cases, much more than 45 minutes to an hour of cardio, six, ish days a week. Is the most a living human being can do without starting to really cause a lot of muscle loss and or just starting to cause a lot of fatigue from the sheer board I'm going to have an adryped to the gym and all those other crazy stuff. Cardio, in a proper fat loss plan, just gets you burning a little bit more calories than you out an average would during maintenance. And then the diet reduction and food creates most of that deficit. What you don't want to do is eat the same amount of food as normal and really crank that cardio like crazy. The fatigue is just overwhelming. It's not sustainable. So make sure you don't do too much cardio 45 minutes in an hour days. Mostly the top end on average for people. There's definitely exceptions to that. But then the deficit should come from you cranking your fats and carbs down a little bit. In most cases, that's the best approach for long fat loss. Lastly, if you do too much cardio, what you end up happening is your body can make some adjustments. Where reduces your non-exercise expenditure and not exercise activity through what genesis is the technical term. It means like your body is like, holy crap, I'm burning way too many calories. I'm not eating enough. Let's slow everything down. So like if you're sitting in a chair and there are modes over there, you normally just get up and get it yourself. But when if your kid runs over, like, hey, Billy Bob, that's your kid's name. I mean, that remote, son. Why aren't you getting it? There was no your large arm broken. You're totally fine. It's because your body's kind of secretly whispering in your ear like, hey, still you're starving to death and way moving too much. What ends up happening is during the average day, you're expenditure in total because tons of calories are burned. Believe you're not with just normal daily stuff. If you start doing less normal daily stuff, you can be doing lots of cardio and 90% of that cardio just replaces the daily stuff you're not doing anymore. That's terrible. So rule number five is consider getting yourself a step tracker. This one was made by the people's communist Chinese public of China or something and it tracks my identity and location and it's linked to my TikTok just kidding. It's like 20 bucks. You can have an iPhone watch where I'm just called Apple Watch. A ton of step trackers available, even the super cheap ones. This is like the cheap one, cheapest one they have and it works great. I just peg my steps and you can too anything between 10,000 and 12,000 steps a day is a good place to start on a cardio plan. Just never let it go below that. You can go to the gym and do cardio or chords that or you can just walk on the block, walk your dogs, walk over to your neighbor's house, spy on them like you always do. And it records everything as far as steps. So if you're every day, getting at least 10,000 steps that like mild burning of fat is always happening. And if you engineer your caloric deficit, just underneath that, you just consistently burn fat. This means also that you get tons of stuff done. So for example, if you have a cardio session later and you have to go grocery shopping for your family, damn, I have a lot of shit to do this sucks. But if you have a step tracker, you just go grocery shopping and 3000 steps later. Like, oh, the crap, I almost know with my cardio, take a couple of walks around the block and you're done. What a step tracker does is it kind of records all of your meaningful physical activity throughout the day, sums it up. So that problem of your physical activity dropping to make up for cardio just can't happen anymore. So long you hit your minimum, 10 to 12k, then you're good to go some people, eight k's enough. Other people like to do 14k plus 10 to 12 of a somewhere you can start and go from there. Folks, thank you so much for tuning in. Like, subscribe, do all that good stuff. And, you know, smile extra at someone, especially when they don't expect it. And when you get out, you know, for your Uber ride later today, you don't pay the Uber driver. The app does that, right? So like here, here you go, here's destination. You just go, hey, hey, can they try and you go? Just like that. See you guys next time.

You guys wanted to know and you asked us what is the best possible exercise to use to develop your abs according to science. Now truthfully, there is a candidacy list of the best, but there is one specifically which we're going to show you today which she was if there had to be the perfect one, this would be it. And it's called Modify the Candlestick Room. The Modify Candlestick is a very interesting exercise. Only requires you to be able to grab something behind you that's solid on what move or better yet, grab the back of a workout bench. That's all you need for this exercise. Here's how it works. The Modify Candlestick has you pulling your knees and your feet up, and then thrusting your hips off of the bench vertically into the air. That part can be done athletically and rapidly because what we want is the descent. The eccentric controlled lowering phase when you lower your legs back down, hips first, leg second, once you do that. That puts an unbelievable amount of stress onto your abs and a lengthened situation where they're being pulled apart as they go down. When that occurs, tons of muscle growth is potentiated. This is an incredibly hard exercise. So, because it's hard, there are a couple of ways for you to cue yourself in to make sure that it's reasonably possible for you to even do this exercise. And then slowly over time, you're going to be able to make it harder and hear us out. The beginner version of this exercise has you taking your knees and tucking them up as high as you can first. That shortens the lever arm of your legs and allows you to lift your hips much easier, pointing your toes into the sky. As you come down, you're going to retract your feet back down towards you as the hips lower, and then you're going to stretch your legs out separately. That's the easiest way to do it, and it's still tough. The second way to do it, which is harder, if you can do 10 solid repetitions or more in the easy way, you can move to the next way. The next way is when you start moving, you actually take your legs completely straightened and you bring them up without bending to be at all. Then you thrust your hips up, come back down, and then completely straightened lowering your leg that extends the lever arm and challenges your abs much more. The third way is almost impossible for most people to do. Pretty much only elite gymnasts and a few other folks can get away with it. If you can do 15, 20, or 25, or more of the second kind of technique, you might need to do a few of the third. That's the actual Campbell step. The reason it's called the Campbell Stick is it's completely solid and straight. That's when you have your feet totally extended, your hips completely straight. You pull back on the bench using only your upper abs. You are going to crunch your entire body like a zombie mortified, totally flat thing all the way up in a semi-circular arc. And then when you get to the top pointing your toes, you're going to come all the way back down fully extended the whole time. I sure shit can't do these. I don't even think Mr. Nixha or CEO who's going to demo this for you is able to do these. We are going to really focus on cueing the first variant. I'm going to try the second variant if you want to do the third hardest variant. That's up to you. Perfect. Hold at the top for just a split second longer. Excellent. That's it. Rust. Good. Oh, that was perfect. Excellent. Two more. Good keep those legs straight on the inside. Yes. Oh, that was a perfect one. Slow. Slow. Beautiful. That's it. Modified candle stick. You got the easy version. We got the medium version. We have the impossible hard version. Start out on the easy version. The real critical thing is to do a nice full range of motion to really use your hips to push yourself up and that second half of the movement. And then on the decent on the eccentric phase when you're lowering your hips back down when you're lowering your legs back down go slow. That slowness is powered by your abdominal muscles. They're the only thing they're able to make that go slow. They're resisting gravity. They're getting a ton of tension. My last tip is if you start using this exercise just train abs twice a week and start with one set on Monday. And then one set on Thursday you will get crazy sore. If you don't increase to two sets next week, you want to never go higher than what it takes to recover every single time. So if your abs get a little bit sore and then by halfway through the week they get good again, you're doing a perfect number of sets. If your abs are never getting sore, do a few more sets. If your abs are getting crushed, you're not recovering on time lower the sets. Science is a real awesome thing sets a 500 crunches, planks, this in that wall ball that's all nonsense. It doesn't work very well at all. Exercises like these resistance, loadable exercises, tough exercises, ones which you go slow and control the center of your huge range of motion. They're the ones that grow muscle the most. And because this exercise loads you the most when you're at the very bottom of the movement, it actually loads your abs while they're being stretched, which is a bonus round extra weighted grow muscle. Do you have abs that are too big and is there a problem for you? Probably not. Get on this and do it. We'll see you next time with better abs. Thank you.

If you train really, really hard, it's kind of always time-each-arched. But shit if I'm not selling hard training with that line, uses no one on train-arch. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NSOXPIRDization. Welcome back to another five rules video. This time the five rules of carbs, ye shall not snack. I mean, fuck that rule. Snack away. All right, five rules of carbs. More like helpful hints to understand where carbs are, then rules. But there's the five rules video series. It's got the video guy said Mike, we need five rules for everything. And I was like, I don't think that... We're working like that. He's like, shot up and dough it. I was like, okay, okay. And I just started typing really fast. So here's where it came out. In any case. I'm in the last one. Oh, he looks angry. But I can't say I hate that look. Well, angry man, I should just... I should just give lecture. Here we go. Number one, good to understand that carbs help with energy for fitness pursuits and for work. Carbs are the best fuel for thinking. Barnon, yes, sometimes for some people, low carb diets, cause a sense of mental clarity and mild euphoria. But for most people to get that from eating carbs in a well balanced diet. And if you're going to take a test of mental ability, you're going to be really sharp for an interview. I highly recommend you eat carbs beforehand. The brain's number one preferred source of fuel is drum roll glucose, which I don't know if you've heard is a carb. Recovery is hugely potentiate by carbs. Sleep is helped a ton by carbs. And muscle growth is helped a ton by carbs. If you have a compelling reason to eat low carb or 90 carbs at all, by all means, not must I do your thing. But if you don't, it is a good idea to eat carbs. You don't have to eat a ton of them, but some of them are really good. So if you say look, I mostly like to eat proteins and fats. What are the advantages to eating carbs again? You just heard them. Rule number two, pair your carbs to your calorie levels and to your activity levels. So for example, if you're eating much more protein than fat, your carbs need to come down. Because your total calories are the most important part about your diet. And if your activity levels are coming up and you want to have lots of energy and be able to recover, eating more carbs is a good idea. So for example, if you are on like a walking tour of the monuments of Rome or something, he will carcass us probably pretty sharp. If you are doing a big gym day with two workouts or something, if you have a big event day for cross for something, carbs can help you. If you're lower in activity, mostly sitting around, checking emails on the iPad, watching a Netflix video or two on a lazy Sunday, you can have carbs. Again, if you reduce your fats, for example, keeping a protein stable, but you don't need a ton of carbs necessarily. Unless you train really frequently, maybe six days a week and really hard, Sunday, then if you don't train is a really good time to really get a lot of carbs into your muscles, into your glycogen stores so you can recover better and perform better later. So if you train really, really hard, it's kind of always time to eat carbs. Which shit if I'm not selling hard training with that line, uses no one to train hard. Number three, rule for most meals that you eat and by you, I mean, person who is interested in fitness and health, I highly recommend that the majority of your carbs come from a combination of veggies, fruits and whole grains. They are the most nutrient dense, they are the healthiest, they keep your energy levels the most stable, they keep you regular in the poop place, leave it's called a colon or, you know, or geez, all the jokes I have cut up are not for the YouTube audience. Can you imagine that? Just going to shut up. In any case, they also have another benefit. These kinds of carbs are the most filling, they keep you satiated and not hungry for the longest time and that's really good, especially if you're on a fat loss diet or just trying not to be a total pig and gain weight for no reason. Can you have other kinds of carbs or more processed carbs? Yes, there's a matter of fact, that's my next rule. Remember for, if you're eating a base of veggies, fruits and whole grains, but you're losing weight when you don't want to be or you're trying to gain weight, but you just can't stuff in the food down your gullet because you're so full all in time, take your average carb intake and increase the degree to which it is processed, refined, more sugary. I know it's crazy, it's most to kill you, it doesn't. If you're hard training athlete in a relatively lean, you're totally good to go eating that especially if you want to gain weight in purpose. So for example, if you're typically eating brown rice, switch to light rice. It's your typically eating like actual grains of rice, normal rice prepared, switch to cream of rice. It'll go down faster and more processed versions of carbohydrates just digest quicker, easier faster. Doesn't make them any healthier, but not really any less healthy on average. But just means you can get in more food, also more processed carbs, tend to get into the blood stream and back into your cells or not back in. They didn't come from your cells, getting from the gut to the bloodstream to your cells more quickly so that you can actually become hungry faster instead of wanting to eat every three hours, you might want to eat every two, which if you're trying to cram in the food to gain weight, oh my god, that's a god send. Now, here's the other thing. If you're on a fat loss diet, you're trying to restrict the amount of calorie eating, but you don't want to nod your own hand off with hunger. I recommend having most of your carbohydrates come for veggies and maybe fruits and a few whole grains. So we have processed and the SO veggies, fruits, whole grains, processed carbs. That's how it looks on a fat loss diet. Out of maintenance, plan on my look like this. And when you really need to gain it, it's kind of weight. It looks like that. Not so many veggies. Trust me, you'll still be regular if you do enough food. Seast it amount of fruits, but not a ton. Plenty of whole grains and a crap load of processed carbs. Wala, weight gain is yours. There is no avoiding hard training if you want to grow. But if you want to grow the most, your training needs to be hard and smart. RP Hiperchrophy app will make sure you're progressing on track, monitoring and adjusting your work out at all times. So for all that work you're doing, you can be sure you're getting the best results. Lastly, could not have this be omitted rule number five is sugar is totally fine. So long as most of your carbs come from high fiber sources like fruits and veggies, whole grains, sugar is not inherently bad for your health somehow. It is a matter of fact, in your bloodstream it's all sugar. The only real carbohydrate molecule that's supposed to be in your blood is glucose. If you have other ones in there that could not be a great thing. Yes, fructose gets in the liver and stuff like that and that's totally fine as well. But generally everything breaks down into sugar and your body uses simple sugars and most of its processes, the sugar can't be that bad for you and all the research says it's not. What is bad for you is eating so much sugar that's so tasty that's combined with fat, candies and cookies and ice cream. That's not low fat food group that I just listed there. That's how you get super fat, super unhealthy and super out of shape. Sugar by itself is not a problem. So if you mostly well and you want to have a bit of sugar here and there, especially if you're really active, it's awesome. It's totally okay and you won't die unless you have, you know, like some kind of sugary cereal when you walk out into the street and you know, just trying to clean the streets and you're not paying attention in that street sweeper car just knocks right into you. The bad news is it's going to kill you. That's a heavy vehicle. The good news is it as you get instantly killed with a concussion force and swooped under the car. Well, it might actually clean up your dead body on the way. It's like it never happened. Is that the perfect crime? My mafia instincts or it just drags your ass and the spreader thingies that clean just make this eight foot wide, two mile long trail of blood. Hopefully it doesn't happen on a school day before this kids get out to go to the bus. Some of those kids will never have any other dreams again. I'll shut up now. I'll see you guys next time. But wait before you go, like subscribe comment. If you like more of this kind of insanity, but with much more knowledge, a member area has way more nerdy videos. And if you want even more nerd stuff, team full rom forum, which is a few extra thousand dollars a second, I'm kidding, that's expensive. You can have me answer your questions live every week and we do all kinds of helping each other out with technique and also other stuff. So give it a look. It's all in the description below and I'll see you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Resson's Puritization. Welcome back to the targeting of the muscle series. Today we're doing the technically most important exercise anyone could ever do, the machine chest press. That's right. Gramm I did it. Mon did it. Great Gramm I hated it. Great Gramm I invented it and died by it. In it actually. A lot is very difficult to die in one of these. Short of a cardiac event. What the hell am I saying? We have tips for how to take any machine chest press that's reasonably built and this one sure is that list. Thanks not a list and get the most out of it if you have trouble feeling your pecks. Let's get into the tips. Alright tip number one and this is actually probably the first thing you would do is to make sure that the seat height is appropriate for you. So check this out all demo quick. Right now it's on elevated seat height for me and I actually surprisingly even though I'm only 4 foot 9 I have actually quite a large sorry long torso. I guess it's large too. I have a pretty long torso. So if I get into the machine like this for me you guys notice I'm like pushing down which is like all well and good but I don't feel like in generator to turn a power this way and I don't feel like my pecks are working in town as much as they could be. So for me I prefer a look at how easy not to list makes this a lower seat height. So now that the seat is lower. Oh man I'm so I can really be the cell in here and do some really good work. So for you there's no correct answer as to what seat height is best. Play with a few of them and see which one you like most which one you can feel your pecks working best. Towns of tension. Towns of pump. Towns of burn. So on and so forth. Alright next tip and this is unfortunately not possible with all machines and the machines which is not possible you should throw away immediately or complain to your gem owner is adjusting the range of motion of the handles. A lot of hypertrophy based on research and theory and a lot of practical experience almost everyone who's reasonably intelligent seems to occur deep and a stretch with heavy loads and if you're in a machine and you haven't played with the adjustment you could be in a situation where you're you're pressing like this. Now notice the stack is clanking and I'm not even at normal bench press depth yet. Machines can offer you greater than bench press depth which is one of their options. So if you're in a situation where you can't feel your pecks well I can't feel my pecks either because I'm barely getting a stretch now. If I make the adjustment here and I lower the situation I could have done a slightly better job with one of those pressing things but I get into the super deep now watch this. Oh my god this is as deep as I go I'm not warmed up. All the way up super deep stretch it makes all the difference in the world and a lot of times if you're using a machine you've been using it for a while and like I don't like this machine you sort of haven't put your finger on exactly why. You might not have realized that there is a selectorized difference in how deep the machine goes and if you adjust the selector to go nice and deep you're going to be like oh my god I wrote this machine off for no reasons it's actually incredible actually lucky to give it some thought. Next notice we haven't even talked about actually doing the repetitions yet and just set up is grip width and again here there are not really a super correct answer it's all to preferences all to feel it's all to individual anti-pometry. So we have an option of taking a very wide grip and a lot of times that works well for people's pecs especially if you retract your shoulder blades and push your chest out like you're supposed to be on every chest movement this can feel amazing it can really let you feel the chest and your triceps don't have to be a super big limiting factor now for some people the shoulder feel so weird and it's such a big stretch for the pecs that they can't generate a lot of force and ends up being not the correct answer in addition to that if you have the chest super wide sometimes it actually limits the range of motion because your elbows can't go back that far so for some folks a closer grip can actually thrive the living fucker their pecs because it allows them a huge range of motion of the exercise and the elbows to travel real far back that humor's angle is super deep and then it allows you a really good situation and of course there's somewhere in the middle between the two and that's often where you should start and experiment from there again there are no correct answers here anyone who tells you all this grip better because this pub man's study on can 12 undergraduates who never lifted before rather EMG that doesn't tell us anything said that my grip better blah blah that's all good and well and you could start it whatever the study say but absolutely adjust to to your own preference two things we're looking for one where do we feel the muscle to bast and deep a stretch in the most pump and burn and two where are our shoulder joints and elbows joints more comfortable sometimes even wrists because if you go out super wide wrist feel weird comfy joints hit for the muscle and we're fucking cold kind of a combo tip slow eccentric and a pause at the bottom so if you haven't trouble feeling your pecs this is absolutely a fine cadence for people who don't have trouble feeling the pecs but if you have trouble feeling a pecs what you could do is take a real slow eccentric three or four seconds really try to feel your chest opening up and then at the bottom pause for like two seconds one and two and up slow eccentric feel those pecs spreading chest up at the bottom pause and even hurts barely any weight for me is not a very heavenly sheenus out that I'm strong and I can already feel my pecs with this with with a tip slow eccentric big pause and then up yes you will get fewer reps yes you will be able to lift less weight but you will potentially be able to stimulate your pecs that much more at a smaller expense to your joints if you have trouble feeling your pecs I 100% advise that you give this a shot last tip and this one works especially well granted you're doing everything else correctly so when you set up at the bench make sure you can get a really deep stretch make sure shoulders are back chest is up everything's flat everything's tight in solid where do your elbows go fundamentally there are two extremes one is your elbows stay in both on the eccentric and the concentric option two is your flier elbows out okay there's a third option the third way of awkward historical reference is elbows at roughly 45 degrees I would start at 45 but I would play around with close and I would play around with wide as far as double position or sorry tight in and outstretched to see which one you feel works best and there's kind of a common tutorial part here where if you have a wider grip a narrow elbow angle sometimes feels really fucking weird but a big open angle feels great if you have a narrow grip sometimes the close angle feels great if you have a medium grip it really is whatever feels best so again anyone tries to tell you there's a correct way to push your elbows could be statistically correct 60 40 you know 60% of people that try the bench of 45 degree elbow angle whatever could be optimal remember you're not a statistic don't don't end up being statistic I'm like a 90's anti drug commercial and I'm not the person to tell you that so you are an individual and that means that you have to figure out a way that works best for you so if tons of people are like yeah 45 degrees is the best and you feel amazing if you pull your elbows in who the fuck is going to tell you that's the wrong way if you're shoulders your elbows your wrist feel great and whatever elbow angle you play with feels best for hitting your packs you get a bigger pump you get a bigger sensation of the muscle having a ton of tension throughput you get sore etc then that's the right answer folks it comes down to this any machine can be used better or worse and the machine design is of course important but there are lots of great machines out there that you can use very poorly but with the tips I'm giving you especially here on the chest machine and there's tons more videos like this to come in other machines you can alter the machine use the machine position your body in such a way that gives you a much better stimulus for the target muscle than otherwise if you have no problem targeting your packs you could just I don't even know why you're watching this video feel free to report us or some shit like that don't do that please but if you are having trouble targeting your packs try some of these tips be patient with them try them for a few weeks really feel out your body you may come to have several ways of using a chest machine that's working really great for you you might only have one but if we found one way that works best for you well shit you kind of OS pack size you shop to the club and girls are like hey what's up are you up to your leg you should just like I'm not in pack mars code and then I was gonna do sexual things with my face but that's not YouTube friendly see you guys later comment like subscribe and if you have exercises or machines you want us to talk about optimizing for the target muscle please let us know in the comments and also let us know what your favorite flavor of ice cream is if it's moose tracks don't comment because you're a fucking idiot I'm totally kidding see you guys next time

As far as I can tell, there is no compelling reason for most hypertrophy oriented lifters to incorporate strength training. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pyrridsation, and today's video is going to make an interesting claim that will maybe upset you, but don't worry we'll be friends after. It is going to be the claim that I will be making, that getting stronger won't help you get bigger. Uh-oh. Q comments. Here we go. First reaction when I wrote this PowerPoint is that I had was how could it not how could getting stronger not make you bigger, not help you make bigger, whatever ridiculous idea. And the idea that getting stronger directly makes you bigger is true. Like if you train for strength, it's also going to help you with hypertrophy. But what we're talking about today is a more nuanced idea. It is the idea that if you train for hypertrophy for an extended period of time months or years, going and doing a strength specific training phase for several months or longer, and then coming back to hypertrophy after can grow more muscle than just staying in hypertrophy training all the time. The idea that means is getting stronger potentials improves the future result of actual hypertrophy training. Potentia is muscle growth later. It's like brushing your teeth before you go to the club doesn't actually get you laid. Unless you really creatively use the toothbrush and then maybe you don't even have to go to the club. But if you're brushing your teeth, that potentials you getting late at the club later doesn't itself actually physically cause you to be laid. It is not the laying. Again, unless you're creatively using the toothbrush. So no judgment and as a matter of fact, kudos. The idea that getting stronger potentials size game is very old at face value, very persuasive, and it's kind of often assumed it's like, well, duh. How have we have to examine point by point? What strength training sets of three to six repetitions is general strength training is defined in the sports science literature? What is it actually doing for you? And then we're going to open that up, claim by claim and see how does that transfer into making you more jacked later? I can think of a few things that strength training does for you. First, it helps you coordinate the recruitment of your high-end motor units so that you can produce a ton of force in a sequenced way to actually complete a lift versus stalling out. It also teaches you what technique is good to use to coordinate as much muscle as possible to actually get the lift. It's like trying to do the lifting, we're using mostly your glutes versus dead lifting and using glutes, lower back, add-onters, quads, hamstrings, everything. Strength training teaches you how to coordinate all those muscles to work together. Strength training teaches you how to preserve your technique even under heavy stress. If you get a good technique under three rep max, you sure a ship can have good technique under a 10 rep max, a problem. It directly strength training directly stimulates muscle growth, fly high tension, done, easy. So it doesn't just potentially, potentially, it actually grows muscle for sure, but that's not controversial. That we are not arguing. It does allow you to use heavier external loads later in training. You take a power lifter versus a bodybuilder, a power lifter can for the size of their muscles. Use way heavier hacks, quite a leg press weights. And ostensibly you would think that would help hypertrophy, because using heavier weights, any stimulants muscle more and grows muscle, we'll figure that out. And lastly, it provides much needed volume and exercise variation. If you just crank high intensity high volume, hypertrophy training all the time, then at some point just having any kind of break is great, and strength training lower volume sets of three to six versus higher volume sets of five to 30 reps, man, that break by itself could do some potential training. Okay, let's take this clean by claim. So first, strength training helps you coordinate the recruitment of the highest and motor units to produce a lot of force in a sequenced way to get the lift. Yes, this is true, but near failure high-perchrophy training sets of five, ten, fifteen, twenty, etc. also does this. And it's not going to, the hypertrophy training won't make you produce more force, but it'll help you get extra reps. Either way, your performance is higher, and your ability to get extra reps, push that muscle further to its actual failure point is trained just as well with hypertrophy training, as it is with strength training. And as a matter of fact, I would actually submit that it probably trains it more specifically with hypertrophy training. If your goal is to try to go from doing sets of 13 in the leg press to sets of 16 by just leaking more fucking juice out of that muscle, training in that 13 to 16 rep range is the best way to do it. Yes, of course, people who train for sets of three to six will be able to take a lot of juice out of a muscle as well, but their ability to do so may be limited. They may be not used to the kind of lack to gas a pain, and it's psychologically they won't hold in. Their cardio may be more limited. So the transfer of training effect for make you able to squeeze more out of training is actually better, or at least tied with the very actual higher reps that you're doing. Think of it something like, you know, if you're a boxer, you punch a wall, you hit the wall really hard, and if you can hit that, you could hit a human face, true. But what if you have sparring partners, isn't the most specific thing to hitting a human face, hitting a human face, the way to get better, at least directly at hitting a human face is going to the club and starting fights, I'm hitting them do that. Grappling is better. Scott, Scott, Scott, have you got to video that? Are you serious? This is so rude. Are you okay? Do you guys call it fun? COVID it turns out if you want to learn how to eat more out of the muscle, doing a hypertrophy training itself, at least does that as well as strength training. So on that, no advantage to strength training. Moving on point number two, strength training teaches you what technique to use to get as much muscle mass as many different muscles into a lift as possible from the many muscles into one group together in unison, like a deadlift that uses everything at Dr. Squad's glutes, blah, blah, blah, blah. Now, that is actually learning a technique that is directly enthethetical to what we want to do in hypertrophy training, which is usually pick one target muscle group and develop a technique that really tries not to isolate it as much as to focus on it to make sure it's the limiting factor. When you're doing hacksquots, you want to make sure that your quads with the limiting factor. And if you have learned to hacksquots and strength training in such a way that uses a lot of your glutes and a lot of your lower back in tons of adductors, that doesn't really help you push the quads further. As a matter of fact, you're training a skill that is a little bit of a detour away from what you should be training. So to me, no, no dice there for strength training, no advantage, and maybe even a small disadvantage. One thing I will say is when we train people for hypertrophy here in RP, and they come from a strength training background, and they will attest to this themselves, they have to kind of learn how to train for strength training. Like people who are from powerlifting will try to use every fucking muscle in their body to get a lift. And we're like, no, no, no, no, no, this is a skull crusher using triceps and they're like, oh, and it takes them a few sessions to really get into the groove. So maybe it's actually doing something you don't want to do. Number three, strength training, tissue you have to preserve your technique, even under heavy stress. You have it like so does high rep hypertrophy training. Near failure training, sets of 12 sets of 10. Yeah, you'll learn how to preserve your technique or die trying. Same with strength, no advantage there. It's the going hard that does that, not the heavy lutes. Number four, strength training directly stimulates muscle growth via high tension, accurate. But it misses out on much of the metabolite stimulus. It misses out on high volumes entirely. Thus it grows much less muscle than hypertrophy training and for a higher price of fatigue. It would be very curious to be doing power lifts for sets of three or six anywhere between that, and be doing that next to a power lifter who's doing sets of five to 10. And you ask to, hey, you're getting an lifting and a power lifter. I thought you were a bodybuilder. You're just trying to put on more size and use the strength training for it. He's like, uh, okay, and you're like, what are you doing? Why are you doing sets of five to 10? He's like, trying to get bigger because that's the hypertrophy fucking range for the love of God, backwards. So makes no sense. Number five, heavy training, strength training allows you to use heavier external loads, like more weight on the bar, in future higher rep training. Right? But here's the deal. We try to have technique in hypertrophy training to maximize internal loads. I want to use as little weight on the bar as possible, but I want to arc an architect and move my body into such a way that really hits my triceps internally to triceps, generally going to turn a force, externally not so much. Here's a really good example for the quads. Squatting for hypertrophy, you squat a little bit back and then down, leading your knees come forward, leading to quad stretch a ton. Now the quad stretched at the bottom means internally they are pushed to their limits with force production. Externally, it's such a poor leverage point for quads, then if you simply sat back and down and went just below parallel, the quads are better leveraged, you can lift externally a shitload more weight. Same thing that if you put the bar in a low bar position, crazy external loads, but internally your muscles are working no harder. So what exactly here is the advance? Most muscle growth occurs per fiber, per muscle cell. And if you just bring a muscle close to failure and you're really try hard, that really checks pretty much all the boxes. Some growth does occur between fibers and through connective tissues. But again, if you try to arc, sorry, try to position that muscle in position those movements in such a way, as to put themselves into a mechanical disadvantage. The internal tension generated by the muscle is at least as high as it is in strength training. But at the benefit of not having to put 500,000 fucking pounds on your back. Not a winner here again. Number six, strength training can provide much needed volume and exercise variation. You do different movements, low bar versus high bar squats, competition benching versus incline benching, and your volumes are like a third or two thirds of what they would be in high-perature training. That's really good. That's really good. But sets of three to six are really heavy and thus provide a lot of fatigue, specifically joint and connective tissue fatigue. And they layer in a small but notable addition of injury risk. I mean, it's just a statement of fact that lifting heavier will on everything else being equal, be more likely to hurt you than lifting lighter. So is it worth? Let me tell you guys about the RP high-perature fiat with over 28 preset programs already in the app. You can choose to make your own. You can modify an existing program or you can just run the programs exactly as they were written by E person on this app programs, everything for you. Exercises weights, sets, reps, frequency, the whole thing. After every single workout and every single week, the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now, you're pretty interested in the app, download the RP high-perature fiat today. Tough. Very tough. So that's all six points. Let's get to the verdict or what sort of what I finally think about all these things. We got ABC and D. I have tired of numbers. Now we're using letters. Point A. As far as I can tell, there was no compelling reason. There could be nuanced marginal reasons but no compelling reason. For most hypertrophy oriented lifters such as maybe yourself to incorporate strength training as a matter of its own benefit to the whole process of growing muscle. Not to say that if you don't want to get just fucking strong, hey, my blessing to you. Point B. For variation and volume reduction, you can use maintenance phases and then you can use sets of five to ten reps. Few are set so that it's just maintenance and not between your minimum effective volume and maximum recoverable. So really about a third of the normal volume use for training. And if you use those, they're superior on fatigue accumulation. They accumulate very little fatigue and much less injury risk because it's not heavy as fuck, so that's at three to six. It's much lighter significantly, five to ten. And if you layer in maintenance phases with some active rest phases, you're bringing down the total system fatigue like crazy in a way that is categorically better than what a strength training phase would do. And ask any power lifter after three or four months of hard strength training sets of 36 are they really less fatigued? That would be an insane thing to say. They're really like, what the fuck is wrong with you? I'm beat to shit. That's not really bringing down fatigue for my bodybuilding purposes and you would be completely correct. See beginners should probably spend the majority of the first year, even two, doing sets of five to ten reps. They do get lots of volume for growth, but also that five to ten five to six five to seven gets them a lot of benefits of strength training as well. Technique under stress, neurocordination, motor unit recruitment because they might not have the technical wherewithal to do high reps close to failure. They can absolutely do low reps relatively close to failure and maintain their technique. After about a year, maybe two of training the return on investment of just dogmaticly sticking to the five to ten range and avoiding ten plus reps, just is very low. The return on investment could even be negative where it's like why are you doing this? Compare to using the entire broad range of sets of five to 30 repetitions and finding out where you're best training in their occurs and varying it. You're best stimulus to fatigue ratio. Lastly, point D. If you choose to strength train, you're like, look, like, I hear you, man, but I want to get fucking strong too and the board is fucked doing a purgatory training. No, or is it all? A few tips for you as to how to take you and take your hypertrophy training and transition it to a type of strength training and doing strength training in a way that hurts you the least of benefits you the most to hear it as a couple of tips. First, ease into the loads. If you've been squatting to 25 for sets of 15, do not just come to the gym the next day and start your strength phase and just put 275 on the fucking bar. Could it shift 45? Then 255, then 265, etc. Don't just go and say. Next, probably try to focus on exercises that will carry over to hypertrophy a little bit more. High bar squats. If you want to get stronger, but you don't want to compete in powerlifting, just stick to high bar squats for such low bar, in most cases. There's low bar beats the shit out of your body more, ask any powerlifting. High bar is gentler on the body, but we'll make you very strong and high bar so we can come back to getting an hypertrophy work. Hey, shit, you'll be high bar god. Next, take a few months so you can measureably improve. Two mesocycles at least not just one. A lot of people will say, oh, I want to do strength training and do it for like a few weeks. They're about to just begin to make the neural and architectural adaptations to really start to get them stronger and they're like, I am done. Okay, just kind of beat up your body for a few weeks. You just take it to maintenance phase. If you want to get really strong strong, three, four, five months of strength training, in months three, four and five is when you're going to be like, oh, we shit. I might start to fight crime. I can bend a fucking barbell and then it snaps and part of the metal just flies and fucking hits the old lady in the eye and just like, ah, oh, shit, am I a villain and you lean into it. You're like, fuck it. You finish off the old lady with the other bar here and I don't even know I have any more. Shout out, Mike. Next, make sure the total volume is low. So you can at least use the strength training time to resensitize the higher volumes so that once you're done with strength and then you take that last point of an active rest phase after to really clear at all the fatigue, specifically the joint and connective tissue stuff which will be you up a little bit. After that active rest phase and a whole bunch of very low volume strength training, you can come back to hypertrophy training, start at very low volumes and slowly ease up. When you will notice that your pumps and soreness and all the other proxies for growth are incredible at very low volumes and it's going to take you months to get back up to traditional volumes and you're going to be gaining the entire way all the way through. So folks, if you have questions in the comments, I'd love to address a few of them at least. Give it some thought. If you like this kind of nerdy stuff, we will see you in our members area which for more money. We'll get you more nerdy videos every week. Then guys remember I see none of this money. It goes directly to my butlers who go directly to the Lamborghini dealership and they drive back in a lambo. They all take rubbers to the dealership because it always come back with a new lambo. Kind of a official rule at my house if a butler leaves to go to the dealership and comes back without a lambo, they don't have a job anymore. I don't give a shit if they're a rattle lambo, steal them other fuck. And lastly, if you like this kind of stuff and you want to ask me questions that in real life and by real life I mean in a live video chat, see you on chatterbait. I'm just kidding. Do you think we'll get flagged for that? I sure hope not. See you at the team full-romb forum all the links are below. Get off chatterbait to your channel. Get a job. See you guys next time.

Hey folks, it's me Dr. Mike and welcome to the Targeting Muscle Series, our target. Is hamstrings and we're going to be doing good mornings. How do you use the good morning exercise to help check most just a few little quick things? To be able to target the hamstrings better, we have a bunch of tips. Let's get to tip number one ASAP. We want to anteriorly tilt our pelvis so the hamstrings are pre-stretched. And then when you're doing a good morning exercise, you have to go to the least amount down using the least amount of physical work, getting least amount of fatigue, but still hit the hamstrings lot. The number one place where that comes from is from the hips and lower back. I want you to arch your lower back, so you're going to be doing this having sex backwards movement. Notice my lower back is going to be nice and arched and tight. And then when I start to sit in for my good morning, I've already pre-stretched my hamstrings a ton. If you post your early pelvic, you tilt and bear down. You start to go down. You're going to be going down a long time until you feel anything your hamstrings. Because they're not pre-stretched. So tip number one, push your butt back, arch your lower back, and then start to descend back and down. Tip number two. So if you arch your back appropriately and then you're scooting your butt back as you bend over, you're going to notice that your knees are going to want to go forward. Because the hamstrings are going to be pulling on them, and that is going to end up curling those knees for you. We don't want to do that. We want to pull the hamstrings apart at the hip and at the knee. Tons of eccentric tension leads to tons of hypertrophy. So what we want to do is as we arch back and push our butt back, and we hinge bend at the hips. We want to make sure that we're not completely straight-need like this. If it's something just outside of that bend, and instead of letting the knees bend, as you keep going, you want the knees to stay just a bit back. As you go down with the knees back, back arch knees, back, back arched. Ow, I'm hurting already in the hamstrings, and that's really good sign. For some folks arching the lower back and pushing the knees back is going to be everything they need, and they're going to get an awesome stimulus to fatigue ratio, great hit for the hamstrings. But for other folks, myself included, as I get deeper, I start to not know what my back is rounding or not. Not a huge safety concern with most loads, but definitely a concern that if your back is rounding, the lower back muscular starting lower back muscular chair is starting to be the primary muscle hit, and no longer the hamstrings. So if the cue that helps me, especially at the bottom, as I'm doing my good morning down, I think chest up. If I push my chest up the entire time chest up and out, and I think knees back, my back automatically arched just for me, and everything was great. Chest up, just up, just up, hold me back that hurts already, and then gently come up. It works. All right, next big tip. With a bunch of exercises, if you go pretty quick on the eccentric, nothing much happens. You still get a great stimulus. The good morning is not one of them. In good mornings, you want to make sure that the tension is all in the hands. And if you go down quickly, first of all, that's exactly ideal for hamstring injury risk, because if you go down fast with good mornings, you're increasing the leverage pushed into the hamstrings on the way down. They get more and more painfully stretched the further you go. That's bad news to try to hit really fast. You don't want to dive on this exercise. And if you go too fast, you can lose connection with what else is going on. So the best things to do for hamstrings is a more than usual exaggerated slow-away centered. I like to take it. Be more a second, and then do my shit. Now, hunt center can be totally fast, no problem. E-centric should be slow. Next big tip. As you start the exercise, and you're doing repetitions, you may be able to get a great-mind muscle connection. Your hamstrings are firing everything's awesome. What you may run into as a problem is as you fatigue, your mind muscle connection in decrease, and it can become just a matter of you going up and down any or way, and just doing the movement. So here's the big tip. As you get more fatigued, as you get closer to failure, supercure yourself, slow it down even more. As you're getting close to failure, chest up, chest up, chest up, knees back, knees back, back arch, chest up. There we go. Slow and meticulous and steady. That's more important to do closer to when you're failing. Versus in the first few reps. So a lot of people have really great techniques. So a lot of people have really great technique for a couple reps. As they get tired of the breakdown, so when I do to combat this, as I know I'm getting tired, I'll remind myself of the technique used. Hips back, knees barely bend, knees straighter, knees straighter, chest up, and then every rep towards failure is awesome. Mission accomplished. Last question in last tip. How deep to go on good mornings is deeper better? No. What's better is getting deep enough so that you're generating a ton of tension still with the hamstrings, a lot of eccentric pain in the hamstrings, but you're still strong and you're positioning in your lower back and your knees has not been compromised. So watch this. If I go, now this is unloaded, I could go a little deeper with weight. By the way, this is a transformer bar from Mr. Christophin. It's fucking awesome. I think it's a jetpack too. I can fly away with. But this works all those tips work for any other bar. If I go with really good technique unloaded, knees back right here is where I feel an incredible amount of pain in my hamstrings. My back is still arched, chest still up, knees still back. This is the bottom of my dump. I can't really go any further. If I wanted to go further, I would have to do one of three things round my chest, round my back, lose that tension, or curve my knees over and bend my knees. Now look at this. Holy shit. Watch this. Wow. Best-Rom ever bullshit because that's not hamstring around. So how you pick your best-depth is arch into your technique super well. And when your knees are back and when your chest is up, when you're experiencing a ton of pain and stretching the hamstrings, that's when it's time to go back up. What you can do is set the supports in a place you know that's roughly going to happen after a bunch of sessions. And then gently touching the supports tells you you did a good rep. But before you do that, explore, get your technique right, do your best, and then it's all massive hamstrings, sees of massive hamstrings from their unout. Guys, thank you for tuning in. See you next time.

That was awful. Grab the bar, do it again. Do you want to be on the channel? Here you are on the F*** channel. Ha ha ha ha ha. Hold on a cry, seriously. Good, you can cry on camera, it's okay, you won't be the first or the last. I'm the one who's been on the channel. Folks, I'm Dr. Mike. This is a lot of us that link you with it. I may be one of the only people in the world to be able to say that because I am from Russia originally. She is from Lithuania, otherwise known as Lithuania, which is a sure, how actually easier to say in Lithuania. Here's the thing with Lithuania. They have at least a lot of who is an IFB bikini pro. But Lithuania actually has like maybe half of the world's strongest humans of all time and the strongest man to ever walk there. So as a journalist of these guests, who is just is King and God and Emperor and everything that is man. The real cool question before you introduce the rest of the video. Have you ever run into him in real life? Actually, yeah, I believe I did, but it was very long time ago. But you never forgot because now you know how true romance feels, seeing a real man. Exactly. Exactly. This is how it flies. Perfect. Reading Romeo and Juliet, but in real life. Excellent. When I saw him, it was much the same. Folks, good news is Lada is an unbelievable shape. She is two weeks out of a show. Almost two weeks out. We're going to go hard. We are going to train glutes. We are going to train hamstrings. We're going to do a little bit of quad work. Because the judges are like, your quads are too big or whatever. What a win of A no. Just kidding, judges. She's great. But that's the upside. The other upside is this. Anyone else we have on the channel, you can try hard and it's totally cool. Yeah. You cannot try anything other than the maximum. Because Lithuania has a strength lineage and you're at the very top. This is why I need to show off. Time to show off. Time to show off. Time to show off. Time to show off. Front foot on. Back foot wherever's comfy. Nice and far back. It doesn't have to be forever back. And here's the big deal. This will be easier when you have the bar in your hands. You want almost all of your weight on the front foot. The back foot, you stand on your toe, it's just for balance. Yeah. So front foot slow and controlled gentle touch on the ground. I'm still putting all of the weight in the muscle. I can, my foot back here is doing almost nothing. And then come up and then again make sense. Everybody on the front right. Everything on the front. Smith machine. Front foot elevated lunge. The critical thing here is to put as much weight in the front foot as possible. And as little weight in the back foot as possible. Slowly controlling the descent, slower, slower, slower, slower. Then you think no matter what you think it's slower on the way down, go real deep, pause for a second and come up. Narlie and here's the other thing. People like to do one leg and then switch into the other leg. Don't switch right away. It's systemically fatiguing. Do one leg. Rest like at least 15 seconds. 30 seconds to be still strong and then go to the max leg. It's like one arm row. You don't switch right away. It's one separate set from the other. 15. Three more. Slow. We only count good reps. 16. Again, don't rest. There's no rest. 17. Down. Slow. Up. That was too fast to do it again. Slow. Yes. It's more hypertrophy for you. That's why you're here. Yeah. Hell yeah. There you go. Perfect. Good. Rest it out. I'm going to just cry in the corner. Oh please. Wait for me. 16. Two more. Slow. Pause. Up. One last one. Make it good. Right away. Slow. Pause. Up. Yeah. Hell yeah. Rack. Oh shit. Oh day. Oh my. You're doing us as smiling right now. He's proud. He's so proud. Yeah. You feel he's okay. Quads a bit. Yeah. I've got some of my plants always turn to do quite a bit of job with any exercise that I do. Yeah. You do imperils. You feel your ball. Exactly. Hold on a try. Good. You can cry in camera. It's okay. You won't be the first or the last. Yes. 13 down. 14 down. 15. You got to pause the bottom to get the next one. Slow as hell when we do it again. Yes. Rack. Good. Good. Stop. Okay. Rack's it out a little bit. 12 amazing. Almost there down. Slow. 13 down. Slow. Slow. 14 down. Down, down, down, down. Slow. Oh god damn it that was terrible. Come up. That's 14 again. Lotta. Fix it. You can do better. Go slow. Up. Beautiful. One more left. Slow as hell. Wait. Up. Rack. I'm so glad we are done here. Oh, to the turf to do deadlift. Yay. Yay. Next exercise is the sumo deficit deadlift. A couple cues here. Why do they show to a stance? Toes pointing further out than you think is reasonable. Usually the cue. Because if you point in this way your knees go over if you point him out your knees go out. Your back stays nice and flat. You're going to feel your glute stretch already. The deficit is to put that fucking nasty stretch on them and then stand back up and then slow on the way down with a gentle pause at the bottom of every single breath and come back up. If grip is an issue, use versegrips or straps. Double overhand is totally fine if you're doing it for hypertrophy work. Do not bend your arms. So when you first get the bar straight in your arms out, put tension for your shoulders and then come up. It is not a fucking bicep exercise. I think it trains the suffering muscle. Do you have dishes for like tears? You're lifting the waning. The blood of your enemies will be your tears. We'll go slow. Slow work doesn't count. Wait. Up. Go. Go. One more bonus round. You're lifting the waning and wake up. Slow. Slow. Newsy. Breathe. And then slow it. If you're going to do another one. Chest up. Slow. Slow. And drop. Good stuff. Oh my god how many sets are we doing here? Like 80. We're bigger for hours. I'll find 90. You talk me into it. One more. Chest up. Slow. That was awful. Grab the bar. Do it again. Two more reps. Chest up. Stand up. Good. One more. Slow. Slow with a pause. Come on Latter. Slow. Slow. Slow. Wait. Up. Up. And then slow it. If you're going to do another. Go. Slow. Slow. Slow. Wait. Wrap. Woo. Where about eight? Two more. Look forward. Begin. Slow. Slow. Slow. Wait. Slow. Up. That was terrible. Do it again. Good technique. Hold onto that bar Latter. Hold onto the bar. Squeeze the bar. Slow. Wait. Up. Get the bar. Up. Up. Up. Up. And then slow. As if one more. Slow. Slow. Slow. Rack. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. The slow motion of it is the best part. Doesn't even have the enemy movement. There you go. That was great. That was great. Now we do RDL. Oh no. So the first rep I want you to pick it up just like a deadlift. Just regular. Yeah. Now, chest up, hips back, knees back, slow. Yes, except like three times lower. Yeah. Yeah. Chest up, slow, low, low, low, low and up. Good. And again, fought back, knees back, knees back, yes, and up. Very good. And rack. This is so easy. Too heavy. Yeah, yeah. Well, it's a little less grace. That was very good. You were too hopeful. Too hopeful. Well, we beat you up so bad on the deadlift. So there's nothing left. Up. Good. Good. One last one. Again, go, slow. Knees back, knees back, tension on the hamstrings. Don't let it go. Up. Go, go, go. And then if you're going to do another one, slow on the way down, begin. Chest up, fought back, knees back, knees back, knees back, slow, weight. Up. That's it. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. And glutes. And glutes of force. For the next set, I want you to come down and almost at the ground. I'll tell you when to stop. I want your knees to be back and I want you to wait for two seconds. But the way to stone your hands, you're not unloading it. You're just folding it. Like a centimeter above the ground. Go. One more. Go. Go. Go. Slow. Knees back, knees back. Up. Nobody's set up yet. Again, go. Go, go, go, go, go. We hear the train. We hear the lift weights. You said you wanted to be on the channel. Here you are on the fucking channel. Wait. Up. Down. Slow. Slow. Knees back. Knees back. Knees back. Knees back. Knees back more. Up. Oh, that's it. That's failure. Woo. One more set left. Whenever you're ready. Take a nice long break. The series you want to kill me today. That's my job. Killing people. I mean, killing. You don't look dead. I don't want to call it. Almost killing. Up. Good. Two more. Again, slow. Back, knees back. Up. Yes, one more. Hit it. Slow. Knees back. Knees way more back. Now wait. Up. Up. Up. Up. And then slow is it. You're going to do another one. Good technique. Knees back from the start. Knees back. Back. Back. Back. Knees back. Slow. Slow. Wait. Rack. Oh, my goodness. This was the last one. That was the last set of stiff leg of deadlets. You can die in the floor again if you want. To finish off the workout. One set of squats for the quads. But it's a fun RP style set. We'll clue you in when the time comes. Fun doesn't sound good. Well, fun's relative. You're going to stand on the plate. Toast point it slightly out. We'll give you the bar. You'll have the bar on your back. You're going to squat down. And the main thing is two things. Chest always up. Knees always forward. If you squat like this. Pause at the bottom until I say up. Come up. And then again, you're going to do as many reps as you can with the bar. Lose a bit. It's going to come over and we'll spot you. Oh, please. After you've done like 80 reps or something, we'll take the bar off for your hands up and you keep doing squats until you cannot do squats. Wait, look forward. Up. Stand up. Oh, you got another one. Begin. Go. It's only pain. Look forward. You're going to do more. We rest. The more reps we have, you just keep bucking going. Up. Go. Go. Go. One last one in your dung. Roll the bar up on your shoulders. Roll the bar up. One last rep. You better do it right. Or it'll be two more reps. Look forward. Look forward. Slow. Deep. Deeper. Rest. Wait. Up. Stand up. Stand up. You can do it. You can do it. Let go of the bar. Stand up. Hands forward. Hands forward. Right now. Right now. Let's go. Right now. Hands up. Look forward. Go slow and low. Slow. Slow. Wait. Up. Stand up. Again. Two. Down right away. Good. I'm going to help you with these. I'm helping. Go up. You're not. Down. Slow. Control it. Up. Up. Up. One last one. For fun. Resist me on the way down. Begin. Resist. Resist. Let me feel some of that with the waning strength. Chest up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Oh. Oh. We'll count it. That's it. Please. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Down's great. That was really good. That was really good. Aw. You really tried. I'm sorry. I'm fondly thing we ever asked on the channel. Two things. Good technique. And you try. And then both. And now you can't walk anymore. I'm supporting my punch sheet. Of course. And you didn't. Tell the folks how you feel. Well. I feel fine, Dan. But it feels good. I feel pumped. My grooves are pumped. Hamstrings. Quads. Legs. You've complained to the average amount, but... ...avers? Below average actually. For bikini, way below average. So don't tell the other bikini girls I said that. What can people find you if they want to see more of you? They can find me on Instagram and YouTube, which is... ...selling Khabituda. I'm sure it will be linked below. Well, link below. I know. It will be easier as my surname. No one can spell it. So yeah. And you put up YouTube content pretty regularly? Weekly. Weekly YouTube content. Guys, check it out. Amazing YouTube. Amazing athlete. And just look for William. So better than the rest of us. Thanks for being on the channel. Thanks for watching. Awesome.

My earlier assessment of isometrics was similar to what a lot of science folks were saying. 5, 10 years ago. We used to say that isometrics were inferior for growth, compared to dynamic that is moving, concentric, eccentric, muscle contractions. It seemed valid at the time, tentatively to say they grew less muscle than dynamic contraction, but is that still true? Our isometrics back on a menu for muscle gains. Let's find out. We have a new study to look at and I'm going to rant a ton about how this fits into the overall picture and give you guys actionable training advice. The new study is the effects of long muscle length isometric versus full range of motion isotonic training on regional quadriceps the Morris hypertrophy in resistance trained individuals who in the authors are a star started cast of Dorian Vardavic Barovic Christian Saganjad Milo Wolf Milo Wolf and Bartro Klus on Dr. Lakis Karakakis which is none other than a doctor pack. Who by the way Scott has Android in his name? Oh my name? It's pretty dope. And then a Brad John Showenfeld, I don't know who that is and a Pavle Mikulich which is basically Scott this study group is like a bunch of Slavic Hitmen like the last people you see knocking on your door and Serbia and pack in Milo the dynamic duo and the Brad Showenfeld who invented hypertrophy. It wouldn't be no hypertrophy for y'all at smoke unless Brad Showenfeld was enough. So what did the study find? It had 23 participants. They trained both of their quad's six weeks straight two times a week, where they cool. But they trained each leg differently so they served as their own controls which means the statistical power, the ability of the study to find out what's going on is really high because genetics and all that stuff goes out the window. Diad and lifestyle also got the window. The only thing you're really testing is like one type of contraction versus the other. One leg did normal full range of motion-leg extensions, difficult. The other leg they put into the most stretched position or a very stretched position and had them press on that plate which didn't move so it's isometric as hard as they could for a few rounds. And so basically what happens is you're testing traditional dynamic contractions versus isometric contractions and the results were basically that both quad's grew about the same. There was some regional differences in quad growth but I think they're so small and so speculative that I'm not even having a comment down there. I hate when the we'll study insight gets taken way too far and all of a sudden we're concluding to the moon. However, the main finding that about the same growth resulted from isometrics and dynamic training is a big deal. Why is that such a big deal? My earlier assessment of isometrics was similar to what a lot of science folks were saying five, ten years ago. We used to say that isometrics were inferior for growth compared to dynamic that is moving concentric eccentric muscle contractions. Like isometric stable contractions where you're pushing and getting something and pulling and something that doesn't move we said was inferior for growth. This is because a lot of the earlier work on rodents, rats and animals of that nature and even some of the human work showed inferior muscle growth outcomes for isometric versus dynamic work. So while it was never valid to say that isometrics don't grow muscle it seemed valid at the time tentatively to say they grew less muscle than dynamic contraction but is that still true? Well this study that we just talked about by a lot of it in colleagues is just a part of a grander pattern that's been emerging in the last five years and that pattern is that a decent number of studies in the past five years have come out and essentially showed that isometric training five, five, five, ten, really, you can think about it. Isometric training causes a very robust growth sometimes comparable growth to dynamic training and interestingly enough earlier rat studies that I just read recently again, they're fun. One of the rat studies suspected that one of the reasons why the rats were not growing much from isometric rat training is basically when they hang on a little ladder with weight off their tail is that the muscles were in the shortened position and that if you got these muscles isometrically contracted in a lengthened position that you could actually stimulate more gains and we find that many of the studies recently published that show isometric severe robust for growth are also in that lengthened position because it used to be when they tested isometric severe always are almost always the shortened position curious that that prediction came out to be true. So now as of today as of 2025, 2025, it's unwise to say confidently that isometric sure a waste of time or don't work as well and it's better to say that at least at the lengthened positions in a deep stretch, isometric's might cause robust growth and be a valuable tool in training but isometrics have downsides almost all of them are practical downsides first. You know you're close to failure when your bar speed starts to slow down or the weight starts feeling really heavy and you know you're at failure when you can't move the weight anymore but what the hell does failure in isometric contractions even look like? It's really really tough to talent practical circumstances but it's a way later I'll show you how but it's tough. And the reason we concern about that is because to ensure you're recruiting lots of muscle and growing well you want to get close to failure at least in the conversation three or four upshot failure but with isometric at some point you just kind of give up pushing on the bar and how do you know you pushed it to your limits and here's the other problem that sort of dovetails in with eccentric training with concentric training on the way up on curls for example use a normal amount of nervous system activation. With eccentric training you use less so your nervous system gets less tired but your muscles get just as much growth if not even a little more. With isometric training use a ton of nervous system dry combine the fact that the isometric use of ton of nervous system drive and the fact that you don't really quite know when to quit with isometric and that is a recipe for getting very very neurologically tired for my symmetric training set for set that you would from dynamic training and that could be not great because nervous system fatigue does accumulate like all forms of fatigue and eventually it could cut your mesocycle short and make you not gain as much muscle because the training is less sustainable. In addition to that isometric's may not grow the whole muscle as evenly as dynamic contractions and they're positionally dependent so isometric's short muscle length seem to grow the proximal ends of the isometric's long muscle length seem to grow the distal end of the fibers which is to say more towards the end of your muscles away from the center of your body towards the limbs. But no isometric really grows overall that well because it's kind of one or the other bias. If you put it in the middle of the middle of the middle of the muscle but doesn't do much else for the sides are as much rap. Another hit on isometric is that they don't transfer to dynamic abilities as much. When you lift weights you do the full range of motion you get a ton of health benefits which also get a ton of strength benefits. You get a ton of mobility benefits. With isometric's you don't get nearly those benefits because what kind of sport are you isometric contracting in sports like that do exist but most sports most physical activities picking up your groceries pushing your kids in a cart pushing zombie children away from you throwing zombie children into the air and shooting them out of the air with shotguns like Scott that went real far but there's zombie children. There are real children there ghosts of ones children before but not anymore. That all requires dynamic strength and isometric's don't transfer to a rear-world shit as much. So let's some downsides. However you can implement isometric's effectively in your training plan in a few ways. First you can pause your reps under load especially in the bottom portion of lift for example with leg presses. Benchpressive and dead hang pull ups still actively contracting your quads actively contracting your pecks actively contracting your lats your lats your lats but at that very length and position can generate tons of tension. I symmetrically and can stimulate growth and is even super safe because it lowers that rebound energy you get and the probability of pulling a muscle is now much lower so extra safety and a bit of good growth can be had by doing pauses which is why for not all of my stuff but a lot of my stuff I do pauses anyway so we're already checking that box of isometric's because that's what pausing is it's an isometric contraction and now we know probably system games. The second thing you can do is use isometric long-length contractions as finisher. I hate the term finisher is mostly because I'm a person taking a asshole but let's say you're doing a last set of machine presses for chest and you are done doing dynamic reps either as close to failure as you want to be or you actually want to failure what you do here is you come down to the very stretched position but about half an inch above that so your muscles are almost at maximum stretch but completely active because they're lifting up that bottom half inch. You stay in that position and prevent the weight from clank clanking all the way down under the stretch for as long as you can or start with an extra five seconds and then next week do an extra ten and then the week after that try 15 and so on and so forth. That really timed out long long length and long duration isometric contraction right when your muscles are the most tired it's all you can do but it really milks that last bit of stimulus for muscles it's an excellent finisher that you can give a try to anytime you like it's fun it's challenging and adds loads of growth when you're too tired to do dynamic reps anymore so it's excellent for like a last set or a last set of last exercise for muscle. Shit one of the things you guys can do is do bodyweight squats at the end of heavy leg presses or hacks squats or regular squats do the two thirds my a rep style which basically you go from bottom of the squat up two thirds bottom of the squat up two thirds until you can't do squats anymore and then what you do is you fix your butt just below parallel. Scott we've done that with Tristan and a few other folks before Mr. Tristan Lee you get just below parallel and you sit in that position you're not sitting all the way down you are asked to sit at just below parallel for as a long as you can that is a narrowly long length isometric contraction and will 150 billion percent grow you more muscle it's fun and it's especially fun if you're the trainer so personal trainers for watching this you'll free to toast your clients with a setting time you like because you get to yell at them they get super hyped and motivated it's a fun challenge and the best part about being a trainer is you don't have to go through the pain if you want to go through the pain it's going to lead to more growth. I'm almost done but I have one more really important thing to tell you guys. I want to steer you guys a tiny bit away from thinking there is a particular kind of muscle contraction that you have to be emphasizing at the expense of all others there are three contraction types e-centric isometric concentric is when you're lowering load against resistance isometric is when you're holding load in place and concentric is when you're lifting and raising the load the muscle is shortening and accomplishing work. I want to trend you guys into the direction of using all three contraction types in your training why because we have good reason to believe that each of the three contraction types hit muscle hypertrophy from slightly different angles and slightly different mechanisms even and thus if you use all three you might be able to get more growth overall there was a paper back in the day in 2017 by franchy and colleagues it's titled skeletal muscle remodeling and response to e-centric versus concentric loading more phological molecular and metabolic adaptations it's a great paper I would say get a link to that paper and just shoot it into the chat gbt and be like hey really take your time to think this through and summarize the implications of this paper to me is deeply as you can it'll do a great job with that or you're going to need the paper yourself if you like what they did was it's a review paper talking about all these different contraction styles and what they actually caused the muscle to do and one of the big take homes from that is that the dynamic contraction of the concentric contraction what that tends to do well actually let me start with e-centric's first because it's going to make more sense e-centric contractions grow more muscle in series which means they actually make your muscle belly a little bit longer longer fuller muscles are 100% the thing that you want in bodybuilding and in physique by doing that what they do is now that your muscle is a longer you can fill more of them in width wise and the overall volume is going to skyrocket and then you do do that a bit as well but e-centric contractions also tend to be biased towards longer muscle length portions of the muscle the distal portions of the muscle on my battery phrase that poorly so what happens here is if you take your bicep for example e-centric contractions can lengthen the meat of your bicep by a little bit and add more meat to the very end of it which is usually what's going to make you more aesthetic bigger meat down here on the triceps looks better than bigger meat up here it gives you more quads weep and the whole thing so that's the centric contractions concentric contractions grow your muscles more width wise than they do lengthwise and they grow more muscle in the middle of the muscle belly so if you think about this eccentric contractions lengthen your muscle and grow it more at the end concentric contractions contractions i what they do is fill in the middle a ton at the end of the day combining those two contractions allows you to have muscles that are fuller longer more on cut now sorry wrong video and thicker at the same time because if a muscle gets longer first and thicker later there's a more thickness to address there that gives you the ultimate combination of maximum size and the best kind of muscle shape which is more profound in the central and distal elements of the muscle that's how you get quads weep that's how you get bubble shoulders that's how you get meaty hanging triceps that's why I want you guys to focus on doing the eccentric and the concentric and now that we know that isometrics also grow muscle especially lengthen positions you can do isometrics as well which is a huge huge deal so all three contraction types are what you should aim to do in your training maybe not all the time you can have some mesocycles that you can program on your arpeight hypertrophy app that really take advantage of a centric's more you can have some the taken advantage of concentrics you can some that take advantage you can have some the taken advantage of isometrics more but these should be ingrained to play with all the time but wouldn't say well which is not word about concentric where is not word about eccentric where is not word about a symmetric you should be using all three contraction types in your training because there's decent reason to believe this is tentative but probabilistic that you can get more overall growth doing all three types regularly than just focusing on one of the other because here's the thing it's going to stay in today's culture but this is a universal across all of matter history people want Scott people want that one answer and when it's three answers they don't like that but what if I told you the rest three answers and that would in total get you the most growth because the one answer you're really looking for is what's going to make me grow better and the answer is probably doing eccentric concentrics and isometrics that's my big wisdom for you guys today if you want to use the arpeight hypertrophy app to help you with that amazing link in the description otherwise i'll see you guys next time hopefully your muscles are longer and thicker which is how I like it peace homies

Chastop. Chastop. Chastop. One more. Go. Don't swing. I'm in a fucking bicep pro lead. Enough with the drama. Slow. Chastop. Chastop. What's up, YouTube? Me. Today woke up, hoping I was someone else. Nope. Still Dr. Mike. Jared Feather wakes up every day, covered in his own actual life. I'm not sure if he's going to be a good guy. I'm not sure if he's going to be a good guy. I'm not sure if he's going to be a good guy. I'm not sure if he's going to be a good guy. I'm not sure if he's going to be a good guy. I'm not sure if he's going to be a good guy. But this was, you know, the best guy in the gym was a good guy. When I was in the gym, I saw a guy in the gym. He was like, hey, I love your stuff. Follow you guys, lob, lie, or two normally two, and that stuff out. Cause, you know what I'm saying, a lot of people come up to me and say Mike. You're saying change my life. I was like, yeah, whatever I drank them. Then he took a shirt off and flexes by his steps and his back. And I was like, what? And they showed me a picture of what he used to look like and I was like, huh? These crazy transformation. We all know that there are two rewards for an insane transformation. One is the reward of just living an amazing body, which you now do. Two, I'm just gonna get to train on the RP channel and get put through a really psychotic back workout and wish you had never had a transformation. Bring them come through to me. Sounds like a nightmare? I love it. Let's do it. So first exercise is gonna be assistant pull-up. Read as 250 pounds and we wanna make sure that he is able to do enough quality repetitions to convey good stimulus. That means minimum is sets of 5 to 10, but we're gonna focus on the quality. So he's probably gonna be doing sets of 10 to 15 in the assistant pull-up. Four sets. That means a lot of stimulus. Pay attention to the technique cues here because they can change the assistant pull-up into an actually super effective exercise. Versus just pull-ups for which you get help more on that later. Let's get to it. Big stretch. Keep forceful. Let's go, good stuff. We got it. Set me up. Uh-oh. Two more. Come on. Good. One last one. Come on. As high as you can, I can throw all these time. Four, four. Slow. Big stretch. Unwrap. Good stuff. Hell yeah man. This is your last set with this grip after we change grip. Yep. And it will give you a little less weight so you can get a quality contraction. Let's see if we can get good technique here. 5 to 10 reps. Okay? Come up as high as you can for a split second. And then control the defense. Keep stretch. Yeah. Yes. Hold the defense stretch all the way down. Now. Yeah. Set. Yes. Two more. Come on man. Get height. Slow. One last one. Nice and easy. Yes. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Two seconds stretch at the bottom. Beautiful. Oh my god. It's tough. Oh man. Good bump now. Yeah. Bro. It's hard. Hard. Reded two sets of slightly higher position. Normal assisted pull up to normal grip medium grip. Now he's going to do two sets with a slightly lighter weight knowing from a hundred pounds of assistance up to 145. He's going to do the parallel grip. He's going to get a bigger range of motion slightly more repetitions higher so it's a downside. It's actually a similar just slightly higher number of repetitions to get more volume and a little bit of grip variation. That's going to be four vertical pulling sets. We're going to be done with vertical pull. We're going to go in and do our rowing to make sure that all of the general areas of the back get hit. This is like a great overall back workout. It's going to be a total of eight sets of back that is high quality. Awesome number sets. If you train your back two times a week, even three times a week, that's a great amount of volume to try with your own program. You have a big chest here in the sound. Yes, yes. One last one coming up. Oh, shit, you got another one. Hold two stretch. Hold for a second. Let it pull you apart. That's it. Slow, slow, slow. Stretch. Unwrap. Hell yeah. Oh shit. Good shit. Good shit. Good shit. I never thought the old lady machine would be kicking my ass. That's what people think about it too. Yeah. It's like why would I use that? What do you show? Good effort. Yeah, the thing you said about like getting injured from those sets in the past, I assume you didn't maintain that strictive technique with stuff in order to mean. I'll try too, but we need to get to a head point. Right. Just don't allow yourself to eat that point. Exactly. And you're just the same, but no injuries. So you'll grow a shit load, but you won't have those shitty overuse injuries. Really? Like when you heard your back on bent rows, I don't assume they were touched the ground nice and just come up slow, you know what I mean? No, it was literally. I finished my head and I thought that's not fun. You can eat that shit, right? I thought I could eat out two or three more. Exactly. That's what I did it. Exactly. Yes, you just don't let yourself get to that point. And you use the Rubsim Reserve method. Right. And you can just monitor your volume and that capacity. Quick tip for the assistant pull-up in the lighter sets. You'll see that what Reed is doing is pulling weight above chest height. So he's pulling all the way down to the nipple line. This not particularly a lot of cool muscle activation, lats, et cetera. There's not ton that happens between here and here. Except it sets us up to go so high that you can engage eccentric resistance to the descent phase higher, which means your muscles get crazy. Accentric load all the way through a huge range. We essentially like are creating a bigger glass with which to fill with eccentric overloading milk. I don't know where I was going to go. You guys get the idea. If we pull really high, we can engage early, really turn the lats on and slowly control for big stretch. It meets every rep quality. You just don't have to do that many reps if the range of motion is really big. It's not the way to train. That's a way to train. Give it a thought on your own training. Pull nice and high with low handles. And then on the way up, don't just drop. As soon as you pull, lock in the lats and slowly let the machine peel your part, you will feel a stimulus. Slow. One more. Big power. Come on. Come on. So last one except big stretch before, pull stretch. Up. Oh no. Slow. Rack. Oh, Jesus. Oh my god. Never gotten the shakes from a pull up. Oh, what the fuck is that? Are you doing more at this grip? I'm going to have that with you last day here. I think we're going to do flexion rows next. Okay. I mean, no those are. Yeah. Okay, dokey. So four sets of assisted pull ups are done. Now we are going to do barbell flexion rows with re. The target of the flexion row is the entire complex of spinal electron muscular, which are as well as all the other pulling muscle, which is the big thing here is to maintain a rigid position. Then flex at the spine. And as you wrote, extend when touch for a split second hold after tummy. This is going to light your back on fire. If you've done tons of other back movements already, even if it's just one, this rounds out all the back development and really gets you super cooked up at the end. Give it a shot. If you go light, which we will, that's a 10 to 20. It's super safe for safe for the back. No, don't do 400 pounds of exercise right away or ever. And then you won't get hurt. This is going to be a good one. And do you guys ever know like you're trying to do your job at work? And so much as standing next to you, breathing heavy. It's annoying. It's a public gym people cover up not everyone wants to see goddess body, whatever girl you even wear in a bra. Don't answer that question. Let's get some fun. Hold. Slow. You can come up higher. Archer, hold back. It'll be easier to hold at the top. Come up. Go. Row and lean. Yes. And then slow. Just the same way again, Reeve. And just the same way again. We're in it for the long haul keep going. Boom. And then slow on the way down. Big stretch. That stretch was rushed. Slow. Stretch slow. Gentle touch. Up. Big chest up. Yes. You've got to stop at the top. I swear to God, we'll cut this video off. Let's go. Big moves. Yes. Three more in your dug. Big move. Slow. Stretch. Last one. Big chest. Go. Slow. Rack. You are. Jesus. I have you as 70 pounds I've been in my life. Isn't that crazy? It's just a work in the club industry. Yeah. It was a hustler and then crazy horse. The reason that girls never come up to the table that I'm at is the strip club. Is it because I'm ugly? Is it because I smell? Is it because I have bad breath? It was because I look for. Or probably the money asked. It's probably his money. They told where they think they see money. Okay. What do I have to dress up like to look like I have money? Segar. These at watch. Done. Done. Yeah. Choose. Not over-tode. Not open-toed. Yeah. No man. No man. When you're rich enough you don't need to. Screw. I bought those. They were the toast. People carry you. Or shoes. Yes. 100% why am I trying to walk anywhere? Two days. Stretch. There you go. A couple more. Reef. Big chest. Slow. Control. Arch. Oh. Yeah. One more. One more. Huge moves. Slow. Stretch the arms. Stretch slow. Stretch. Stretch. You don't feel that all the way down. Oh yeah. Upper back. All the way down through the back. Name a part of your back. You can't feel on this exercise. Oh no. Beautiful. You don't have to hold for that long but that was great. Again. Yes. Stretch. Big chest. Look forward. Keep your chest up. Yes. Just like that. Again. Yes. Two more on your done. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it at the top. Bring it to the stomach. Up. Back to the stomach. Yes. Slow. Hold. Slow. Slow. Slow. Don't rack. Hold right there. A little lower. Rack. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Ah. Like gosh. You can do barbell curls. Yeah. Does her elbows or anything? No. Famous last words. Same as last words. Same as last words. I don't know. Back is over. Reads back is crushed. His biceps could use a little bit more. A lot of times what Jared and I like to do is at the end of a back workout. Just a couple sets of biceps. It's not a ton, systemically fatiguing. Biceps are a high frequency, very easy recovery muscle. So if you're able to train biceps twice a week on their own with some other muscle groups here and there. But if you have a back workout, you just put two or three sets of biceps at the end. Maybe some higher matching. Maybe a drop set on the cable. It's a really great way to pepper in more biceps stimulus because you can never ever have big enough biceps. We all know this. Check out the cues that Jared is going to be giving to read how you execute even a regular barbell curl is a big, big deal. If you want the most lunge cavity for your training and to get the most stimulus out of a small amount of weight, Jared take over. Pro forward, elbows forward and in. Right here. Push them in a shit look. Feel that. And then lower from right there. Keep your elbows here. Lower. All the way down. All the way down. All the way down. From right here. And then up. Leave your elbows up front as you go down. Okay. Force them in towards each other as you curl up. Almost like you're doing a twist curl with a dumbbell like this supination. Keep your chest up. Yes. No bullshit. It's supposed to be hard. Good. Slow. Get those elbows in. There you go. Go. Good. Slow. Chest up. Chest up. One more. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Chest up. Chest up. Up. Good. Force those elbows in man. I'll buzz in. Chest up. In on the way up. In on the way up. Go all the way back down. Stretch. Now you've got to try a wrap. Chest up. And then. And then. Down. Slow. Down. Rock. That was good. Jesus Christ. Oh. Oh. Oh. Man. The more strict your technique is. The closer to failure, the biceps get sooner. I say. So you don't have to do as much. So just really keep your eye on the dry. I lose my technique there. Just really try to keep in mind. Fuck the wrap count. You know what I mean? You get eight. We get the shit. Yeah. I know this is perfect. We don't need to count reps. But ideally. Like we're using our RP training app. We want to count reps to keep track of how we're doing week to week. So the reality is first don't count reps. Just focus on technique. But the gold standard. So is to focus so much on technique that you can still count reps. His every rep is perfect in every rep counts. We don't want to not count reps because we're like some of these are bad. We want zero bad reps eventually. Of course, just the first time training with us. We're sticklers. A few reps are like not to our liking. But over time, you want to become a machine. Like when I train with Jared. Jared's a machine. Every rep looks the same. Every rep is flawless. And if you can't get another rep, it just doesn't happen. So there's no fearing of getting the failure. It's something that happens. It's awesome. But we're going to only ever get the failure because we demand so much of our technique. That at some point you're just like, No. I can't do that. Most people would like this. I was like push her. I was out. Yeah. That's how we get to the end there. I'm like. Yeah. The purpose is not to complete the rep. The purpose is to execute the technique. The chest. The chest. Yes. What does that mean? What does that mean? Oh. Elbows in. Slow. No swinging. But chest off. Full stretch. Full stretch. Oh no. That's it. Rack. Rack. Yeah. I got up at those like, That's not a set. Oh no. I'm like that. It has to end some time for everyone. No one can keep going. Do you know what? Yeah. Dude. You're lunges. Good stuff. I want you to tell YouTube folks how this work out went. Part of eight sets have ever done in one workout. Yes. She's. Yeah. You did phenomenal. Your masculinity is disgusting. Yeah. And you shouldn't be around children. Okay. But. But. But. But if you were, the children would have something to look up to that was Hulkesque. Yes. And that's what's really important. And that brings us to the mission of our channel. We're here for the kids. Jared, say something you know about human children. You, they come to the world. You wipe their blood with the white be. They shit everywhere. And they put everywhere. Folks. Wrap it up. Read. Thank you so much for being on our channel. It was a huge pleasure. You're enormous. Please continue to get more enormous. Folks, let us know what you like, what you don't like, what you feel, what you don't feel. And post about a comment, like subscribe. Only fans. See you later. What do you think?

Hey folks, I'm Dr. Mike Isrtle, and this is another episode of Hi-Purtrrophy Myths. Here's the thing guys, heavy singles for head-perrophy. Your dad did him, grandpa did him, and you remember that one time your parents opened up the old photo album, and you were like, let me and mommy, who's that? You're like, that's grandpa. What's he doing in that picture? Well, heavy singles for hi-perrophy son? Oh, I'm so proud. Don't be proud, because great grandpa is a fucking idiot. Sure, hope that laid enough for the YouTube algorithm, they're not cancel us for swearing. Here we go. As usual with the myths, we got the good. We got the bad. We got the real talk. But before that, we have to talk about what the myth specifically is. And the myth is already said it. There's a quote, a ghost of like this. I like working up to a heavy single, then drop and down and do in reps. It's usually said by a person who talks like that. And you can insert heavy double or heavy triple, and the shit just works the same way. So it's not just heavy singles this myth. Have anything less than five reps for sure, especially on the lower end of that spectrum. All right, what's the good? The good here for hi-perrophy, by the way, don't you get in the comments and talk about strength training. Yes, singles have an important role in strength training, definitely doubles in triples. But for hi-perrophy, and I'm talking about somebody who abjectly says, look, I want to get jacked, and I don't give a fuck about anything else, which is like most people who go to the gym. And or people who are like, especially people who are involved in competitive physics sports. Especially people's supplement contracts and incomes, pro-voted builders depend on that shit. Okay? There are some advantages, there are some advantages. You can do a few heavy singles or a heavy single or a double or triple, if you have your reps. And you can potentially, your nervous system to perform at a higher level in the several minutes thereafter for your next working set, which would be a normal five to 30-rap hi-perrophy set. When you do that next set, if you lifted very heavy right before, you can expect to get higher up numbers. One of these, there's both neural, direct, neural unlocking of your ability to really push. One of these is actually organelle-based. There's a Golgi tendon organ in your tendons. And it basically detects force and tells your nervous system to cap off its activity. If it feels like your tendons are experiencing really high force and I think it's going to tear. If you expose the nervous system in the Golgi tendon organ to very high forces, after several minutes, it like smokes a cigarette and goes, eh, everything is fine. It's okay. And I'd get to open yes. And then you're actually able to use more of your fucking raw nervous system to drive higher forces in more ability. You're a sort of unlocking or potential. It's like, I don't know, it's a getting hit in the face. First time you get hit in the face, it really hurts. The second time you're like, eh, I could be here all day. The third time you wake up in the hospital, and the doctor's like, actually it was not all day. It was three hits. You have a week, chin. In any case, here's the thing. If you do have a single, the nervous system kicks in. When, let's say you're trying to squat to 25 for as many reps as possible. And like, previously your best was 10. If you hit up like 315 for a fucking heavy single right before, when you have 225 loaded on your shoulders and the set after, let's say you take a three or four minute break. 225 on your shoulders. Bro, you walk it out. You're like, oh my fucking God, but I can press the shit. It feels like nothing because you just did something super heavy right before. When you start doing a reps, they'll be faster. You'll be more powerful. You will almost certainly get a few minutes. You'll get a few more extra reps amazing. Great. Your reps will feel lighter for sure. Because the reps will feel lighter, you'll often have a better mind muscle connection. Like you can have better technique and really open up and really hit your quads as opposed to like protecting yourself from the weight. Because you just expose yourself to a much heavy weight man. With this lighter weight, you feel free and feel like you would really focus on the mind muscle connection. And because of all those factors, often your externally viewed technique is better too. So it's a really big win, right? And faster fibers do in fact respond pretty well to heavy loading. So you'll get theoretically some hyper-traffic stimulus from even a heavy sink. This is a very steel man. Don't worry, will erase most of these things or rather replace them with better alternatives. Right now, here's the bet. Number one. One rep maxes and even singles and sort of doubles and triples. Cause almost no growth. Especially if you're advanced, you just need more fucking volume. You're proximity to failure and one of our ends are anything close to that. It just does not cut it. Number two. The injury risk from doing a heavy single or double or triple is real as fuck. And it gets more and more real, the bigger and stronger you get the more experience to get the older you get, the more you've had heavy loads under your belt before. Guys in the gym that are jacked and on tons of gear usually in the guy in clean pressing five plates, they almost never get hurt doing a set of 10 to 20 or sets of even five to 10. They generally get hurt doing drum roll. Maybe Scott the video guy will drum roll this. Maybe not. It'll just be in silence. Single doubles and triples. That's how many of the fuckers get hurt nine and ten times. And the sad thing about when bodybuilders, when powerlifts just get hurt with single doubles and triples. Hey, that's like, you know, that's like a shoulder soldier getting shot in wartime. That's what you do. It's part of the job, part of the risk. And you're bodybuilder. Why? Why? You just got hurt doing something that was not even remotely required. And not only was it required, not required. It was bad for you because of problem number three. It tires you out, especially if you psych up for it. You psych up for it. Because you know, like at the end of the day, let's be honest. And we're skipping a little bit, but I'll say this again later. The reason you're doing it is because you're an egotistical piece of shit. You want to go have it in your fucking reason. So you're going to do it. You're going to psych up for it. You don't take singles. You don't psych up for it unless you're doing the squat or foundation, but you're not doing that. You're doing like the fucking nuts get it. I want to fucking big single before month. The rest of my workout. It's going to tell you out psychologically and you're not going to be able to put in as much high quality work for high-perch if you later. Like even the expectation of having to hit a big single and the fear of it and the fucking fight or flight can tire you out before even start to work out. It's just draining in for no good fucking reason. Lots of bad downsides. Here's the real talk. All those benefits of potentiating and going heavy slightly. You can get with 110% of your working weight and you don't need to go to 150% whatever the fuck that converts when you're close to your one-rate backs. So if you're about to do 225 for reps instead of doing 315 for a single, do 245 for reps or like set of two. 245 for a single double or triple, rack, wait three to four minutes and then 225 will feel super fucking light and super good and all that good stuff. And if you really have to go even ever 255 and find to 65 and okay 275. But 315. Why? There's no good reason to do it. It gives you all the upsides of potential to go a little bit lighter as long as it's notably heavier than the working weight. And with minimal downsides. Yeah, you're not used to squatting through 15 even if you are if it's close to your max, you may tear your shirt up. Anytime you squat through 15 if your max is left roughly maybe on a good day 330. Anytime you have to go to the other back you may fuck your shirt up. It's not likely, sure it's how more likely than doing 225. But if you have 245 on your back instead, the marginal difference in injury risk is enormous cavernous. It's enormous. So if you get all the benefits pretty much with going just a little bit heavier than your work weight. But almost the reduction in downsides is insanely high. Why the fuck would you do this? And if something like singles doubles and triples don't really grow a ton of muscle directly. And it's a practice that puts you as a sizable risk of injury. It had better have a damn good reason for inclusion. For example, for power lifters, singles, don't grow muscle directly in any notable way. They definitely put you at a sizable risk of injury. So why do we do them? Well, there's a damn good reason. I have a fucker. You got to do them shit because that's what the competition is. It's specificity. They're going to ask you to do a single and competition. You hit better. Get good at it. Do it in plenty of triples doubles and singles. But when we look at hypertrophy training, hypertrophy training, that's hypertrophy myth. This is not general weight training myth. I hypertrophy myth. Why? God's name would you do this shit and it doesn't make any sense. There's only two reasons I can think of. Fucker is fun. It's fun getting together with your boys. Do you want a couple one RMs? Slap in each other's asses? Damn that felt good to do. Taking it to the locker room. More stuff happens. Try to fall asleep at night. You can't make the thoughts go away. Why did we do what we did? I wasn't comfortable with all that stuff. What is my sexual orientation? Is it all the above? God, I remember man one time when I was in my Jewish day school and in the rabbi. Fuck. Anyway, it's fun to have fun at the gym with the boys, even by yourself. And hitting singles is the shit. But if you think about it for a while, it makes no God damn sense. And there's all the ways to have fun. Like doing drops, that's in shit. That's actually hypertrophy. And really the big reason people do this is big weight ego. And that's it. Come, it's a male thing. Like when I walk with my wife through Costco, 100% chance, she stops to look at some bullshit trinket. It's a female thing. For U.S.J. W's getting the comments. Everything is on a normal distribution of spectrum and some females absolutely uninteresting, shopping my wife. It's a variant of that spectrum where she rarely does the thing, but she'll do the thing. And what do males un-average tend to do? They see a big weight. They want to pick it up. And it's fucking sweet. And that's what fucking it. Yeah. Hell yeah. But hell yeah. Well being smart. Hell yeah. Well understanding like, yes, I could try to pick up that giant tire in the road. But I could also pull my bag. Oh, my bag. But I could go to the store and find out if I have a gun on the road. But if you think that's something that you can't do. For U.S. listeners, don't do it. You're too prone to injury, J.K.F.F.F.L.S.A. maybe. You gotta be smart. And in her purchase of her training, you have to weigh trade-offs. Is this worth the risk or is it not. And if you're like, look, I like doing heavy singles. Fuck you, Dr. Mike, I understand the trade-offs and I'm still making them. Listen, I'll shake your fucking hand. Before you go in the rack and kill yourself. But respect. are good for hypertrophy. Let me know in the comments below. And if you liked this video, like it. Click like. You two apparently like that. If you really like this video, you've never heard my ass talk before. Hit the subscribe button and then you subscribe to shit. We also have a member section if you're a real fucking nerd and you want more nerd shit. We have tons of that all the time, bunch of videos every month for a super low price of whatever the price is. It's like five bucks. And other than that, go click on links and click on the description and buy our p things because remember, I now have 37 Lamborghinians. One of the botlers got real crazy. He was showing off and he crashed one of them. It actually fell into the lake that is surround my entire house. I pretty sure he drowned, but we were also a drunk guy. We didn't remember what happened to him. So I think it's 36 Lambo's. So we need that Lambo back. And we're not, I don't know, fuck with it. There's tons of lambo's in the lake that I just left forever. We don't even bother winging about. It's kind of cool. The fish, lovin' this one through a woman's like, you know, like a shipwreck. Except Lambo wreck. That's like half the lake. So we just leave it in there. So I have to buy a brand new Lambo. And I mean, I have to buy a, I don't go. The botlers go. They get in the Lambo as they come back. So buy some stuff. Lambo, collection must continue. I'll see you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pyrridsation, and I think hip thrusts are overrated. Oh boy, controversy. Alright, we got hip thrusts for the gym lusts. Yeah, that actually makes a little sense. Let's talk about some upsides and downsides of hip thrust, because as always, we get these thumbnails to catch you guys in here and these catchy titles and this controversial start, but as always, we want to measure even keel logical analysis. And every single bad thing has good things associated with it, or almost any way. And every single good thing, almost every single good thing, has some bad thing. So let's actually talk about the upsides first of hip thrusts, because they do have upsides. First, hip thrusts are direct isolation exercises, direct isolation exercise for the glutes. And they're just not that many direct isolation exercises for the glutes. Sumo squats and deadlifts, lunges of various kinds, step ups, et cetera. They're all quad and add-octur and glute and some lower back and some other stuff. So it's nice to have hip thrusts around to just check that box of like, bro, just glutes, just glutes. It's cool. It's a good thing, right? If you have like dips are really effective for triceps, close grip, benches are really effective, it's still nice to have some fucking cable push downs, because it's just triceps. There's something to that. It's a good tool to have them a tool box. Point number two, upside from glute thrusts is some people get really good results from them. People have done a bunch of different stuff and you so many of these stories, if you know who Brett Contreras is, he has tons of these stories to tell and their real stories, real people who like did all kinds of stuff, did lunge and squatted to the moon, nothing really happen with their glutes. They got some games with a learn-pressant. They started adding in hip thrusts and magic happened at least over several weeks and months. They got notably bigger glutes. So for some people, hip thrusts absolutely work great. And lastly, a big upside is that hip thrusts have an ability to help you develop a really good mind muscle connection because of that peak contraction. I'm having sex in that air by the way, underneath the table. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Anyway, I'm going to stop because it's a rule about the sort of thing you guys probably don't want to see something that looks like this makes sex noises. In any case, that peak contraction, I'm doing it right now again, and that lowering on the way down controlling your third glutes, it really lets you feel your glutes. Because lunges, squats, and deadlift and all the other great exercise for the glutes, you're like moving around and it's hard, but sometimes it's really tough to actually feel your glutes. And some people have an issue where they can't really connect with their glutes that well. And with hip thrusts, when they learn to connect with their glutes using hip thrusts, because it's a great exercise to teach that connection, they may be able to take that connection and apply it to other exercises, which are biomchanically and anatomically and physiologically, better, cause them more muscle growth, more abosely and hip thrusts, and then benefit more in those exercises because if essentially they'll learn skill of connecting to the glutes, that they got from hip thrusts. So those are at least three good things about hip thrusts. But there are two things about hip thrusts that are not great. One of them is neck, neck, neck, neck, neck. The other one is kind of the death now that really is the core of what I'm going to say in this video. First downside, hip thrusts are painfully annoying to set up. You may be lucky that your gym has a machine for hip thrusts to one of those hip thrusts slide set up things, even still it could be annoying. If you're doing hip thrusts with the old barbell and the pad and the bench behind you, sometimes you have to use so much weight because the glutes are real strong in that position. Or even if you don't use a ton of weight, you've got to slap the plates on, you've got to slap more of it and you've got to warm up, you've got to roll the bar off, you've got to roll the bar back on. When your if the set is done and you've done hip thrusts with five sets of ten with four or five, you're like, oh god, Danny, I got to drag four plates off this thing. It's like a deadlift. It's so fucking annoying. You can take the weights, put them on, take them off. Ugh, it's a thing. That's a downside for sure. But it's not the biggest one. The biggest one is that the hip thrusts accentuates the load on the glutes at the very top in their peak contracted state when you're hip thrusting through and then as you lower, biomechanically there's less and less and less exponentially less load placed on the glutes. Such that at the very bottom of the hip thrust where you're basically producing almost no force, that bottom stretch is actually the most muscle growth promoting point of any movement. So if you have the most load at the bottom stretch, you're growing a ton of muscle. If you have the same roughly amount of load at the bottom stretch, you're growing, oh, very decent amount of muscle. If you have the lowest load of the movement at the bottom, the movement is now inferior for muscle growth compared to the other two. So for example, if you were doing skull crushers at the very top of the skull crusher, this is easy because the vector relation to gravity is super tiny and thus you could have a skull crush like a trillion pounds from here to here, but you only need then oh, you're skull crushing 65. So this is the easy part, the lockout super easy with skull crushers. The biomechanics are such that the vector is the most forceful right here at the bottom where you're triceps in the most stretch. So the skull crusher biomechanically, that's a gnarly exercise. It's that first exercise where the bottom stretch is also the mechanically most difficult part. That makes the skull crusher a fucking great exercise. Then you have a situation where you have another exercise that is maybe in the middle range of the hardest, a bicep curl, easy down here, easy up here in the middle. It's really hard. Not the worst thing in the world, not the best. A great exercise, but ideally it would be hardest at the bottom, easiest at the top. And then you have the hip thrust, which at the bottom is essentially imperceptibly difficult, precisely where you want to be the hardest. And at the top it's the hardest. So if you want to actually go through a four-end your motion and get that T contraction, which is where all the other benefits of the hip thrust occur. The glutes engage, get the mind muscle connection. It's directly isolation of the glutes. That hip thrust all the way through at the top, you have to use such a little amount of weight at the top. The bottom is even less challenging. And there's not really a amount of weight you can use that makes the bottom challenging anyway. It would be like a gargantuan amount of weight because the leverages are so in your favor that you essentially, there's almost no way to take a hip thrust with a normal conventional load and challenge it at the bottom stretch. And that's a problem. And it is evident that when you do hip thrust, you may be able to do five or six or seven or eight sets of hip thrusts and get a little bit twinge of soreness, especially if you've done them before. But you do two sets of front foot elevated lunges, which stretch your glute like crazy at the bottom. Because the highest, you would get sore for five days in your glutes. Guys, this is not just by accident. This means you are growing more from any one given set of lunges versus hip thrust. Now, there is a way to solve that problem. You just do more hip thrusts. Ten sets of hip thrusts to every three sets of lunges. You'll get the same hypertrophy from one and the other. But fuck me, let's say I'm exaggerating. Call it six sets for every hip thrust versus three sets for every lung. Call it four sets of hip thrusts for three sets of every lung. Lunges are super easy to set up. And almost every case, compared to hip thrusts, you're already losing big time on opportunity cost. You have to ask yourself the question when you're picking a glute exercise of like, okay, do I want to do lunges, which I can do less of total sets and the set up is easier, and the glute stimulus is bigger. Or do I want to do hip thrusts where it's annoying set up? It's going to take me more time. I got to, the exercise isn't even as effective, and I got to do more sets to compensate. I know, is the hip thrusts are starting to look pretty bad, right? Let me tell you guys about the RP hypertrophy app. With over 28 preset programs already in the app, you can choose to make your own. You could modify an existing program, or you could just run the programs exactly as they were written by eight personal. This app programs everything for you. The exercises weights sets reps frequency, the whole thing. After every single workout, every single week, the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now, you're pretty interested in the app, download the RP hypertrophy app today. So the research on how much the stretch load, the loaded stretch matters is starting to pile up now to be like, it matters. And exercises that really stretch out and load like a super deep push-up or a cambered of our bench press or dumbbell press are just straight up superior for hypertrophy on a set preset, equated basis. Then exercises that don't cause that stretch. Now of course, you could do more sets, but that's more fatigue, that's more time. It looks like hip thrusts just are overrated as the first go-to-blood exercise because compared to lunges because compared to sumo deficit that lifts and sumo squats, etc. I'm a few other glute exercises. They just suffer from that big force curve problem. So here's my take. Yes, definitely try hip thrust, glute bridges, same thing as far as I can tell. But if the results are underwhelming, do not be shocked. Try lunges, walking lunges, barbells, dumbbells, reverse lunge, lunges, and especially front foot elevated lunges on a Smith machine where your front foot is like two or three or four inches above the ground, your backfoot's on the ground because that front glute, the one that's being stretched, that front foot's glute, that's the one that's being stimulated. If you elevate your foot and still come down with the other leg to where your knee touches the ground gently, you're going to stretch the living dog shit out of that glute that you're hitting, switch legs after a bit of rest, hit it again. That is such a great exercise. It should almost always be first in line before hip thrusts if you're really serious about hypertrophy in your glutes. Now, lastly, in the future, maybe not to distant future, we'll have some machines that work on electric motors. And then you can adjust the force curve as you see fit for those machines. If you get some kind of bar across your hips and there's two cables to electric motors, you'll be able to adjust it, such that at the very top there's a very little force applied by the electric motors. But as you glute bridge and hip thrust back down, the force increases radically, such that you still get a crazy stretch at the bottom, like holy shit. And then as you push up, it gets easier and easier. If we can get the hip thrust motion to be a bigger tension at the bottom in a smaller tension at the top, the amdude, that's going to make hip thrust really, really awesome exercise because first of all, electric motors, you don't have to power weights on the bar, second of all, quick setup. So it's not as annoying and third of all, the force curve is going to match and it's an isolation exercise and it's great for my muscle connection because at the top, the load is very minimal. You really get to crunch your glutes and really feel them out and then all the way down, they stretch like crazy. Now, that's going to be an amazing exercise. But with free weights, so far, hip thrusts in 2023, I think they're been overrated. Folks, that's all I have for today. See you next time.

0.5 micrograms per day. That's what consumer reports use is. They're cut off and it showed that some powders were as high as almost 8 micrograms per serving, which is like almost what 16 times higher. So where does that take them? Red, you probably shouldn't even have one of these protein shakes a day. That's crazy. You would think, do not click away yet because we need ad revenue. No, no, sorry, I'm not supposed to say that part of a lot because there is way more to the story. Yeah, more than meets the eye, see? Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strengthen. It is there too much lead in your protein powder and in your protein shakes. Tonight, news at 11. Tenanton, tenanton, tenanton, Scott, we'll you do the honors of putting some like that on me? Alex Willough. Who the hell is Alex? He's some poor guy that's forced to look at your street. Alex, I love you, man, do your best. All right, apparently lead in protein shakes is killing us. Let's begin to what is going on. Consumer reports ran lab analysis of 23, I think, protein, powders and shakes. Sometimes mixed together, I'm kidding. They found more than two thirds of these exceeded their own, though will soon realize it's about their own level of concern, amount in the lead per serving. News outlets, the usual ones, they're just doing their job, putting out news that's delicious and people will click on the Washington Post, people magazine CBS, they picked it up and ran with it, bold headlines the whole situation and I'm sure you've seen it. And earlier to kind of set this up, the clean label project published a study saying around 47% or roughly half of protein products tested exceeded at least one heavy metal threshold, but do not click away yet because we need ad revenue. No, sorry, I'm not supposed to say that are allowed because there is way more to the story. Yeah, more than meets the eye, see? Yeah, say. So the question is on which standards is it too high because there's not one universal set of standards. So what I say is too much lead and protein powder, it's according to who. And it turns out the one consumer reports is using is California's Proposition 65, safe harbor for lead as it concerns reproductive toxicity. And that cutoff is at 0.5 micrograms per day, half a microgram per day. Remember that 0.5 will come back to it. That's what consumer reports uses. They're cut off and it showed that some powders were as high as almost eight micrograms per serving, which is like almost what 16 times higher. That's crazy. You would think. Now the FDA is much more generous. The FDA capsits top level at 8.8 micrograms per day, which those proteins still are under, but if you think about it, all the other stuff you eat through the day also has lead in it will get to that in just a bit. And so you think, oh my god, like this one thing is almost all of my lead per day better drink more of it to get more lead. It's got wouldn't that be the, you know, those 50s for fake 50s ads for like better living through chemistry? Well, she was more a little make me strong and help me fight the Soviet Union and space. So maybe lead is good for you. Well, it's not, but you know, 50s kids sure likes his daily dose of lead. I trust had no business is more than my own family. It's got anything of any one talent. It's seeing pro corporate pro Western, pro science, 1950s kid, flare. Very niche. Isn't it? But, but, but, but so wholesome in a dystopian way. Here's the deal. Food drug administration, it's basically 8.8 is the cut off. However, for women of child bearing age, it was some ladies, not literal children, though, but we can practice that. And for children, it's so that the sort of 8.8 is for women of child bearing age. Everyone else is even higher. For children, it's 2.2 micrograms per day, who weigh less. Is a children need less lead apparently or can have less lead, which makes sense. That is total diet limit. So already roughly 7 grams from one protein shake, seems concerning. We'll get back to that in a bit. And USP, United States, Pharmacopias, more voluntary institution, their cap is 10 micrograms, really close to the FDA limit. So the California Prop 65 is 0.5, and the other 2 are roughly 10. Whoa, is that a huge difference. Now, we have to ask ourselves the question of what is the context for this? And the best way to do context is to analyze the lead in typical foods. Because you can think, oh my god, protein patterns are poisoning us, but let's hold on a second, how much lead do regular foods have? And it's not zero. Let me give you a brief, like I have a few of these here, several point range to really start to paint a picture. And this is where the story starts to look wacky. And let the traditional news media coverage did quite get the whole picture. Cinnamon, Scott Simmons, healthy right, white women buy it. It's a thing you buy. Yeah, that's awesome. Gen Sang and style. Exactly. A teaspoon of cinnamon, which is common ingredients in many foods has about 2.6 micrograms of lead, which means that's already five times higher than the Prop 65 threshold. So if you happen to be a person that has cinnamon, and you really think the Prop 65 value is a objective and rational and makes sense, it doesn't. We'll talk more about later. Why it really doesn't buy many orders of magnitude. Then you had better never eat cinnamon yet. But it gets worse, it gets potato chips. They're not that healthy for you. They have 3.6 micrograms. So remember, FDA roughly, FDA, USP cut-offs around 10, right? And then the 0.5 is that that California Prop 65. So we're 3.6 on that scale way higher than Prop 65. You could have written the identical article, Scott, the identical article about protein, and simply replaced cinnamon or replaced with potato chips. You would have the identical article, but it gets worse, Scott. You ain't ready for this shit. Next we have proteins, the worst offenders of which are around 7, but most of them are substantially lower. So really, most proteins are less, less than cinnamon and potato chips. But some two of them were much higher. Next up, sunflower seeds. Sunflower seeds are very healthy. 30 gram handful of sunflower seeds, which is typically around a serving, has around 10 micrograms of lead, which is if my math is correct, 20 times the California Prop 65 minimum safe dose, maximum safe dose, my apologies. Okay, no more sunflower seeds. Scott, you could have made an article that was even more soullacious about sunflower seeds. Dude, I've eaten so many sunflower seeds in little league. Good news, bad news. We're going to die real soon. Here's where the good news sweet release. You're a bad person and it's good that you're going to die soon. The sweet release of the death. And maybe, all right, here's the kicker guys. And I wasn't ready for the shit when I looked into it and I double checked. Ross spinach, like the healthiest food ever, right? Has in a 100 gram serving, 22 micrograms of lead, which is more than two times higher than the FDA limit for women of reproductive age. So how many of the folks that are now avoiding lead-based highly processed protein drinks as of that article or that news media coverage want to give up in spinach, you guys. How many of them are going to give up spinach? spinach is not super unique. A ton of the other green leafy vegetables you find at every Whole Foods have a shit load of lead according to this wacky California Prop 65 standard and the very, very baked and super super minimizing safe standards of the FDA and the USB. So in short, under Prop 65's incredibly strict number, many normal foods say a ton of normal foods, especially spices, seeds and leafy greens, which are like the three out of six main ingredients sold at Whole Foods easily eclipse it, which gives us a problem because it was for ready to give up protein shakes a ton of people watching like, oh yeah, I knew protein was on healthy and processed. What's the processing of spinach? It's unprocessed, literally, is just leads to much lead. Now, so I continued into this deep dive and I was going to how much lead are we allowed to have? What's like the maximum safe dose and it turns out there's no maximum safe dose, but there are cut-offs where it starts to be realistically problematic for you. So the FDA has roughly 10 micrograms for women every productive age that makes sense. Prop 65 is 0.5 which isn't saying USB has 10, but that gets us to a place where we might be able to have of the worst offender shakes. One shake a day and have barely any lead left over because we just learn that all the other foods you eat also have lead in them. This means that these shakes are like just total non-starters, which is a really, really, really bad deal. It's kind of scary and you're like, well, shit, we're not allowed to have protein shakes anymore, especially RDD shakes, ready to drink shakes, who is clearly way too much lead. Now, fuel was one of the brands and they're arguing back and saying actually the methods for consumer reports over estimate and their own internal testing showed around two micrograms per serving not around six. Yeah, I mean, they might be right about that, but I'll tell you why it's probably immaterial altogether. Prop 65, Bakes in a crazy margin. Because the normal margins baked in for around 10 micrograms of lead per day for USB standards are 10 times lower than the amount that would start at population levels to show any evidence of symptoms of lead exposure. So there's the maximum amount of lead above which we know you're probably going to start to get in trouble. There's one tenth of that and that's around 10 micrograms. And then 120 of that is the California Prop 65 number. So that's like I don't know 500 times or something less 200 times less than any reasonable cutoff would make it seem. So where does that take us? Right now we're in a place where it's like look if the FDA level of one tenth, the safety exposure is real than like men. You probably shouldn't even have one of these protein shakes today. Maybe on the ones that are more like two or three, you can have a few shakes and be okay. And for children and pregnant people that's probably still true, however, there is a big mistake going on here. And that big core mistake is that it's possible to get zero lead exposure. Zero lead is impossible in our current environment. Soil, dust, water, always contribute. If you breathe in any amount of air, there's probably at least one uranium molecule floating in there. Probably a lot more than that. So the regulatory frameworks accept that risk and manage it. They're not trying to get perfect. And toxicity is about dose over time, not a single small hit. It's about chronic exposure to too much lead. The California 65 Prop 65 lead, amount of 0.5 micrograms per day is an out of thin air, non-sensically low standard, that I would say in a normal diet cheese, even in a highly modified diet is impossible to meet because you can forget about spinach and seeds and spices in almost all leafy greens. Scott, you understand that diet? How many of the people that are health paranoid that looked into that have never looked into the fact that the leafy greens are corn, quote, killing them way faster than the protein shakes. If it's a non-starter, if you told those people that, maybe you're watching this and you're one of those people, no offense will stop. You just be like, is that really happening? So what's the real scoop? I got something for you that I piece together. It's going to give you a huge relief. Scoop, Scott, get it, scoop. Hey, it's a protein scoop with a 100% lead. Scott, we should be capitalizing on this moment. Other people tell you, you're not going to survive the amount of lead in our protein shakes. Another company is only put at 0.8 micrograms of lead, but we did 100% lead. Scott, there's a five gallon jug, but it's titanium reinforced, because you can't, if you lifted the plastic jug, the lead would just fall out the bottom. How is your set lead lead lead? Yeah, Amazon can't deliver it. It has to be like a special delivery. Like, you're not allowed to take any bridges or tunnels on the way over because it's toxic and shit. Now we're talking. Do you want to get heat? You're not. Fellows, it's real simple question. Everyone knows the biggest people in the world, eight lead. Alex and her, Bromley, who's a great channel to follow, actually has a couple of awesome videos about getting 70s big. Scott, remember when we had real men in the 70s? Very, very, very chest. Yes, that benched a ton and had huge chests and all that stuff and arms and pair and hairy arms. Scott, what were lead levels like in the 70s? Like a trotaceous, like you ate lead pipes for breakfast. How come those guys were 70s big? You can draw your own conclusion with that. An a serious note. Here's the deal. The roughly 10 microgram figure the USP and FDA use is already 10 times below the population blood lead averages that the centers for disease control would label as time to act and bring those down. So if a person ate five times that figure of about 10 micrograms per day, basically it's 8.8. So 44 micrograms per day, they'd still be only half of the way up to the estimated intake linked with subtle long-term effects in the most sensitive populations. But they're only half of that way. For most healthy adults with no exposure to crazy sources like lead plumbing, occupational dust, no, they're not eating lead paint or something like that. That level of five times an igrolic, what's that one? 100 times the California Proposition 65 level. If you multiply that by 100, 100, you're still almost certainly not going to be exposed to any measurable change in blood lead that affects cognitive performance, fertility or kidney function. In toxicology speak, you'd be well-inside the no observable adverse effect level. And again, to you, the toxicologists are, I was going to make an analogy that probably won't make you, but considering ending it all during one of these weeks because these poor people work hard, day and night, they're tried in formus and we see one stupid news article and we lose our mind. You'd probably need to stay above 80 to 100 micrograms per day for months, months before blood-level concentrations creep into the mildly concerning zone. Again, that's normal adults, children and pregnant people of lower threshold. Scott, is this channel a war of targeting children and pregnant people? Children and the people that make children, rather? So here's the thing, maybe chill on your eighth of the day vegan RTD protein shake. Also, Scott, how hilariously ironic is it that the vegan ones scored the poorest? I don't know, my God, it's a perfect idea. Because most vegans are very proud of their health as well as they should be, but it's kind of like, oh man, if it was the meat shakes, oh, Scott, another product, meat shakes. Don't you feel like you can steal that from us, you guys. We will sue you into the ground if you make the meat shake before us. Just pulverize raw meat. Blended into water. The scientists are like, this has a shelf life of three hours. We're like, my fast shipping it is. Oh, no, okay, drive the meat into a powder. Yeah, it's like jerky. Yeah, yeah, yeah, the pulverized. The consistency is toothpaste. Delicious. Someone's a dude, what are you drinking between sets? Give me, brother. All right, all right. So maybe chill on your eighth vegan RTD protein shake until your favorite brand comes back with solid safety data. Maybe, right? But otherwise, you can have multiple shakes and powders per day, and there nothing is going to happen to you almost certainly. There is no actual news here. Just a combination, the two things, good old state of California, having waste strip just standards because I think is thinking some political things somehow over there. People are just very scared for no reason. And news media loves a good scare story because me and you and I will click on it for them. And again, I'm trying to get extra legs because I'm trying to get 70s big. We're a U.M. Anyways, it turns out that in the 1970s, the real reason people got big was not extra led exposure. Scott, isn't that sad? I still don't believe it. I don't believe it. There is another thing they used to do in the 70s, a ton that got them all 70s big. It was a combination of the RP diet coach app and the RP hypertrophy app, which you can download links in the description of this video. Some people will say there were most of the things as apps in the 70s, but do you really trust people that are against you in hypertrophy? And don't why you didn't have an awesome diet plan that adjusts to your own goals? I wouldn't trust those people anyway folks go out there, get you some lead and we'll see you next time.

The big mistake that so many people make in these natter-you're not debates especially in the comments is in assuming that likely not natural is the same thing as definitely not natural and it's absolutely not. If someone is lean and has a fat free mass index of 25 or over, it's more likely there on gear than not fact. But people stumble when they say that someone of 25 plus FFMI is definitely not nanny, definitely not nanny. Because elite genetics people absolutely exist, don't say definitely. You can say probably. And that's probably true, but definitely is such a huge difference. A real clown show moment if you go back for it. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. Let's talk about two things. First, how big can you get drug free and second, what's the recent crazy fitness industry controversy that's not so recent because we got on it a little bit late. But we wanted to see how things pan out. What's panning out, Dr. Mike? I'm glad you asked so. Little while back, Scott, what a few months ago now for time traveling back and forth. We'll try to get this out sooner. Yeah, weeks, the months, from back in the day, Mr. Jeff Nippard released a video, which was incredible. And it was titled How to Look and Hands Without Steroids. What he did in the video is he profiled a few folks that have way more muscle and average, having credible muscle shape are very lean, but testing direct blood work shows that they are at least at the time of filming, drug free, very likely to be drug free. Highly recommended, incredible video you're going to learn a ton as always with Jeff Nippard's videos. And then the controversy. Why controversy a lot of the comments folks in Jeff's first video? Got really upset. Mostly because of their incredulity about the claim that he's actually being nanny. In other words, the people that Jeff Nippard said were drug free in the video, especially the sort of three standout athletes. A lot of folks just couldn't buy it. They weren't going to believe it. And one of the main things that people cited in their comments was that the fat free mass index, roughly how much lean body mass you have divided by your height or per your unit height, was very high for some of these folks. And they're referencing a piece of research, the Cory paper from 1995 that shows that after a 25 on this FFMI fat free mass index scale, anything at 25 or above, as interpreted through this paper is likely to be using drugs. And some people interpret this as a research back nanny max, like anything over 25 of a time and year on drugs is how folks interpret that. And Jeff made a reply to these comments and made another video a controversy reply video. And that video is also amazing. I highly recommend it. Let's talk about a part of that video and the 25 FFMI nanny max. What I have for you right over here next to me right now is a graph directly taken from Jeff's response video. And the video is called addressing the controversy. It's a phenomenal video. Go watch it ASAP because you get a way way deeper understanding, watching that whole video. But it, this graph appears at roughly the 626 minute and second mark. And this graph is incredibly, incredibly illustrative and it's going to help you understand the nanny max situation way better than if you just intellectualized. This graph is a top-down view of all of the fat free mass indices, how much muscle per height, every single participant had in both groups of the 1995 Cory paper. On the left side are people who said they weren't using steroids and on the right side are people who were using steroids. And as you can see, these are basically bell curves as viewed from the top-down. Sort of. The steroid users you can see on the right hand side is definitely bell curve shaped. Just one dude there who has like somewhere under 20 fat free mass index and one dude who has over 31 fat free mass index a couple people clustered close most people in the steroid group had around a 25 plus or minus fat free mass index. And so that shape, big bulge in the middle, eh, Scott, big bulge. And the tails winnewing out towards the ends is what you expect the large sample sizes to generate when a distribution is or a sample sizes normally distributed, which means the classic bell curve. That's what we expect from standard biological measurements on any complex trait including muscle mass when you are not drug free. But look at the graph for non-users for the people that were ostensibly drug free. There's something strange about it. The bottom of the graph looks fine. Most of the people are clustered around oh something like, you know, 21 or so fat free mass index and just a few people down below. But what the is going on at 25? Do you guys notice that part in the graph and maybe we can circle it or something with a red circle that part in the graph is missing. It cuts off completely. That is not a normally shaped distribution, which begs a question of, is this really the description of how nanny max works? Is it that as soon as human beings get up to 25, fat free mass index? It is somehow physiologically impossible to go above it and only with steroids can you do so. I don't think that's the case. We have incredibly good reason to believe that natural muscle size is very normally distributed. We've seen this every other piece of data we've collected for natural muscle size with way higher samples. We know that complex biological variables are almost always normally distributed especially in huge populations. And so we can infer with very high confidence that fat free mass indices of over 25 or first simply not represented in a sample by chance. I mean, there's a few dozen folks and when you have a few dozen folks you're trying to infer what the population distribution looks like of millions of folks. A few dozen just by random chance the distribution can look not really normally distributed. But that's by random chance. That doesn't mean anything super magical is going on. For example, if you were trying to find how fast humans can run and you know that the world champion runs it, let's say 27 miles an hour and you just want to a random high school. But it turned out is randomly like a tech and science high school. The fastest person of the high school may be running 19 miles an hour or something. You know, like, oh my god, there's no way a human could run 27 but it turns out you missed all the variance because you went to the wrong place by random chance. Hey, you got 150 people in your sample but it didn't paint the whole picture. So that's a huge concern. Off of one, not so huge sample sized study, we absolutely can't go and say there's no way anyone can be above 25 of them from my. That's a big deal. And here's another thing. Another concern for why we should be skeptical the 25 is the FFMI Max. It has been my personal experience and maybe you guys in the comments can show me if that's been your experience or not. And Scott, I wonder what you think about this too. What I have seen decades into this sport, into bodybuilding and fitness industry as this, a large fraction of the most talented people in muscle growth, the people with the best muscle growth natural genetics end up getting so good at bodybuilding and powerlifting at physique sport that a huge fraction of them transition into not nanny before they reach their nanny prime. Scott, have you ever seen that before? A lot of the people with really good genetics after about 5 or 10 years of training they're like, well, I'm like going to win stuff so they take steroids because that's 10 times more popular than nanny. Like, they see the writing on the wall. They see the writing on the wall. He's no natural, I FBB. There is no natural, Mr. Olympia. There's, you know, I NBF and WBF and all these great federations have their pro worlds but that's like several hundred people go. They don't go to Vegas and fill out tens of thousands of seats. It's just not a thing. And so for that reason, and if you look back at the graphs you can see like, well, then the nanny people, they're like really normally distributed but there's this nanny cutoff of 25. My suspicion is part of the reason that is just poor sampling because of just a low sample number. But the other part is a lot of those people who are steroid users were just pretty recently in the non-user camp and when they got up to 25ish FFMI, which is a really jacked for nanny, not the maximum but really jacked. They were like, well, time to go to the next level and use drugs. That's what I did. That's what a ton of my friends did. That's what a lot of people in the studio. It doesn't explain everything, but it does tell us that like, yeah, there might not be anything crazy magical happening at 25 FFMI. Other than right around there is when most people love the genetics to get to 25 go, well, shit, if I got this big drug free, I might as well go for the moon and get on drugs do all that other crazy stuff. So those two things together tell me that almost certainly over 25 FFMI is possible, drug free. In fact, that's not just a speculation because we have direct research on sumo wrestlers and on football players, American football players that have multiple damn near confirmed natties. And I mean, many, many, many, many examples of people who are almost certainly drug free that have fat free mass indices of over 25. You can look up this research anytime. Go to chatGBT or go to Gemini or any AI and be like, hey, is it true that some sumo's and football players have been spotted in a literature to have FFMI's over 25? It's going to cite the actual studies for you. You can click through them and see it for yourself. So the fact that a 25 of my is possible drug free is actually itself literature confirmed. It doesn't just require the inference we did. But with inference, plus literature, we can be like, almost 100% sure, very close that people do exist with 25 plus fat free mass indices, completely drug free. And here's the real kicker. People got really upset about this, but the fact is that a lot of the folks in Jeff's videos had a 25 or plus FMI drug free that does not mean they were secretly on drugs. In fact, they were probably drug free. But here's where Scott were around the controversy. The second controversy breaks up. One of the gentleman profile has an incredible physique. His name is Hussein Fatthatt. I'm trying to do my Arabic pronunciation, which is really bastardized Russian because I'm actually Russian. So Hussein Fatthatt is an outstanding example of a wonderful physique. And makes one hell of a shocker because he does not look drug free in the conventional understanding. I've trained with him. I've trained him. Jared and I trained him. It's on video. Maybe we'll throw up a clip here. And he's out of this world in real life. Just unreal jack, shoulders and arms and all that cool stuff. Hussein was in the video. It was confirmed. Nadi with blood testing and said he was drug free. Said he's only been training for about three years. All cool, very unlikely, but possible, which he'll get to in a bit. After the video was released, Hussein came out. And said he was actually a fake Nadi. If you're still following, that means he said no, I was on drugs and I wasn't actually Nadi. And so the comment section and the controversy video after that turned against the beautiful Elven face of Mr. Jeff Nipperd in his utter perfection. Scott is Jeff Nipperd really handsome or really really handsome? Really really really really really. Really handsome. Oh my god, Jeffrey, how could you? And Jeff took a lot of heat because understandably people were like, dude, you're clowning yourself. You're promoting these people who you're saying, Nadi, but the guy, you admitted that he was on drugs. Until who same came out with a post shortly, thereafter, literally the day after that controversy and revealed he was just joking about being a fake Nadi. And was in fact now work with me here folks. The world's first fake fake Nadi. Scott, you want to step out and smoke a cigarette about all us really quick until we collect our minds about it. Very confused. And so to the confusion point, most people by the time who saying said just kidding, I actually am drug free. I was just playing with y'all off. They'll play too much. Most people in either tuned out by then were just a very confused or very upset. What's my take? I've been around a while. I've been around tons of drug people. I've been around drug free people with exceptional genetics and everything in between. My bet if I had money, I wouldn't bet a lot. Hey, the Judaism will let me bet any money. What do you guys? Crazy? My bets are the stock of the stock market. I think Hussein is likely drug free. Yes, I do. Yes, I actually think that. By the way, if Hussein wasn't drug free, he's documented doing a drug tested show like months ago and crediting Mr. Greg DeSat with all of the success of coaching. I don't suspect he would just come out and say, I cheated at this show. That would be crazy. Hussein's a good guy. I don't think he's going to do that. And so here's the really interesting part that helps me make my point about who's saying really being drug free. And this is a very probabilistic. I think there's an over 50% chance likely that who's saying is drug free. But I'm not saying it's exceedingly likely or very likely or almost certain. It's not 97 to 100%. It's like in that 60 to 70% range in my view. What's a good evidence point to support that? Well, sure. It's not who's saying is look because that boy looked like he took every goddamn drug and then took some more. Who's saying's fat free mass index is just under 23. Scott, isn't that funny that people are like just throwing a huge fit about him being on drugs and he doesn't even make the maddy cut off? Yeah, do this ways around it, bro. Yeah, man, just muscle shape bro. Because you know, muscle shapes somehow is changed by steroids. It's not you guys. How come my muscle shape sucks? I've been on steroids half my life at this point. So that part's not even controversial who seems not even jacked enough to make the nanny not nanny cut off. What he does have and I've seen him in real life is absolutely redontuous arm and delt genetics. And here's where racism's going to come in. You guys, Arabs are gods at body building. Half of Lebanon is a FBB pro. It's got Africa. Where is Big Rami from? Was it like the was it the Polynesia? Was he from Sweden? Big Big Rami? Who's from Egypt? Right? And if you think about it, Big Rami stepped on stage at three, 15. What do you guys think he was drug free if he had a nanny max he maxed out? I legit amitly think Big Rami could have stepped on stage at 230 pounds drug free lean. We only have to explain like 85 pounds of muscle gain with steroids. Scott, you've been around drugs a bit. Is it dependable to gain 85 pounds of muscle from a steroids? I mean that's crazy. We're pretending at this wife. I want to tell you that's possible. It's highly unlikely. So they get minimum. Big Rami could have been 230 on stage, which would have been like the best nanny pro bodybuilder of all time. Which is the good one of the best pro bodybuilder's period of course that makes sense. Ronnie Coleman was 250 or 220 pounds on stage. Damned here verified drug free. So is Kai Green. And these guys, oh, well, there's no way they were drug free. After they started drugs, they all gained like 50 or 60 pounds of stage weight. So what kind of drugs are they doing before then? They just start to real magic magic super drugs. The shit doesn't add up. So my best bet is that who's saying just has unreal, godlike aerobit genetics and worked as ass off for a few years, trained the living shit out of especially his arms and delts, which are his way stand-out body parts, which proves another point of my head on my stupid egotistical high horse. Scott, what are we always saying this channel? Big delts and arms are the answer to every single question in life. Oh, yes. I give you who say in fat hot. You want to look like who's saying and the number one reason you want to look like who's saying is because people won't believe you that you're drug free. Which is the biggest possible. Scott, give me a better compliment about my jackness than to not believe I could possibly be nanny. Go. No, that's it. That's the one. So I think that's what's going on. Was his fake fake nanny idea a good one? Guys, you know, sometimes shit that seems cool just doesn't hit that well, that people get really confused in real life and you thought I was going to be a cool meme, but it kind of backfires. I mean, like look at my whole life. Could I be wrong about who's saying? Yes. Is it possible he's the world's first fake fake Scott way for it? Fake nanny? Hey. Yes, it is possible. But to resolve that, we turn to logic. Let's learn a few things. The big difference here, guys, and this is where I want to make a big intellectual point is the difference between likelihood and certainty. There is a ocean between those things. Here's what I mean. The big mistake that so many people make in these nanny are not debates especially in the comments is in assuming that likely not natural is the same thing as definitely not natural and it's absolutely not. If someone is lean and has a fat free mass index of 25 or over, it's more likely there on gear than not knowing nothing else about them. Fact, more likely, not a ton more likely, but like 64 to more like. But people stumble when they say that someone of 25 plus FFMI is definitely not nanny, definitely not nanny because likely means functionally 51% or above. Anywhere, let's even say, let's be charitable, say 60% is likely. Certainly is 100%. And just because we're being charitable and statistically kind of nuanced was a 99% plus. You guys in the distance between 60 and 90 is really big. If you score a 60 on your last exam, your professor is going to have a chat with you about maybe changing careers. If you scored a 99% on your last exam, your professor is going to have a chat with you about an internship that he has for sure for you next month to start working in his lab. It's night and day difference. Both are on the other end of unlikely, but they're very, very different conceptual ideas. Let me give you a really egregious example that really might hit home. It's a bit out there, but as an analogy, it works. The probability, then an American soldier in the 1960s and 70s on his way to the Vietnam War would be killed and combat is qualified in a CIA probability scale as exceedingly unlikely or very unlikely. Extremely unlikely. About 2% chance. There were something like 60,000 killed an action in Vietnam and literally multiple millions of people served in the conflict. 2% chance of death in Vietnam. It's true to say it is a very unlikely for any soldier going in Vietnam, but they were going to die. True. But imagine telling someone on their way to Vietnam, that they definitely won't die. Scott, how would that land? But there's caskets of people coming back on the other planes. Like, ah, that ain't you. That's insanity. In much the same way, because elite genetics people absolutely exist, there's a good chance you're going to really clown show yourself. If you say that person's definitely not nanny, don't say definitely. You can say probably. And that's probably true, but definitely is such a huge difference. It just a real clown show moment if you go that far. Especially when the not nanny, quote unquote person who's saying, it has an FFMI of just under 23, you're really just talking about exotic muscle shape than you guys. Now, the fact that he's trained for three years absolutely buttresses the idea that on knowing nothing, probabilities about him three years, looking like that, I would bet knowing nothing about him that he is not drug, that he's not drug free, that he definitely used. Definitely could God-see. I didn't myself. Scott, don't cut that out. That's the problem. I have an in my own language to do this. Very likely that I'm nothing knowing nothing about him and I do know stuff about him. So this is not my actual opinion that yeah, it looks like he's on drugs to me. However, the under 23 thing makes that like, okay, well, once I got the measurement, I'm like, okay, well, so he thought as Jack as I thought, it's just crazy visual appeal plus getting three years to go there. However, that three years doesn't go as far as you guys might think and as far as I think because amazing genetics are real. Scott, you've been around people with really amazing muscle genetics, yeah? Of course. Three years to get to who's saying size, is that impossible to you or just like pretty impressive? Man, it's really on the edge. It's hard to imagine. It's hard to imagine, but with really good genetics people, hard to imagine stairs you in the face. And if we took who's saying to Iceland, it would look like he never lifted weights. Yeah. And then I mean, you see someone like, you know, Paul canoe at 16, who like, maybe never lifted it and was like, jacked already. And you know, like, I got three years this guy could be insane. Paul canoe, current IFBB physique pro, winning pro, he's the man, friend of the channel. We've had videos of him before. Paul canoe had a full six pack when he was 10 years old. Paul canoe didn't take drugs for most of his career and was so jacked, you would think for 100% certainty is on drugs and he wasn't because Paul canoe's West African and has God like genetics is just better. And that is a thing that we have to contend with. How rare are people like Paul canoe? One in 10,000? But like that's why you guys know people on social media is because they're rare, who say didn't get famous for not being jacked. You know what I'm trying to say? And if you have a super hard time believing in amazing genetics, this is a following as a joke guys all love and respect, but you might just not have very good genetics. And it's kind of hard to figure out how that could be possible. But it's real. Like if you guys ever see me do athletic things, you're like, this guy is basically immobile. He sucks. But a lot of drug-free people can do Olympic caliber high jumps and completely insane shit. And there's no way I'm going to be like, well, they've got to take drugs for that. I can't do that. Well, I suck. You know? And so at the end of the day, amazing genetics are rare, but not impossible. So let's answer the actual question that might have direct consequences for you. How big can you get as a nanny? Because a lot of people will see videos like this, and they'll be like, okay, well, so if we say nanny, that means there's hope for me now. Hold on a second. How can you know how big you can get nanny? There are two good answers to this. The first answer is Mellow Henselman's, who's an amazing YouTube followed up again with, has a website where he has a nanny max calculator. It's evidence-based. Go try it. You type in a couple of your measurements, your age, etc. And it gives you your likelihood of achieving a certain nanny max. Your maximum potential as a drug free athlete if you train for years and years and years. The good news about this calculator is that it is way better than random chance. So go use it. It's awesome. The bad news about this calculator is that it's nowhere close to certain, not even remotely. And so the second answer I said I had two answers. One is go check out Mellow's nanny max calculator. The second is a deeper answer. And it's this. You can't tell what your nanny max is going to be, unless you go ham on training and diet and recovery and take them seriously for five to ten years. Because five years will tell you a lot, but some people gain slow and steady and make excellent gains between years, five and 10, whereas others, Peter route around five and then make very slow gains thereafter. Yeah, can't be sure unless you go five to ten years. That's how you find out if you've got what a taste, which is kind of curious because, um, she, that's a whole lot of finding out. And so what I would say is if you want to be in the gym and want to get more jacked, that's what's going to keep you lifting, just do that. And you will inevitably find out how far you can go to nanny. And after ten years or so, if you realize that you've gone really far and you want to take drugs, you've gone really far and you don't want to take drugs or you haven't gone very far and you want to take drugs. You haven't gone very far, but you don't want to take drugs. Any one of those quartile answers is totally fine. But pretending you know what your nanny max is going to be or looking at other people and with certainty, concluding their drug for your not is just not a good idea because finding out is only possible if you do the thing. 100%. So what do we learn today as a quick review? Number one, nanny's can get as big demonstrably in the literature as 28 or more fat-free mass index. That's crazy, but not so crazy to put this in perspective at 5 foot 6, which is my height. I'm 4 foot 11, you guys, I got to inflate the numbers. That's a hundred 95 pounds at 10% body fat. And just to put this in perspective during my last cut, I reached 6% body fat at about 220 pounds. So I'm not nanny almost certainly and we'll actually certainly because I've declared that I'm not nanny and that's not controversial. But 195 pounds of 10% body fat at 5, 6 is really, really impressive. 28, FFMI. But it's not crazy. What do you think? And 195 at 10% body fat? Like a clean six packet, 195 at my height. That's impressive, right? As a natural. That would be really impressive. But not like you look at that person and you're like one, like it's not big ramy, right? Yes. Correct. You're not like you'd have to be mentally ill to think this guy wasn't on drugs. Right? So it's ultra ultra impressive, but still possible. It's one in 10,000. But there's a lot of people on Earth you guys and so it will occur. If someone is over point number two, so that's point number one. 28 plus is possible. Number two, if someone is over 25, FFMI index, they might be on gear, 50, 50 chance, probably a little better than 50, 50. They're just over the line of probably on gear. Over 27.5 FFMI is very likely on gear, like 85% to 95% probability. Over 30 FFMI and they are exceedingly likely to be on gear, 97% plus probability. But still not for sure. Point number three, you can get your biggest and you can only find out how big that is by trying. And that's part of the fun. Menos calculator can put some can hem in your estimates. But the actual truth is going to be revealed only by trying it out. And my personal favorite, I think the deepest thing about this video and I'll leave it here is number four. The fourth conclusion we can make is that the RP hypertrophy, it can help get you jack. No matter if you're drug free or not. The only person it's never worked for is Scott the video guy. Very sad story. Why don't I just insult you there at the end Scott? We were friends not as in that untrue. I'm not going to say anything about that. But no one's ever seen Scott in real life so good luck figuring that one out. Guys link in the description for the app. Hopefully you guys found this instructive. Get in the comments. You know what? Rage. Let's go. See you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Assounds Periodization. Drop everything you're doing right now. It's time to talk about Dropsets. Clever, huh? I made it all up myself. Dropsets. Where do they belong in a program? What are they? Why would they use them? Why would they not use them? Let's get into it. So Dropsets. Usually do an exercise. Usually for like 10 to 20 reps. Whatever I've ever closed to fairly, you want to get. Resting. No time at all. You immediately decrease the load by something like between 10 and 30%. As soon as you've decreased the load, let's say you're using 100 pounds. You go to 90 pounds. You do another set with no rest, minimal rest. And whatever number of reps you get, you reduce the load again, 10 to 30%. And you go. So you drop, drop, drop, drop, drop. How many drops? That's up to you. We'll talk about what sort of limiting factors on that are. But it's you do heavier load, drop and then drop and then drop. The load gets lighter and the rest is minimal. Super straightforward. What are the upsides? Some muscles in some people seem to respond really well to higher reps and lots of metabolite burn. Kind of like if you get the burn a lot. It's a really really great response. The muscle gets the burn a lot. The muscle gets a huge pump in association with high reps in the burn. It gets soreness later and it seems to grow well. They're in entire time versus some muscles. They don't get a burn a lot or if they get a burn it just kind of feels like they're exhausted. Four of the muscles that respond best to high reps and metabolites. I get the biggest burns. Drop sets are everything. Maybe not everything. They work really well. Like if you have biceps that accumulate a ton of lactose, someone's like drop sets. You're like, I'm gonna hurt, but it's really really good. And another great thing. Drop sets save a lot of time. A benefit I didn't put on here, but I do want to mention is if you want to go fucking ham and just let your inner level four sane. You're super sane for out to play. But you don't want to get your ass snapped in half by doing a five Rm in the squat. Drop sets especially when you turn up the juice after the first drop are a great way to just spell your fucking guts out and really try hard. Without really high injury risk because your fatigue already and the weight is precipitously dropping. Look, if you tear your bicep doing 40 pounds in the cable and then for you, that shit was just gonna happen. But it's a great way that if you really want to work if your muscles are really responsive to metabolites and that ton of the burn. And if you really want to just like emotionally let the fucking demons go, drop sets are a great place for them doing people stay like, oh man, I need fucking ham to up for this heavy ass way. Uh huh, that's nice. Get ham to up for a drop set of leg press and all of a sudden half the guys talking and like, Uh, it's, it's not for me. Yeah, no shit. This is fucking hard. So downsides because unfortunately drop sets are not for all occasions. If the exercise you're doing doesn't check the four boxes of rest times, your cardio assilabening factor, you're not feeling a strong, your synergist muscles aren't ready yet or even the local muscle isn't ready yet as soon as you go, then down sets can be, uh, sort of oh sorry, down downsides. The downsides of drop sets is that they're not very ideal. So for example, if you say, okay, I'm going to do a drop set of bicep curls. You do a set as soon as you select, you know, 100 pounds you go to 90, it's your bicep's limiting the movement again. So as you go down, it's your biceps. It's your biceps being stimulated at entire time because no other systems are really getting the way. Sweet, good choice. What if you try drop sets unlike the barbell squad? The first half of the fuck with that even work, you need like at least two other people to drop the weight off for you. It can be done. Let's say you start squatting. Let's say you're super big and strong. You start squatting with five plates. Get five plates for a set of 10. They take the weight off. Then instruction is to go as soon as possible. Okay. You rack the weight. They take it off. You don't even move from the rack. You just stay there. Stand there. Remember, you just did a pretty close to maximum set. You can barely fucking stand. Now you're going to squat four plates from sorry what like two reps. And then you rack it. And instead of squatting three plates, you collapse and start vomiting blood. This is not going to work. So you drop sets are almost always ideal for smaller muscle groups, more isolated muscle groups. And that way the muscle group can be the limit factor instead of the rest of your system. Second downside. Second way that these may be an ideal for all circumstances is if you do the money free weights, you can do them. Like you can run the rack. Latter races 20s, Latter races 50s, Latter races 10s. That works if you have your own gym or if you're there in all the hours. If it's a busy commercial gym, like grandma's picking up the 50s, you're not just like, hey grandma, look out of my face. I'm still using these. Like it's got a fucking rude. Latter guys to do a lot of drop sets with free weights. You know, getting in the way of everyone a lot. And if you do it with a barbell, that's even kind of worse. Like you bother other people less. But let's fucking like up right row 65 pounds. Put it down. Take the clips off. Put eight five off. Now it's 60 put the clips back on and then go. But gee, where's that whole thing took you 45 seconds? That's not really a drop set anymore. That's just more like a downset with an appropriate amount of rest. It's not checking the boxes that we want. What you might want to do better for those situations is like something like my reps. You're 65 for upright rows. You rest through to five seconds. You do 65 again, except the reps drop. Drop sets are almost exactly like my reps, except instead of waiting three to five seconds. You wait close to zero seconds. You just reduce the load. If load reduction is difficult thing to do, pretty much that main drop sets aren't going to happen. At least efficiently, at least effectively. What is the ideal thing to use drops sets on? Cable select-rise machines. If you can do this on a cable hamstring curls, lay extensions, some lap hold-outs. You can totally do this anytime. It's just taking a pin and putting it back in is the thing. Drop sets are at least potentially a good idea. I'm less than limited by some other factors. Last critique and sort of thing to be wary of a drop sets is the question is like, how many drops sets do you do? And is there such a thing as too many? There are too many on two grounds. One, you could just be doing so much volume that it turns into junk volume. Like, maybe it just turns into too much. Like if you do 10 drops sets for bicep curls, you're trying to buy some so hard. They're not going to be healed from the next session. It's fucking stupid. You can really get carried away because like there's never a time when you just stop. You can just keep making the weight lighter. Another big problem. A lot of people will stop weight before that because it's fucking hard. Another problem is if you go light enough, the fraction of faster twitch fibers that actually get hypertrophy almost at all involved become so low because they're so fatigued now. And the weight is so light, they just don't turn on. So the first couple sets, you're tired. Like it really slows down and you feel your muscles contracting. That's if you're doing 70 60 at 50 on the curl. When you're doing 40 30 20, the 20 you might be like, and someone's like, come on, again, you're like, and it's like, okay, what would that help happen? How can you were able to like multiply your speed by factor of 10, you know, 10. You're right now, it hurt, but I just started trying a lot of seconds if you try hard or you can go way faster. How close to failure really are you? Well it turns out if you normally curl 100 for a set of 15 and you've dropped your set, you're way to 20 pounds, that's just a matter of imposing pain on yourself. Your muscles aren't anywhere close to the maximum ability to contract. So our rule of thumb here is where you start to drop set from. If you drop any further than about 50% of that initial load, you're probably doing fuck all. So drop sets can be taken too far. I would say look, if you're going to do a drop set from 100 and you go 90, 80, blah, blah, blah. If you go anywhere below like 50 or 60, those sets after or mostly junk volume, all of the drops that should be hard and should feel heavy. It should be very difficult to lift it up. But if you're kind of like, oh, this is painful, but I can do it really fast, then the whole workout is over. You're doing too much junk volume. Folks, if you learned stuff, hey you're welcome. If you want to learn more stuff, hit the subscribe button, see us for other videos. We've got all these other modality videos up and more to come. See you then.

Oh, it's so good. Ah, go, God. Rest, breathe. Ah, ah, you're a f**k. This sounds like sex. Ah! Hey, folks. Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pyrridsation. I'm here with Genegiri, AKA Muscle Mommy, AKA Wonder Woman Dunwright, AKA... What if Wonder Woman went super-same? She's M. Now, Gen is a goddess in a statue-esque, but one of her deepest, darkest secrets, her vulnerabilities, if I may say, is that she thinks her quads just need to be a lot bigger. And she just didn't know where to look for big quads. And then she was like, are p, what is that? She made the mistake of her life again, because you've seen her train quads last year when Hacks wats a stuff this time. She's in for glutes and Hams and quads. We are going to do some dead lifting for glutes, special deadlift technique. One or two sets of stiff leg adults at the end, they hit the Hams. That's easy. Then leg presses until something happens. And then probably some lunges, because why not Gen? How are you feeling yourself today? I am great. Excellent. We'll see. I was going to say we're going to break you down, but you never do lose your little charm, do you? No. Well, that's the case, folks. Let's get into it. All right, folks. First exercise is a glute deadlift. It means it's a deficit deadlift. It looks like a stiff leg a deadlift starting out. Once the Hams get to a stretch, want to take them out of the equation by bending our knees. Typically for a stiff leg a deadlift, that would be really stupid. Because it takes the Hams out of the equation by no longer stretching them under load, by allowing them to ease to come forward. Taking the tension off the Hams, but here we want that. Because if your Hams can no longer do the work, your quads are fairly in a position to exert much leverage. Your hips are hinged to the max. Because of the deficit, guess what muscle is the prime mover? It's absolutely glutes. Will you get an erector pump? Spinal erector pump? Absolutely. Laptomp? Yes. This is a great 70% of your body exercise, but it really does target the glutes. If you want glutes and you want to do deadlift, this is one of your best choices. Again, it's going to do a couple sets of 8 to 12. We're going to do one set of stiff leg a deadlift at the end because this does hit your Hams strings just one set of SLD. It should cook them completely to golden brown perfection. And then we're on two quads. Let's get it done. Slow. Yes. Up. Good. Good. Two more. Slow. Good. One more. Slow. Good. You got more? Slow is that for another? Slow. And. Crop. Good. Good. Feeling your lower back a little bit? Good. That's a deadlift. Three kinds of guys in this world. Type one. Denying that they love the muscle mommy. But secretly they at home jacking that dick thinking about muscle mommy. Type two are guys that just don't do it. That's just not their thing. No big deal. Type three is guys that embrace the shit. Caves. You know what I'm saying? And you're saying you're as a mismedium. Bitches single. So fellas get in the hands. You know what I'm saying? About our DM's got damn it. We don't need that shit. Perfuck in the hands. Slow. That was a best laugh at a whole fucking set. Two more. Two more good ones. Slow. Good. Slow. Up. As if another. Brilliant. Brilliant. Get used to that shit. Alright. Stifflegged deadlift. Regular. Just like a set of eight nice and tough. Same que is last time except when you break your knees. Push your knees even further. Cool. You're ready? You need a break. You're still breathing heavy. Four factor rest. You need to rest more. Relax. Relax. How do we figure out how much rest Jen needs? We have a little problem with Jen. She's a fucking warrior princess. So she's kind of like ready all the time. Even though she's got like a axe gash through her body. She's like, I'm going to go. Let me back in. We're like Jesus Christ. So the thing is we want to check a couple boxes before we do our next set. One box is, are you still breathing heavy? Is your cardio thus going to limit you and your next set? We're not here to do cardio, but he just stimulate the muscles. So if you're breathing super fucking heavy, don't go yet. Wait until your breathing is more back to normal. The other thing is, do you feel strong and ready? If you are fucking in touch with the reality of what you're feeling, that answer is not always yes to that. After a super hard set of delifts, someone's like you feel strong. You're like, I'm fucking, no, I felt like I'm going to die. But a minute or two later, you're like, alright, feel my slack. Then you're going to go. Is the target muscle itself ready to do at least another five reps. If your target muscle is still cramping and squeezing and burning, relax, take a break. And the thing is, synergists, if your lower back is still killing you, lay down, lean on something until your lower back is good and then you're ready to go. And we check those four boxes. Then we're good to go. And when Jen is ready, she's not breathing heavy. She feels her swag. The muscles are healed and recovered. Then we go again. Typically, that takes about two or three minutes. And then, let's take a longer, if you're really strong, really big, or my case really fat. I said, I had two things to say. That was thing one. Here's thing two, you guys ready? Let's make this the deepest one, yet of all of them. Super slow. Knees back. Deeper. Deeper. Pause. Wait. Wait. Up. And then, as if another. Super slow. Slow it. Tell me you felt your hamstrings. You felt your hamstrings a little bit. Yeah. Good. A lot of it. Okay. All right. All right. Like best. I don't have shoes. I do have that foot. Excellent. Couple rules for the leg press. Number one is you want to push through your whole foot. Don't come up on your toes. Don't just push through your heels. All foot. Mass them in muscle activation. Maximum stability. Maximum safety. Maximum growth. Another rule is to make sure your hips are down square in that pad. And then they're not coming up off the pad. It's okay if they rotate a little bit. Totally fine. If your lower back doesn't hurt or feel super awkward, you're totally good. Don't go down the rabbit hole of me. I'm like, buckling, it's going to kill me. You're not that fragile. Nobody is. And over time, you're biting a few special. Also, if you're treating your back properly with deadlift stuff like it of good mornings, you're not that fragile. You are way good enough to get a little bit of rotation or fight. But if your butt is coming super far off the ship, if your lower back is invisibly around me, not just buckling like the whole back is going like that. And if it feels painful or weird, you probably have to take your foot. And adjust them down. Jenna's super flexible. So she's going to be able to do this without weightlifting shoes. Your boy here's not that lucky. I use weightlifting shoes and the versalift inside my shoes to get that extra leverage. The pads help me. That's what I need. Those are the main rules of leg press. Today, we are going to do slow eccentric. Not the only way to do it, but a fun option. And full one second positive body. Every rep. That means Jenna isn't going to need to use a lot of weight. But she's going to pray to God that you have to throw the fuck out of here. Because it's going to hurt. Lastly, another two rules of leg pressing. And these are non-negotiable. Three rules. One scream of fuckload. Just all the fucking time. Two, use your hands to help yourself on every single rep. Leg press is not leg exercises. It's a full body exercise. And three, grab about your leg press PRs with shitty technique to everybody. You know, call up grandma. Tell the hey grandma what he up. You said, well, I have a shut up. Listen to my leg press PR. Grandma, I was going to say to be weird. But that's not nice. Let's get into some fucking leg press. Good. Slow. Rasp for a second. Two more in your done. Begin now. When a bum rushed a muscle, go. Slow. Slow. Ah, ah, ah, ah. One more down, down, down, down, slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Pause. Press. Rack. Rack. Beautiful. Oh my god. Oh. Amazing. Amazing. Oh, yeah. Oh. She'll feel it in the closet a little bit. Yeah. Ah. Of almost all the leg presses I've ever used, the arsenal leg press is essentially one of the best if not the best. But like every other leg press except 50 times worse than those leg press cases at this one, the leg presses typically do not have the kind of shape of back pad that you would want to keep your lower back from rounding while getting full ROM in the quads. So what we do is we do a modifier. Flex Lewis's gym here, Dragons layer, have this thing laying around. I bought two of these actually just a few days ago and they we brought them over to the gym. A permanent gift from Mr. Flex Lewis. Point. You're bringing stuff to me fucking gym. Oh, fucking eyes out. That's literally what he told me when I tried to give him a gift. Get a fucking shite away from me. Fucking purple. You're fucking 30. I was like, I'm trying to help in any case. He was like, it's cool. We put one down here and then we put one down here and what it does is it crops your hips up so if they're not slimy, I'll over the place of generating a ton of unwanted movement in the lower back. Keeps it on the quads, keeps it safe, keeps it effective, keeps it at mega ROM. She probably doesn't need the help but with it, she's going to get psychotic range of motion. Bad news for her. Great news for us. Enjoy. Up. Press. I'm not here to do opera. I wrote one more. One more. Get your shit together. Take a little break. Take a little break. Take a little break and we'll do two more and you're done for this set. Okay. Begin. Slow. All you have to do is try your fucking best. Deep. Up. One more. Down. Slow. I want fucking pain, Jen. We're not leaving before pay. Slow. Pause. Up. Go. Yeah. I need an half-tell. Brax. Good job. Good job. Wow. Sorry, Dragons. Oh, man. What you apologize for? I was loud. So, Jim. You did say that was one of the rules. One of the rules got me wrong. No, I just got a call grandma. Holy fuck, that was horrible. That was worse. That was worse than the hacksquad. That was. Okay, I can last that. I got it. Fuck. Up. Slow. Oh, shit. That's so good. Go, god damn it. Rest breathe. You have to hold. It sounds like sex. Okay. Two. Two. Go. Push. One more. Rest. Don't go anywhere. Don't go anywhere. Don't go anywhere. You wait. I'm taking some weight off. I'm taking some weight off. Let's finish off strong. All I need is five more reps. And you're fucking good. Go. Slow. Go. Slow. Go. Slow. Slow. Slow. Up. Down. Down. And last one. Down. Don't you fucking touch your legs. Slow. Slow. Now it's going to sit this one out. I'm gonna pause. Power. Rack. Oh. Oh. Oh. Huh. Doing that. She's speaking in time. Okay. I'm gonna try to stand up. I physically cannot make my body move right now. We got one. Drink your water. I can't do it. Don't like. Don't touch. Hey guys. I want to take a minute to tell you about our team full-rumb membership. You get six programs every six weeks. So depending on how many days we do train, what muscle room expense you would like to do. If you want to specialize, we're generalized. We haven't for you any time that you do. If you need any sort of diet, we have five different diets. We have a muscle gain diet. We have a main and stied a fatlostide and two different mini-cut options. A three week and a six week. If you want to ask your question, one way is to type it into the form and someone including myself and I feed pro-Jeron feathered, we'll get back to you. There are also weekly lives. You submit your questions to be answered. And myself and Jerrod do weekly life to get everyone's questions. Answer in that form every single time. If you have a question about your squat technique, about how to program your next diet or training, anything that you need at all. We've got you covered. So come join us today. And I'll see you guys there. We'll see you guys there. Why don't you take those knee things off? No, they make my legs a good. Good. You don't need weight trust me. Just keep lunging. Good. Go. Keep going. Don't let that burn. Leave. Keep the burn in there. Slower. Yes. Oh. Must make it to the end. But slow ones only slow. Good. Slow. Good. Slow. Good. Keep your chest up. Upper body upright. Good. Up. Slow. Up. And one more. Good. Now face the camera. Turn around. Turn face the camera. I want you to descend slowly into a squat with your chest up. Do it. Ah. descend. Oh my god. Deep. Oh my god. That's okay. Take go wider. I didn't say squat up. Why does dance? Why does dance toes out? Squat down into a squat and stay there. And I'll tell you when to come up. Pause. Wait right there. Focus. Focus. Jen. Keep your chest up. Six. Five. Four. Three. Two. One. Up. Ah. Ah. You want it? You want it? You want it? That's the workout. That's the workout. Jen. Yeah. You are a wild animal. If people want to see more of you, where can they find you? Instagram. TikTok. I want to talk now. I don't want something to tell you. Get the fuck out. That's more of the me, girl. Um, and are you two? So Jennifer Gary on YouTube. Jenna Gary 787, which is my date of birth. I'm going to be 46 this year. Bullshit. Yeah. You ain't number 25 or the old. In. In spirit. In spirit. Yes. And the same thing to tip out. Excellent. Excellent. We'll probably throw those in the description. Folks. Go follow Jen. And. Always a pleasure. You did unbelievable work. Good luck recovering from that. Oh. And we'll see you guys next time. Thank you. Thank you.

For that person, forcing like 20 plus sets per week and stopping, starting having to deal with very often and so on and so forth. You could argue that that could lead to inferior gains versus somebody being very consistent and doing less. Folks, me, my name is Dr. Mike. You know, I don't remember what I'm a doctor. But this is Dr. Pack. Dr. Pack, what is your full given Greek name? It's Patrick Loss, under the Lacky Scorker, I guess. Patrick Loss, the lover of Achilles. Oh, damn. For the history and joyers, you have a PhD. You are Dr. Pack. A real PhD isn't. Oh, let's go back that up. What if I get sick? What kind of sick do I have to be for you to help me out? Sick, muscular. My man. Sick, bro. Yeah. Look at you, sick, bro. That's the kind of Dr. I think. Yeah, like I'm looking sick. Yeah. Cheers, a program. So you have a PhD in sports science? Amazing. And where did you get your doctoral degree? Dr. Earl DeGreece, dot com. That's a great web site, yes. I got it from Solent University in the UK, and you're not eating. Oh, my. I'm also British citizen. Really? Last time I checked, we're speaking English here. Rule Britania. Yes, exactly. One of your expert areas is on a very curious topic of the minimum effective dose for training, which means training at the boundaries of as little as you can to still see dependable growth. Yes. So that's a very important concept because some people really want to know I have some hours per week to train. It's not enough for me to make gains. Fuck it. I'm not even going to the gym, but it turns out it might not require a whole lot of training to see some really good games. Tell us a story about your researcher familiar to you with the research, and just generally kind of a bullet point list of like, what's on average the minimum effective dose sets and reps and blah blah per week frequency that you can like on with average genetics. If you're starting out expect to be like, okay, this is probably going to give some result anything below this is like, and he can above is like for sure. Yeah. So my PhD was specifically on the minimum effective dose for power lifters. So we did look at how strong. Yeah, to get strong. We did look at highly trained individuals. If I remember correctly, our intervention studies were the strongest studies out there as far as like participants. The participants were because a lot of times you eat the shit and you know, like these guys are posties they didn't mention shit, but these these were stacked motherfucker for the literature. Yeah, for you, you wouldn't lose your mind looking at somebody, you know, squatting for 40, but they were, they were, they were fast. That's fucking respect. Yeah, there were respect, respectable for sure. But obviously having to look at the, the totality of available evidence, I got familiar with the literature in general around the topic. And it's nice that you touched on it because I wanted to aside from looking at what the literature says as far as low volume training and gain scope. I wanted to also define what effective means, what meaningful gains mean. So we also interviewed a bunch of high level coaches and athletes to see what their definition of meaningful is because the participants are just having a lot of study. You were a participant in many of our interview studies. I'd like to thank you on camera and other participation things that were not on camera. Mostly that. So essentially to take a few steps back for somebody who is looking to make solid gains gains that will be meaningful gains that will matter. Obviously not optimal gains even as low as four to six sets per muscle group per week for hypertrophy and for strength as well. Is more than enough for them to actually see gains. So I can do two sets of dips close to failure. I'm Monday wide grip. I can do two sets of incline dumbbell presses for chest close to failure. I'm Thursday. And if I really haven't trained much and even if I've trained for a little while, I can see some kind of notable gains over the weeks and months of training from even that small amount. Yes. It may not be optimal, but you could be looking at 50 to 70% of your potential gains. Now, as the literature is evolving, that number may change. And we do expect it to potentially shift a bit lower than what we currently think. Yeah, because it keeps going down every time we test it. Like, it we haven't really found much of a floor yet. No, exactly. Which means just for the viewers, it means like scientists have to guess at what kind of low volume is the low volume of studies. So they compare normal volume to low volume to me. Ten sets a week to five sets. We've done that a few times and it's like five sets still grows muscles. So it makes you stronger. So that's a two sets of the next study per week is three. What is really the key to saying, okay, anything below this really just doesn't grow any muscle. Yeah, I mean, we know that even a single set for muscle group per week will still yield meaningful growth in beginners in beginners and in training individuals, at least from the strength from the strength data that we have. We went as low as a rep per week and always. Yeah, so like a single, a heavy single on the deadlift and based on the definition of meaningful by coaches and athletes. So I'm talking like top five par lifters in the world, regardless of sex and age and coaches that are coach multiple champions. That group that did just like a single a handful of times for the squad bench and deadlift. One single for the deadlift a few for a squad a few for bench. They had they still had like a let's say 30% chance of achieving meaningful games. So so some of them that wasn't off to at least peak them. It wasn't off to at least e-cout a little bit more. Yeah, for sure, but for for most of them then most of us have a single just once a week. Yeah, it will be enough for you to maintain your strength, but it's not going to it's probably not going to be magic. However, doing around six sets per week per lift for exercise had about a 99% chance of achieving games that were greater than what the coaches and athletes regard as meaningful. That's as far as strength as far as hypertrophy if we look at previous metanolidic data by Sean Philadelphia, we see and some of the interventions as well if we take them and look at the manipulation. I want to force that's maybe enough for you to achieve. Let's say 50% of your potential hypertrophy gains and then as you go up obviously you know you go into your five to like six to ten sets per month group per week and you get closer to the 80% of potential gains. And then obviously 10 to 20 sets for that extra 20% however as you noted there's more research coming out and it was a and you studied that came out lately showing that that ceiling may be higher than we thought. Yeah, which would again, you know push those numbers a bit lower, but at the same time the message here is like, look you have lives. Yeah, I'm sorry. Yeah, sorry, it doesn't have lives. That's nonsense. Grandma lets you lift only three times a week the rest of the time you spend the basement. Exactly. So the time that your grandmother allows you to go through your great basement or actually leave your basement and go to the YMCA exact local fitness center. That time if you, you know, if you just have those few days thinking that oh, I'm not going to be able to make optimal gains is not the way to go because you the person that tries to do what's optimal. For like let's say let's take to two examples person A person B person A is super busy has a family and it's really trying to force like an optimal. Volume load. Yeah, but they're not meant. Yeah, they're unable to keep up with that. So they start a work up to a bunch of sets then they feel super tired. They feel disappointed that they can't completely work out the wife's like, did you just not find me attractive anymore? I think that I would have sex with you. I just my quads. The answer there is yes and then divorce if you've signed a prena if not then you've got a completely legal advice. Yes, there you go. Dr. Pack real doctor real lawyer. Operated by the way, you heard it here first just kidding. Keep going. They've been so busy as far as I can. So yeah, for that person forcing like 20 plus sets per week and stopping starting having to to deal with very often and so forth. You could argue that that could lead to inferior gains versus somebody being very consistent and doing less still. We're not talking about a single set of week. We're still talking about close to ten sets per month per week. Ten sets per hour. So yeah, close to that for high-purchasing. Sure. Because I don't think that that's a lot. Like people make a big deal out of ten sets to work out a week where you do five sets exactly. That's ridiculous. But the number ten specifically is thrown around as relatively high volume in the literature at least. It's yes. It's sometimes moderate sometimes higher volume. Yes. But yeah, the person that can keep it keep that up for a long period of time. You could argue that they could see better gains in the share. Sure. One thing that we get as a question quite often is when people are concerned that the muscle they built lets you know. So they built, let's say, training five days a week. You know, they're entering a life situation where they're only going to be able to train three days a week for some number of months. We get a lot of very concerned people asking essentially like, how much muscle can I expect to lose going from training five days a week. So three days a week, well, I've said before, I'm wondering, now that we have the expert on if this is true, is it's much more likely that you are going to continue to gain albeit a little bit slower. To lose muscle, you have to go below your maintenance volume, which might be like two to four sets per muscle group per week. And good God, you know, probably get that in one daily session or one weekly session. So when people have to regress in their frequency from five to four or five to three or six to four, are you concerned about them stopping all of their gains or even losing muscle or you able to confidently assess from the literature in your experience that like, well, actually, you'll probably still make gains just maybe a little slower on average with what's the reality. Exactly exactly what you said I would even say that even if you're doing like, let's say you were doing 20 sets and then whatever something tragic happens and you can only do one to four sets for muscle group per week. I'd say that if those sets are really intense, or very closer to a momentary failure, tragedy often fuels intensity. Exactly. This is for you grandma. Oh God, this is so nice here. I can see you. Oh, you're the most grandma spotter. It's a good idea. She's around still. She's like, you think you did zero R. I. Or like something like the rafter shake. She's like, oh, pussy. You're like, what the fuck grandma? All right, I'll do it tomorrow. But even like as low as one to four sets per muscle group per week, let's say you're definitely maintaining. You're definitely maintaining a nod maybe like a sliding increase. Okay, so to interpret this for someone not intelligent like myself, the simple words. Maintenance is much easier than most people think. Very, very much so. Okay. Minimum effective dose for both strength and hypertrophy is somewhere around just to be very general for the average person. There's differences. Of course, five sets per muscle group per week. Somewhere in that area, a lot of people can start to see dependable games. Yes. So maintenance may be two to four. Dependable games starting just north of that. And then we have another person who will be talking in another video about the top ends. I don't you get too carried away talking about MRV yet. I said it at MRV. It's my concept. Yes. It's yours. And I have trademark minimum effective dose and for a cheap subscription of 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99 99. You can also train with low volume. But I get your sealable proven on it. So I feel confident about it. Yes, exactly. But yeah, as you said, thank your worst games possible. What a great like title to a program. Make the slowest games you can. Dr. Pack approved tired of training a lot. Don't worry. You can still make some games. I love it. He's selling the fuck out of it. We did have though like we do have data like long term data as as long as seven years and we're talking like 15,000 participants from a gym chain in the Netherlands. They live in a gym and they're not allowed to leave for seven years. That's how research works. That's how the Netherlands works. They have a terrible country. Everyone knows that. The Netherlands is really bad about civil rights and resources. So there was there is actually still a gym chain that their thing is 20 minutes of training per week. And they give us access to their data. This is all like more premium training. So it's for your like average business man or like whatever above average business man above average business and joy. And business woman again. This is 20 or anything. Careful. Women is a concept. We don't fully understand quite yet. Yeah, it's the art business. The art be channel. People are logging out now. They're like, oh no. They said the WR for the one and a half ladies that follow the channel. This is for you. Anyways. So 20 minutes per week of resistance training. And we had data for over 15,000 individuals over 70 years. For the first one or two years. Strength went up like 40 to 60% of boom baseline. Again, obviously you're not talking about Ronnie Coleman here. Or, you know, he's just not Dutch. So it makes sense. Sure. But they were still seeing games after one to two years in terms of strength. The first few was lost. And that strength plateaued after one or two years. But the trend was remained upward. And at the same time because they were like 40 something years old. You could argue that, you know, because age is sort of battling against their games. The fact that they didn't lose strength was good. But we have data on people being able to make games and maintain them with as low as Literally as said per muscle group per week. And that's like they were doing like like press some chest press and luck pool done. It's not like they were really, really like targeting each muscle group with a lot of attention. Yeah, sure. So things are looking good. Just make sure you train and you get something. And if you're trying to maintain, if you're like, if you're having, if you're going through a very rough period of your life, even going to the gym a couple of times per week, yeah, you may not be making a bunch of gains. But hey, you're not losing games. Yes. One recommendation I would like to lay here and please correct me if I'm wrong. But there are, and I've talked about this on the channel before, but I think it always, or at least in this case, it's a good idea to repeat. Your exercise selection can greatly enhance how much efficiency you get out of the gym, or it comes up by call STR stimulus to time ratio. What I like to do is basically a version of compound lifting, where you pick the compound lift that recruits a lot of the musculature. So for example, if you do a wide grip bench, it's technically compound lift. But really your triceps don't get a big stimulus, and your chest gets a huge. But if you choose lifts more like close grip bench, more like underhand pull down, then all of a sudden you're doing compound lifts, but you're check boxing the chest and the triceps. So you can do some close grip benching, some underhand pull ups, some upright rows, some shoulder presses, and right there like, that's kind of your whole upper body. Exactly. At least maintain. Yep. And possibly even grown in some cases, even if you're really jack-or-ready, you do some kind of squatting or lunging movement, you do some kind of hip hinge for the lower body, two movements, you're fucking done. And like if you do that, work out which lasts 40 minutes, twice a week, you will indefinitely remain roughly your same size, but for the ravages of aging. And before someone preempts this in the questions, you will shrink down a little bit and lose a couple kilos in the first few weeks of doing that, mostly because the intracellular swelling of your muscles goes down when they're exposed to less damage. You're not going to look like your like, like, like, packs looking in a shirt, peck the fuck out of his mind, his pecks have pecks. You're not going to look like that, but when you go back to your four days a week of training with normal volumes, I'm telling you guys, within one week, you're going to be like, holy shit. How did I gain back that much muscle? You didn't lose any muscle. You just gained a little bit of inflammatory response back. Totally agree. And that's a very nice message. Essentially this video is a no excuses video, sort of covered up as the same video. But in reality, it looks like if you're somebody who cares about building muscle and being strong, it is very easy to really like, main day. And then if you just throw in a couple of sets on top of that, then you could be looking on meaningful gains. Yes. Like in our studies, the group that was doing just the singles again, like they had some, you know, the 30% chance of making meaningful gain. Less than that. I had a much lower than 30% chance when I was single of making meaningful sexual interactions. But look at you now. Having sex with me after this. Promise, but we'll see if you deliver. We haven't only fans for that. Yeah. The Greek versus Russian. It's not a fight. No, it's orthodox brotherhood. Cooperative. Yes. Well, actually, not orthodox brotherhood. The orthodox Christian religion will not be a proving of what we do behind closed doors. Exactly. The group that did just the singles, when you threw in an additional two sets. So we're not talking about a low of time commitment. They went from like, it wasn't 30% with 13% chance of making meaningful gain. 13. Yeah. To 99. Oh, wow. Yeah. So like you're in the gym. And you got five minutes to spare and you just did your lot pulled down like with a different grip. You do a couple of bicep curls. You do a couple of pushups, a couple of sets of pushups. And then you could be looking at even like it makes a difference at those low volumes that that extra said may make a big difference. So things are looking good guys. That's a great. A couple of oddball questions for you before we kick you off. Greece. You're from Greece. Good place. The best place in the world. We invented everything. But yeah, great place for holiday. Presumably excellent. The 300 movie documentary or slight exaggeration. When I first watched, I was like, okay. So they just wanted the Cropless Museum and just a video of like, that's it. Yeah. I literally my grandfather. Yeah. That was that's literally Greece. Like when I when I was born, they threw me into the ditch. What's that? Oh, the Hago gear. Whatever. Yeah. We can tell you to go fuck off. Yeah. Yeah. That's three months old. Yeah. How jacked was the wolf that you personally killed in your manhood exercise? She's pretty jack. He's Austrian Belgian Belgian wolf. Sorry right here in the room with us. Oh, that's right. My love. My love. I didn't kill him though. He killed each other and by making love. So we killed a school. Yeah. We killed two wolves inside you. I had one wolf inside me. But there was a lot of him inside you. A lot of him. Too much for some points in time. Just cut myself off. Where are people follow you? They can follow me on Instagram. Dr. DR double underscore PHA. Yeah. I mean, I've been messaging the the RPA and the DR dot PHA. And it's like two accounts. It was like zero or like 50 followers. And I give it up every few months. I mess it down. Like, please just let me have your account. Let me have it. Yeah. Yeah. So Instagram is the best place to find. Yeah. And all my links are there for reaching. We were publishing research and you are going to be a visiting professor. Visiting scholar. My word. And where is that? That's where you are a professor at. Lynn Cole even college in the Bronx in the Bronx. If you want to fuck with that, Bronx shit. Check them out. Dr. Milo is another person who's going to be there to check out. On any case, welcome to the United States. Enjoy our. Everything. Get a zero. Actually civilization right there. I cropped is was cool. But this is this is the type of the species that the people. Thank you. Thank you.

If you said, okay, I'm gonna miss four hours of sleep every night. And on raw andabolic machinery from testosterone, I'm gonna make up with it. You're talking about shooting 800 milligrams of testosterone per week, which pro body builders do and destroys their health and their sanity and everything else about them. And that's just to get back to normal. So when I say sleep is as powerful or more powerful than steroids, I mean every word of that, getting not enough sleep means you're on anti-steroids, you're on negative steroids. That's really, really bad. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength, let's talk about sleep and muscle gain, but not in esoteric terms, not in theoretical terms, but in practical terms of how much muscle gain opportunity you lose based on how many hours of sleep you are cutting out. This shit is gonna hit hard. Stay tuned, because the news is like really good. If you sleep pretty well and really, really bad, if you miss sleep, more than you think, potentially, worse than I thought, that's for God damn sure. Science first, how does enough sleep, seven to nine hours based on your preferences and how you feel turbo charge your muscle growth situation? In a few different ways, one, two, three, four, five ways at least. Here we go. First is, Pulse-A-Tile Growth Hormone Release. Something like 70% of your overall 24 hour growth hormone gets released in the first half of your nightly sleep. And if you miss that or screw it up or go to bed too late, it really screws you over with growth hormones secretion, then you secrete less. Growth hormone is politely lipolitic, so it burns fat like crazy. It stimulates IGF1. It causes more amino acid up, take more satellite cell proliferation and activation, and more M-Tore signaling, which means more muscle growth. You skip on growth hormone, mechanistically, it is not difficult to understand why you're gonna be growing a lot less muscle. We'll talk about how much less than just a bit. Another one is a testosterone reset. It turns out your plasma testosterone peaks during the last third of a normal night. Scott, that's when you wait, you still wake up with the boners you used to have. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I used to have them. Yeah, I don't know, though. They were huge, yes. And if you do an all-nighter, it looks like you can cut your testosterone secretion levels by about 25%. That's a lot. Lower testosterone means less capacity to turn the messaging of, hey, you should grow a muscle into actual muscle growth. It turns the antigen receptor on less, and it really just causes less muscle growth and less fatigue reduction and everything down the line. Speaking of fatigue, the lowest cortisol you typically have in your 24 hour cycle is between two and four in the morning when you're asleep. If you're not asleep, your cortisol doesn't get that low. And so if you miss sleep, not only during, but the day after your cortisol is substantially higher than it normally would be, high cortisol shifts protein balance into catabolic, from anabolic, bad news, and it also favors visceral fat storage, which means making your gut bigger. That is a really, really bad sign. We want none of this, we want cortisol nice and low, and under sleeping absolutely raises your cortisol. There is a nighttime is a really beneficial for direct myofibular, which means the actual stuff in your cell, then your muscle cells that makes the proteins contract and makes the muscles contract and gets you all jacked. That growth is often happening in the seven to nine hours while you are asleep. And if you miss sleep, you miss part of that window and the growth isn't as good. And so a lot of what we can say about training is really true to say that you're changing the day and a lot of your growth happens at night. You sleep less, you grow less. It really is very straightforward. Here's the thing, deep sleep also restores nervous system, activation ability, excitation ability, and generally proper function. So that if you don't get enough sleep, your nervous system is under prepared and then the next day your training quality is gonna be lower. Like what do you guys feel like you train when you're under sleep by three or four hours? It's just lower quality training. You can't submit as much mechanical tension. You can't submit as many metabolites. You have lower growth stimulus in that day afterwards, if you're even for one night missing sleep. So this is a big deal. Sleep is a huge, huge, huge deal to muscle growth. And let's talk about how too little sleep in numbers kind of reduces your growth down the size. So direct measurement of muscle protein synthesis, tends to flatline if you have one totally sleepless night. Your post-prandial, which means after you you know high protein meal the next day, they measure muscle protein synthesis. It is 18% lower than it normally otherwise would be, and that continues if you continue to get less sleep over time, it's cat-off substantially, just, nothing to do with when you slept. It's the whole day after. Every time you protein to grow, your muscle grows less than it would by something like 20%. If you miss a whole night of sleep or even, if you miss multiple nights of sleep in a row and get around four hours in sleeping time. So bad deal directly for growth. There's also a cat-a-bowl a hormone swing. Cortisol goes up by something like 20%. To stostor on down by like 25%. Your growth hormone is blunted as we talked about in a really big deal. And then chronic low sleep actually upregulates the genes in your muscle cells that tend to atrophy your muscles. Because you know, your muscles typically don't want to be like unmitigated massive. That was the case we went after training. They would just be like that. And so my genes like myosstatin actually have a higher expression when you lose a lot of sleep. And that means myosstatin blocks muscle growth. You actually get less muscle growth from that mechanism. So not only is muscle protein synthesis lower, but all of the other stuff that makes muscle protein synthesis high that day and the days after like satellite salvation proliferation, that takes a hit as well. And of course training quality takes a hit also. And so what I decided to do is I was like, okay, these are like big numbers or whatever. But let's say we had a plan. It's a real stupid plan. But it's gonna let us envision how bad these numbers really are. We're gonna say, if I miss sleep, I'm just gonna inject extra steroids to make up for it. Yeah, that's right, you heard me. I do this every day. I haven't, it's got a less of my slept. Years, right? I've never seen you sleep. Every time I get tired, I just shoot more steroids. JK, but if we were gonna shoot more testosterone, take extra supplemental testosterone. For every hour of sleep that we missed, how much testosterone based on how much muscle it grows, would we need to take for every night that we missed a certain amount of sleep? I ran the numbers here, let me tell you what I found. If you under sleep for an hour, and you want your muscle growth to go back up to baseline with shit loads of negative side effects, you can inject an extra 25 milligrams of testosterone, which is like microdostaritor, he no big deal. Okay, if you missed two hours of sleep, in order to get back what you would have otherwise lost for muscle growth stimulus, you need another 50 milligrams of testosterone. That's what testosterone clinics that specialize in very low testosterone roughly give per week to people. For the record, you need to shoot this the day after you lost that sleep. Holy shit, a week's worth of testosterone for only two hours of sleep loss in one night, by the way, you could imagine if you keep losing sleep night after right, how much gear is gonna offset them? Three hours, you need to shoot 90 milligrams of testosterone, which is getting into like very super TRT, very high level of testosterone secretion proxy. That's a lot. And here's the crazy shit, four hours of sleep lost. You have to shoot 115 milligrams. That's full, athlete TRT for one week in one day's worth of testosterone. If you scale that, if you said okay, I'm gonna miss four hours of sleep every night. And on raw andabolic machinery from testosterone, I'm gonna make up with it, you're talking about shooting 800 milligrams of testosterone per week, which pro body builders do and destroys their health and their sanity and everything else about them. And that's just to get back to normal. So when we say sleep loss, really hurts muscle gains. We're talking about sleep loss competing with pro bodybuilder andabolic dosages before you say anything. Dosages scale, sleep does not. So when I say sleep is as powerful or more powerful than steroids, I mean every, in word of that, until you get to seven to nine hours. But unfortunately, sleep is not super additive. If you sleep 12 hours or 14 hours, it's not the equivalent of being on trend. However, if you sleep a lot less than seven to nine hours, you have to make up for it with a crap load of steroids to get the same effect. That is a humongous deal. Here's the last real hammer on this nail. Replacing for testosterone, the anabolic effects of one whole night of no sleep, a full all nighter, Scott would all nighter mean to you. It means like you're an undergrad again, you're a conical studying for a test. There's that one bitch that's in your group that's kind of cute. She's wearing a little polo. She keeps giggling. Ha ha ha. Ha ha. You're getting funnier, at all, you're like cool and funny at the same time. Like it's getting to be like dos, and she's like, oh my god, like after this test, we should like make terrible decisions together. Like that's why people do all nighters. I think it's just to get pussy, but they're stupid for every other reason. And so if you say, okay, I'm gonna do an all nighter, that is the equivalent of 225 milligrams of injectable testosterone's worth of muscle growth potentiation. Yeah, can't do that every day, also if you didn't sleep for every day, you'd be in the whole lot of other trouble. You guys, that is the equivalent of massive weekly doses of gear, massive to replace your sleep on pure short-term anabolic drive. And so what does this mean? Obviously, it's a shit idea to try to take more steroids to compensate for your sleep. Because the steroids don't even compensate for the fat loss stuff, they don't compensate for the central nervous system stuff nearly as much as they do for muscle growth, and they don't compensate for the cortisol, and your overall health is gonna degrade and you're gonna go straight to shit. But even on the muscle growth stuff, the huge take-home message from this situation is that if you simply get enough sleep, seven to nine hours as needed for you, what you would have to do to get the muscle growth of that if you were to say, okay, but what if I miss some sleep, how much? How many steroids do I have to take for lack of a determined order to make up just an one day acute amount of muscle growth? The answer is a lot, a lot a lot. For an hour, it's not that big of a deal. Which is why if someone's like, oh, I only slept six or seven hours last night, I usually get a seven or eight. No big deal, fix it next night. But if you missed four hours of sleep, and you kind of do that a few times a week, because you're really bad about staying up to late, watching Netflix or whatever it is you're doing or talking to some girl on the phone, I'm like, we're like, so like, take a like, we're like, so alike. Like I can't believe all I talk to you is like an hour, like we just like everything we have, like, though, I can comment. Scott, what's the longest you've ever talked to a girl straight up one shot? 30 seconds. And that's long enough. Yeah. Well, also if the other things, like I had a digress. Basically, here's the deal. Sleep is your cheapest, healthiest, safest, freeest, most amazing, anabolic drug. If you're gonna take steroids, God bless you. I did. I'm not gonna be a hypocrite until you not to do it. If you're young, don't do it. If you're stupid, don't do it. If you're using a wrong-known, do-it-outside, a medical supervision, don't do it. And if you cheating at sports, don't do it and tell me about it. Cause I had nothing nice to say about that. If you're responsible adult, in a jurisdiction where steroids you'll either take and you're taking them with the guidance of a professional, then hey, great. But if you're gonna take gear, you might as well get enough sleep because you have to take way more gear to compensate for low sleep. And if you're not taking gear for natural, then you gotta realize that getting enough sleep, you're still natural, but you're making great gains. Getting not enough sleep means you're on anti-steroids, you're on negative steroids. That's really, really bad. Yeah, one ugly night, minimal fallout. Say, schedule a deal, that day, you can train hard with enough caffeine after a night of shit sleep. So if you know you're good for it, do it. Warm up longer, do higher rep ranges, lighter weights, maybe just stack more volume, do more machines, cause you know when you're disoriented and the stuff don't do crazy, super heavy, athletic shit. But then get lots of sleep tonight after, no negotiation. But if you're doing chronic sleep debt, you're just creating a such a difficult environment for your body to maintain leanness, and maintain health, to maintain preparedness, to train hard, and number one, to maintain its muscle size and sure, shit, grow any muscle. You know, once you have multiple nights a week or you're under sleeping by three or four hours, the conversation turns to how much muscle can you keep, versus how much muscle can you grow, beyond growing at that point in most cases. Don't take your caffeine too late, and have a routine where you go to bed by a certain time and wake up by a certain time to get awesome high quality sleep. That is a huge deal. So TLDR, yes, give the RP Diet Coach App, it's gonna be awesome, yes, get the RP Headperature Fiat, they're gonna be awesome, links in description. We don't have a sleep app. Here's a cool sleep app. Shout out and go to sleep, because sleep for your growth, isn't just some stuff all time or say, like, to gotta get your sleep and your veggies and a lot of the muscle, it's real, and it fights with anabolic steroids that high doses for how much it screws you up if you don't get enough of it. I was gonna have something else to say, but I gotta go to sleep to get Jacked, have a blessed night, and remember, every time the dream world carries you away, it's carrying you away, and to being way bigger, look at me, I'm asleep, but I'm huge, nine, nine, nine. See you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pyridization. The question today is about recovery. How is it different between madty folks and enhanced folks? If you don't know what that means, Google, Google's always got you. So before we get into the differences, we have to get a few caveats and sort of framework items set up. First of all, please give a look. Link is right here to our how much muscles do steroid add video. So basically, we talk about performance sciences and talk about how much muscle they realistically add. In addition to that, we have videos that are madty versus enhanced training and madty versus enhanced diet. But once you watch those, you have a much better understanding of what our sort of take is on how much these substances are effective and to what extent. And it'll basically set you up with just a more holistic understanding of how madty versus enhanced works. And per that above, and these are things I see in those other videos, all enhanced people in my estimate, including in this video, are very advanced maddies that have gotten almost all their natural gains and transition to enhanced after that. So probably after about 10 years of training, it's not folks that start a training after six months, they're like, ah, let's go enhanced in addition to that. Well, not once addressed in this video, not a single time. But what do you can get away with idea of recovery? I remember it was told to me once. I saw two very muscular valene gentlemen at the Arnold that were from Europe and they were walking around the expo. I was like, oh, the cop, those guys are jacked. And someone told me, you know, those guys all take tons of trend. And that's how come they can eat total junk all the time and stay lean. And to me, it's like, you know, if you're going to literally poison your body with insanely bad for your drugs, tell them to use them as crutches, use them as optimalities, right? Like, you get a blow up something in your backyard. Might as well be attached to a rocket to launch something up into space. Some shit like that and just blow up your, you know, old stove and get trapped in your eyes for no reason. So a lot of people will say, well, listen, if I take drugs, I don't have to get as much sleep out on half feet as much because the drugs have any covered. Well, yeah, if you want to take drugs, but get nanny results, you can take nanny recovery mostly away and still get those nanny results. Here we're talking about using drugs to get superhuman results, which means all of your recovery is already sentenced and as good as possible. And then we try to figure out what layer of intricacy drugs add to that, right? So her that we have five points of recovery differences between nanny and hence, sure this is not a completely inclusive list. There's a good enough list to get you guys thinking on the big picture. So first, one dependable thing you get, especially from antibiotics is an increased recovery speed from delayed onset muscle so you still get sore if you train very hard on antibiotics. And if you don't get sore, if you train hard nanny, it's probably not training hard enough. So if you were nating your training XYZM on a set and you were getting pretty sore, that's awesome. If you were healing on time, you start taking antibiotics, you're not getting sore anymore. That's an invitation to train much harder so that you still get sore, but even if you still get sore, usually you heal faster with antibiotics. More quick and you get un-sour quick as long as you're taking antibiotics and you're eating properly and you're sleeping and contracts the amount of time you're sore for, which is very good because you can hit it hard sooner and thus get more growth per any given unit time. Point so yes, drugs help with that recovery very much. Now here is where the interesting thing is start to happen when it's not just okay, open and shut. So to connective tissue recovery ratio starts to go into a huge favor of muscle, a disfavor of connective tissue, which means your muscles begin to heal very quickly. Your connective tissues, here's the complexity. If you take the average general antibiotics, then your connective tissues heal just about the same because there's a few classes of antibiotics that reduce your connective tissue healing rates, trend being an example. Other classes of antibiotics, for example, to one of which belongs is that Equipal is bold and on EQ. It actually increases the speed and completeness with which your connective tissue heals. But on average, those two tend to cancel each other out and you take the average antibiotic, you should not expect a whole lot of help with tendon recovery. It's okay, that's not bad. It's not hurting me. Hold on a second. Your muscles are recovering so fast, they're getting big, so fast that they can outpaste your connective tissue and thus pose injury problems. So if you're enhanced, you have to give some thought to one, taking more of the kinds of antibiotics and there are a few different kinds. That tend to increase the speed and completeness of connective tissue healing. Or if you take the other ones that sort of take away from it a little or just aren't fast enough, you have to make sure to train either a little bit lighter all the time or take distinct periods of much lighter training, alternating with periods of have her training so that the heavy training doesn't add up, add up, and then you snap your shit up. So that's definitely a concern. But I would say on the net balance into neutral direction slash direction of which you're after you're more attentive to recovery. Now, if you take certain compounds, the you recovery is helped on average, but I would say for joint and connective tissues unless you use it in a very specific way, antibiotics tend not to help that problem and if you're training hard, they make that problem marginally a little bit worse because your muscles can get away from your ligaments and things like that, other connective tissues and that strength disparity can increase the chance of injury, just one of the reasons why I see really freaky injuries, mostly in people that use drugs and not natties. Point number three, more bad news. Sleep can be harder to get stimulants. Remember, we're talking about all enhancement stimulants, a clan for example, a trend by itself is a drug and just a huge burden of antibiotics in general makes sleep worse and that's not good. So at some point you take enough trend, you know, it helps it helps to recover and everything helps you grow muscle, but at some point it starts to interfere with sleep so much that the help and the hurt and the set of balanced and any more on top of that is probably in that negative. So sleep can be harder to get and that's a problem. However, point number four, there are other drugs that you can take on enhancement that makes sleep easier to get. For example, growth hormone, dose appropriately, especially before you go to bed and then potentially in the early morning slash middle of the night, can make your sleep deeper and more complete and more recovering than you ever thought was possible after age six or something is sleep like a child. So can you get better sleep using antibiotics? Yes, you have to mitigate or you have to decrease how much total nitrogen load you're exposing yourself to and take the kinds of adrogens, not trend. For example, that don't that minimally interfere with your sleep in an addition to that, if you layer in a healthy dose, so to speak, of growth hormone appropriately timed, then you can get some very, very great sleep better than nattiesleep, especially towards the end of a contest prop can really, really help. But if you're not attentive, you will get worse sleep, which is why when the big illusion here with recovery differences is people say, oh, I take the drugs and I recover better. Wow, sort of. If you don't mind which drugs you're taking, how much in a relationship to other drugs, you can have worse recovery outcomes rather than better ones. Lastly, sorry, second to last, you still need as much sleep as a nattie to make gains. Okay, absolutely do. So this idea that you can be on antibiotics and not sleep and still grow muscle is true, but then you're not getting the optimum result. If you get as much sleep as you would as an nattie, even more with the aid of something like growth hormone, then you grow that much more. Sleep is ultra antibiotic and the most high quality sleep you can get the better. So if you're taking enhancements, it's probably good to take them in such a way that most of the year, at least they enhance your sleep and not take away from it. If you're saying, yeah, I love trying to get to me jack, but it hurts my sleep, it's not sustainable equation. Point number five, pretty much the last point almost last point is that you get anxious and angry or easier. Antibolic tend to increase your central drive. They increase how fast you recover from systemic stress. So if you have a hard workout where you feel like you need to peel yourself up with the floor emotionally, if you're not enough antibiotics, a couple hours later you're ready to go and you're super fucking crazy. That's the upside where you can actually just do repeat ultra hard workouts. However, the downside is that generally you get anxious and angry or easier in antibiotics. So if you're driving through traffic and you're maybe a little bit late to your doctor's appointment, if you're drunk free, everything else being equal, you can be like, you know, traffic's outside of my control. You know, my dentist is an asshole anyway. He's always 20 minutes late. So if I'm 10 minutes late, I'm just saving both of us time, right? On the other hand, if you're in an apocalypse, when somebody cuts you off in traffic, same trip to the dentist and he has a Ferrari, you start thinking, I wonder if I could rip open that guy's car door and stab him with his own car door. Would not be a joyful, just blood squirting everywhere. I'm just blood squirting all over the steering wheel. You just like as his life leaves his body, you get more power. That's how you feel. And then you're like, holy shit, the hell am I thinking? And somebody actually cuts you off and you're like, fuck, and you're super anxious, you're going to disappoint your dentist and what if you can't get your teeth clean? And it's just this every next step in your life is the beginning of the end. That's the slip that breaks your tibia, that you get an infection. And then they take the whole leg and then you're in the hospital and the bills pile up, this is kind of thoughts you have all the time. It's really fun. So the editing side and aggression that you get from antibiotics really does hurt your recovery unless you know how to manage it very well. It takes a lot of sort of psychological presence, mess and practice, right? And it awareness and a desire and understanding that yes, I am, it's psychological disease and I have to practically work towards a state of ease that promotes recovery. So yeah, what's the bottom line here? You definitely heal the muscular tissue level faster. You heal from systemic stresses faster. You probably get to healing faster from being sick. So like a thing I've noticed at least colloquially all that let you guys have the little insight. I'm not sure if it's been studied on a grand scale, although the sum of research that alludes to it. If you're in a ballast, you get sick less often. And if you get sick, you get un-sick quite quickly. So they do help. They do help, however, I want you guys to take the big point away from this lecture is they help with some trade-offs and caveats that have to be attended to, for example. Yes, they help your muscle seal faster, but that presents a potential problem for your connective tissues. Something you have to manage, something you have to stay away from going too hard for too long. In addition, they can help your sleep, but they can also hurt your sleep. They can help your systemic recovery, but through anger and anxiety they can hurt it. So you have to use these things intelligently with the guidance of a coach like broader a Chavez T-Mevil GSP, or like Joe Jeffery at the Physicolective, get in touch with these folks to learn how to do these things. Optimally, if you're going to do it, if you're in a country that allows them to be done legal and if you're not cheating at sport, kudos, but remember, these are powerful tools with powerful good effects and potentially very powerful bad effects. It's not like this pill you take. We just makes everything better. If you want a pill, it just makes everything better when you take it. Ressonspirsation.com, hashtag slash forward slash the pill. It's just limited offer. Just 18 easy payments of 99, 99, 99. 99. It's a lot of money. See you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pyrridsation. Welcome to video number 8 in our series of how to build your hypertrophy plan. Now that you've built your hypertrophy plan, you have to make sure to execute it properly. And that means increasing and decreasing the number of working sets that you work doing. And some of the working set increases and decreases come from how you feel about the sets. So we will get to that in another video. But a lot of what determines how many working sets you're doing is going to have to come from how pumped you're getting and how sore you're getting. We'll talk about it in just a bit. What those mean and how to interpret them and how the hypertrophy app interprets them. Because these videos are program design videos and program execution videos. But they're also like a mini advertisement if you're curious about the hypertrophy app. The hypertrophy app is out now. It's for sale. I would recommend buying the year if you buy a month you like it and you go for the year after. In any case, the link is in the description. So please get out that and enjoy. I like the app a lot. I actually will never train ever again as long as I live without my hypertrophy app. As I'm doing hypertrophy training, the app's coming with me. I had one workout a few weeks ago where like for whatever reason I had access to my phone. And I had to do some pump work and a jam. I was traveling for work. And I was like, this is off. I have nowhere to write my reps. It's like the app loves me and it knows me and it tells me exactly what to do. And without it, I'm unwanted child. And it's like a adopt a child, a family where everyone in that family has a connection except for you. And Christmas, like, the gifts they get are really good and your gifts are always like not that great. It's just feeling love. That's what it's like training without the app. In any case, soreness, let's talk about it. What a soreness tell you. You don't have to get sore in order to grow muscle. Period. So if you never get sore, that's not a problem. If you were muscle growth for muscle is good and you never get sore, just keep on doing what you're doing. Great results will continue. On the other hand, if your growth isn't that great and you feel that the muscle is under stimulated. It's also just, you don't get really tired training it. You seem like your mind muscle connections not that great. It also doesn't get pumped in all this other stuff and it's not getting sore. You could probably do more volume in order to do more stimulus in order to drive more hypertrophy. And while you're giving it more stimulus, you're going to give it more damage. And that's going to trigger the soreness response. So no, you don't have to get sore, but if you're not getting sore and you're not getting good results, increasing the volume might be a good idea. If you're getting a little bit sore, all the way up to soreness that heels just before the next time you train that muscle, there are 99 things you could do to improve your results, but training more probably isn't one of them. If you're getting a little bit sore and you have room to continue to get even more sore and still heel, you could have a little bit of volume. If you're getting as so sore that let's say Monday you train chest and then Thursday you train chest. If every time we train chest Monday, Wednesday evening is the last twinge of soreness and Thursday morning is the first time you don't feel sore. If you trained more than that, you would drive so much damage that you would still be under able to perform in that Thursday exercise and that Thursday session. Training a muscle while it's sore once or twice isn't a big deal, but consistently training him in a sore means you're training it when it's tissue integrity is lower higher chance of injury. And it hasn't properly recovered yet, so it's chance of growing more muscle is lower than if you let it recover and don't don't do so many sets that you get chronic overlapping soreness. If you get chronic overlapping soreness to say you're going to say I'm going to do eight sets of chest every Monday, every Thursday. And every single fucking week Monday Thursday or chest to still sore from last time, you should be doing fewer sets. If the answer to growing more was just to do more, we wouldn't need sport science and you just do as much as you can grow when you'd be in a finnitely big you're the jogger knocked congratulations. But the reality is training is a fine line between doing too little and doing too much and if you're so sore you can never recover. You have to do fewer sets and if you're never sore and you're not growing you should probably be doing more sets. So how does the app handle this? Well, it'll ask you how sore you're getting. It'll not ask you that in the first session of the first time you use the app because what are you sore from you should not be sore yet. But as the sessions a week for breast and a muscle group you've already trained earlier in the week is trained again. The app is going to ask you hey, how sore did you get? And it uses that data to inform how much volume it gives you for that session it's asking about next time. Notice it's not the same session. So let's do the demo here. Bench Press Medium, Brip 160 pounds, I got 11 reps, I check it in. And boom, it comes up and asks me chest soreness. Now notice the wording here. It's very important. How sore did you get in your chest after training it last time? Not this time. It's set number one. You're not sore. You're just pumped maybe a little bit or maybe a lot. You don't get sore right then and there. The question it's asking you is did you get last time you trained your chest. So think back or came it was last Monday. Maybe you never got sore. Maybe you got a little bit sore healed totally on time. Maybe you just healed. Like it was Thursday that you trained it Wednesday. You barely just healed. And Thursday you're like great for the first time ever or you're still sore. Depending on which one of these you answer, the app will increase decrease or maintain the number of sets you do for that Monday work out next week. Because look at it this way. If you did six sets of chest last Monday. And this Thursday your chest is still sore, the apps going to kick you down to five sets because six is too many. But if you did three sets and you never got sore, the app is among other factors that it balances because it's more of a complex algorithm. We'll talk about that in a few later videos. It'll at least somewhat suggest to the algorithm like, hey, this person might need four sets next Monday because the three sets they did was just they never got sore. And if you got a little bit sore or just healed generally, it mostly does nothing with that and it says, hey, the volume is pretty good. There are some conditions under which it'll alter volume here, but that's a nuanced discussion that's actually just proprietary algorithm stuff. I'm not allowed to share. So the engineer's will kill me. In any case, you rate it. Say it. Never got sore. It goes, okay, got it. You don't have to do dick about it. The app does all the thinking for you. All right. That's so honest. What about the pump? First of all, what the hell does the pump even have to do with muscle growth? It has two things to do with muscle growth. One, there has been direct, causative literature, mechanistic literature, scientific studies that show that actual cell swelling triggers the molecular pathways that cause muscle growth. That's a real thing. The pump literally causes muscle growth. It's self-border. But that's probably not a lot of hypertrophy. Or it's a real transient where it increases the cell for a few days, and the cell size goes down. There's a lot of stuff. Your body can increase and decrease the size of a bunch of organs for a very small amount of increased very small amount of time, and then it goes back down. And cell swelling probably does cause some long-term hypertrophy, but not a ton. It indirectly however, think about the kind of training that makes you the most pump. Training that is close to failure. Training that is with high tension. Training that targets the muscle that you're going for. If you get a forearm pump doing bicep curls, but out of bicep pump, you have a fucking problem. Your bicep's probably aren't growing much, because how the hell are the forms essentially getting all of the stimulus themselves? So there the pump is a proxy of stimulus, and also metabolites. If you go close to failure, generating a crap load of metabolites, the burn, that almost always triggers the pump afterward. So the pump is the canary on the coal mine. You know, the canary goes in there to die of the poison gas. That's why they use the canary in the coal mine. Or the canary is like a super canary, and it comes back out of it. I was good, and then my coal miner goes down and he dies and canary is like, it's good for me, then gas like fucking laughing gas to me, bro. So don't have a super canary in any case. The pump tells us, hey, as your other stuff happening, that's probably causative of muscle growth. If you get no pump at all from your training, man, the app's probably going to tell you to do more sets, because this is not enough. If you get a good pump or a great pump, the app's like, bro, you're good. Where you are. If you get an extreme pump, an amazing pump, what I have found in my experience, is that tends to correlate to a high level of delayed onset muscle solenoids and a high level of muscle damage. All of the workouts I've heard out of my life, after which I got insanely sore, I have the most psychotic pump ever. And I should have fucking stopped earlier, because what I always tell myself, I get an unreal pump in my quads after three sets of leg breasts, and I'm like, that's the workout? Yes, because I would do two more sets, and then I'd not be able to walk well, and then I would get sore for like eight days straight, which is too much, it causes too much damage. If you have an amazing pump, unreal pump in that muscle group, you can be done. And it's totally cool. Now if you know when you get an amazing pump, it doesn't get so sore and you can keep training, that's all you keep going. But the app, if you have an unreal pump, it feeds into the algorithm to tell the app to probably not raise your sets anymore, because if you're getting amazing pumps, you're winning. If you're getting shit pumps, they're not that great, you could probably do more under a few different circumstances and the app algorithm layers all that in. So we're doing bench presses, we did our first set, the last set of the muscle groups, so it could be bench press. If we did dumbbell press after it wouldn't ask you a pump until the whole chest muscle was stimulated, because it's trying to assert a science sets to the whole chest muscle group, it's going to ask you a couple questions when you check in. Joint pain, we saw last time, so it was saying, no pain, the chest workload thing, we'll do that in the future video, don't worry about that yet, but the chest pump, it asks us a question, did you get a low pump, a moderate pump, more an amazing pump. Based on how you answer that, it will recommend to its own internal algorithm, to think a little bit more deeply about things to keep the set the same, to lower the sets, or to increase the set. And that way, if you use the hypertrophy app, what you do is you just do honest ratings, the entire time, and honest ratings are so important, I'll talk about why in a second. If you honestly rate, what the app does is it recommends the amount of sets per you and every exercise and every muscle group over time that gets as close as possible to our best scientific understanding of your ideal volume. Eventually, you want to do a volume that is getting you nice and pumped. Soar that's anywhere from a little bit sore to just recover before next time. And that hypothetically will grow the most muscle that you can grow. You can think through a lot of these things and take notes and remember, I swear to that again, and okay, is that how do I rate that? Soar that should I increase my sets? I, before we made the app, I would do that all in my head, and I'm sure you guys do as well. If you use the RP hypertrophy templates that we used to have for sale, then they ask you sort of pump and soarness kind of all the same question, the auto regulations kind of clunky, this, this is the future. Because the app asks you all the questions and it does all the thinking under the hood. The app is your coach. All you do is rate honestly, and it will crap out a program it thinks is the best program every single session and we can update for you to make it better for you. I don't want to put to find a point in this, I'm not sure it's exactly true, but no other app does this. And by the way, without sounding too fucking cocky and way out of my league, which I already am, we kind of amended the system at RP. Nobody really pays attention to someone as a pump the way we do, and we were the first people to do it, we were the first to formalize it, and we're the only people that actually have the inside track to be able to make these algorithms work. So you won't find this anywhere else, and if you do, they still are shit and a best of luck too, and I hope they have a great time. In any case, honesty, why is honesty so important here? Because here's the thing. A lot of us are used to being coached by other coaches. Sport team is growing up, you got a pile of concoge, body building coached center. And there's this weird dynamic that plays out, especially if your coach is a child, where you kind of want to like impress the coach or something like that. And if you deal with the app as a coach, you kind of start wanting to impress the app. So when it's like, hey, how pumped did you get it? You're like, oh, I want more sets next time. So I'll just say I got a small pump, so to the link crease. But say I've sorted you get, you're like, oh man, I don't want to do more of this exercise. So I'll say I got real sore. Don't do that. Because it uses the pumps and soreness to inform other deeper algorithms that later in the apps lifetime will allow it to surface to you better ideas for exercises and worst ideas for exercises, sore them for you so that you're more likely to pick the better ones. If you fuck up the algorithm by pretending like you're going to fuck with the apps somehow and making a think whatever, it's just going to cause a ton of nonsense. It's got, you know, garbage and garbage out and you have no idea what's going on. You can always manually, easily, delete or add sets any time you want. Any time you want, no problem. And there's a separate workload feature, which will handle a bunch of the auto regulation for you anyways far as volume is concerned. So what you have to do is answer as honestly as possible. Period. If you do that, the app does its best work. In any case, if you're not using the app, still want you to get a ton of value out of this video, just be honest with yourself when you're doing your own ratings. Don't be like, I have the more sore I get the better. That's bullshit. You have to heal on time. And the more pumped, you get the better, that's absolutely true. But not if you're going overboard getting psychotically fatigued or if that pump is making your son a so bad that you won't heal on time. Folks, take care of yourselves. Next time, we're going to talk about how to progressively overload your training within the context of a training plan. And I'll see you guys then. Oh, by the way, link in the description to buy the app. Make me some damn money. I don't have a lot of money around and I want more. See you next time. Thank you.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance, periodization video number 10 in the how to build and execute your hypertrophy, mesocycle, video series, there's 12 videos total. So, getting to the end of things here. Today, we're gonna talk about individualizing volume. I'm gonna tell you all about how that works. And I'm gonna try to show you how it works with the new RP hypertrophy app, which is fore sale, the link is right in the description below. It's the top link. And by the way, if you like it for a month, think about getting it for the year for two good reasons. One, it actually saves you 30% money, which is like a lot of savings. Definitely consider that. The other is it gets me a lot of money. And I like money. Don't you like money? It wouldn't be nice if I got wealthy. You could look from your not so wealthy home up to my home on the hill and you could see my unicorns practicing for synchronized unicorn dancing, which is what I'm gonna get into when I'm a trailier there. In any case, volume adjustment. Here we go. In the hypertrophy app. And without it, if you wanna do this stuff in your head and be a proper scientist, so to speak, the algorithm that determines your volume that it recommends. And by recommends, I mean, it just physically gives you fewer or more sets every single time that you train. It is complicated because at least three factors go into it. The first factor is how pumped you're getting. If you're getting really crappy pumps that are barely there, it'll probably wanna raise your volume. If you're getting amazing pumps, it probably doesn't wanna give you any more volume because you're checking the green box, you're winning. The next one is soreness. If you don't get soreness, that's probably okay. As long as you're getting good pumps and good progression. But if you're not getting great pumps and everything else is mad, if you're not getting soreness, trying to do more volume is probably a good direction towards more growth. But if you're getting really sore, especially super ultra sore, you don't wanna do any more volume and maybe you'd a little bit less because there's too much damage in its overkill. But there's a third factor there. What your own perception is of your fatigue and recovery status. For sustainability purposes, and sustainably is the only way we grow muscle enough of it on long term. You gotta keep coming back week on week. If you are doing an amount of volume, let's say 10 by 10 in the squat, if you're really having thought things through, if you're doing an amount of volume that overwhelms you, you feel psychologically and physically under-recovered. Yeah, the pumps are whatever the sun is, whatever you're just drained. You can't keep doing that to yourself. The point at which you should feel completely drained around the world is the last week of every single month of cycle before the deal. All the weeks up to that should be much more manageable. So you shouldn't have a volume that is overwhelming to you. It is not ideal or sustainable, physiologically and very importantly, psychologically. The game has ever looked at your plan. And you're like, I have six sets of upright rows. I'm gonna kill myself. Or just leave the gym and never do an upright row ever again. And if you do a lot of sets, if you have a ton of sets like way too many for how much your volume tolerance is for much your workload tolerance is, you can get through them, but you sort of, there's a fatal conceit there. Is that you are just getting through them? You're like, I'm not gonna upright row. 15, 16, 16, 17, rack, fuck God, I hear two minutes later. I hear it. Yeah. Maybe if you had three or four sets of upright rows, and not six, you could focus like a fucking cyborg on those three or four sets. And just fucking grind about perfecty-centric control, everything, cause you're not overwhelmed by the amount of volume you have to do. And then you could really do a high-quality job with those two or four sets and get your best combination of growth and fatigue. Because you could get a little bit more growth from doing six sets, not so well, than four sets really well. But the fatigue that comes along for the right is so high, it's just gonna burn you out in a few weeks anyway, and you're not gonna get a lot of long-term games. So, pump and soreness, we already asked about those, and talked about them in video number eight, they're absolutely all that already. But there is another question for workload that the Apple asks you independently. Let's look at this in the hypertrophy method, like all the we made earlier. So we're gonna check this in, and it's gonna say it's gonna ask about joint pain and chest soreness to say we got low pain and got a little sore, okay, great. And then just so happens that at the end of the workload, four a specific muscle group, every exercise that goes in that muscle group, which this bench press camera bar down set is the last in this example. What we're gonna have here is once we check in and do as many reps, it's going to ask us joint pain again because it's a different load. So if you switch to load, sometimes heavier loads, cause more joint pain to lighter loads, the app will keep track of that, which is really neat. Say well, it didn't get a joint pain here, the chest pump was actually really good, moderate, and not amazing. Now the chest workload question comes up. I will put a fine point on this. This is where honesty to yourself is the only, only, only thing that matters. Let's take a look at how and why. So it says chest workload, how would you rate the difficulty of the work you did for your chest? All of the sets combined, how do you feel? Was it easy? Cause to be honest, our program currently is two sets of chest. You'd be like boom, boom, done. But it's the easiest thing in the world. Of course you'd click easy. That's obvious. Next one is pretty good. And this one I would say like, it's something you can keep doing week after week after week. In week one, ideally everything should be easy. In week two, three, four, et cetera, except for that last week, you should probably be clicking pretty good. If you're not, click easy, or click pushed my limits and the app will help raise or lower your volume to get you, it's kind of trying to get you into a pretty good state most of the time. If pushed your limits is what you select, here's how you feel about it. Push your limits means this. And it means exactly this. Let's say you had seven total sets for chest. After set seven, when you rack the shit, if your buddy turns to you, who does not have the RPI purge fiat, just get him in, I'm feeling it. You wanna do another set? You're like, bro, that last set, that, that, that, pushed my limits. I don't think anymore is a good idea. It really, really, the next set is gonna be junk falling from you. The next set, I'm just gonna be like, I'm still here, I think. Push your limits means it was great stimulus. It wasn't too much, but damn, it's getting close to that fine line. It's the same thing to be true with eating. You know, you could have like a huge burrito. I like the great max can place down the street. And someone's like, are you full? You're like, bro, I'm not too full. I'm not hurting. But if I have another chip, another corn chip, throw it on my mouth, another tortilla chip, that'll be that. I'll be way overboard. So push my limits is, I don't wanna do anymore. And here's a little insider trick. If you click, push my limits. On any of your muscle groups, in the app, in any given session, the next time that session comes up again, next week, it won't increase your sets no matter what you're rate for pump or soda or anything else. It won't increase them anymore. Push my limits is a hard stop to no more. Seven sets, that's it. Next week, also seven. Even if you, the pump and so on and so on the other stuff's in, like you could do eight sets, it won't go to eight. So if the app is overdoing the volume for you, that means you are not being honest enough with your workload rating. So the workload rating is your chance, it's your second to last chance, to really decide, do I want to do less volume? The same amount of volume or more volume. And if you're like, look, I don't wanna do any more volume. I feel like it won't be sustainable for me. Just say, push my limits. You are not admitting that your ego is weak. We don't expect you to be able to do more. It's nonsense. All that stuff just float right the fuck out of your head. Again, then I wanna press, I wanna press push my limits, but it was only four sets of leg press. Okay, okay, let me do the logic for you. That means you're a bad person. That means someone who's better than you in every single way, who should be married to the wife or married to instead, and she just found your dumb ass, he could do five sets of leg press. Is that what you think the world has come to? No, if it pushed your limits of push your limits, that's it. Now if you're like, I'm just being a worse fucking known person, push my limits. Do you really think like I can do more? I should do more. Hey, hell yeah, say pretty good or easy. But if it really is pushing your limits, don't do anymore because quality always comes before quantity. So be honest. And of course, if it's too much, because sometimes you like nine sets of legs, you're like can't walk after set six, set six was officially your push limits set. And you did three more. I'm like, you got to ahead of yourself. You got excited, you programed all these sets. Put in too much if it's accurate, then the app will reduce how much work you do next week. I said earlier, second to last chance. I'll show you what the last chance looks like. And last chance is repeating for always. So it's a pretty good, say, okay, great. If we want, let's see if we go down to Barbados, not real. And it's program two sets for us. And we know like, yeah, last week I did choose what I chose. And it is I understand it is cap me a two sets because of what I chose, but I got a stressed. I felt like what was too much was because my girlfriend was breaking up with me. And she physically used my dog's body to hit me with. It was real nasty argument. I can do more this week. You just go right up here and you add a set. Go problem. Or if you have three sets and you're like, man, I know I rated what I rated, but two sets is gonna cook my ass. You go over here and you remove a set. And you can do it anytime you want. So as a recap, the Sornas and Pump stuff, the app handles for you, be honest with that. The workload stuff, be really honest with that. Because it's the second to last time, really as a programmatic feed for thing, it's the last chance you get to tell the app, hey, I do want more sets. If you think it's good on other grounds, or no, I definitely don't want any more sets. The push my limits thing is a huge thing to use for time saving. If you've used our templates before, and you rate accurately, and you can hypothetically do more, they'll just keep giving you more volume. And you're like, fucking God, why? This is crazy. I don't want this. And then people will say, I like you guys, RPS great, but I'm doing two hour workouts. I don't have time for two hour workouts. I want an hour and that's it. With this app, you build your workout. You get to choose when you build it, exactly how many sets you're gonna do. First week, you can edit all the sets yourself. Condense it down to something that takes you 45 minutes. With a little bit of room for adding a few sets here and there, but when you don't want any more sets, you're like, my workout takes me an hour. Next week, it's gonna also take me an hour. I don't want to take any more, because I only have an hour. Great, just great, push your limits on everything. It's that judging you under the hood, it's not calling you a little bitch. Don't worry about any of that stuff. It's just gonna say, hey, this isn't the most of this person wants to do set-wise. It's still progress as you unload. It's still progress as you unwrapped. You will still get phenomenal results. If you just say push my limits, it'll never add another set to that muscle group or that exercise ever again for the entire rest of the mesocycle as long as you keep adding, push my limits. If you are, strap for time, and if you wanna work up that's quick, make a quick workout, rate everything as push limits. Rate all the soreness and pump and stuff accurately and it will not increase your sets any more than you want it to. And last chance is like if you want another set here and there you can always add it manually and the next week it'll go, okay, you need two sets, the week before this week you did three, next week, I'm gonna assume you wanna do three again unless you wanna delete it and go from there. So the app here is really just infinitely customizable to exactly what we want, but it also thinks under the hood. It's like an expert system that says, hey, this is what I came up for you as probably the best idea. Based on your rating, it has better ideas, but at the end of the day, you are the arbiter. You can always choose the reps, load weight, you can always modify them, the app is value-free, it doesn't judge you. We'd secretly this algorithm, the judges you morally actually the app collects your data stream off of your apps like YouTube and it judge it to shit out of what videos you're watching, hand-tie it, it'll judge you on that. In any case, judge your positively, of course, a man of culture. I've said enough, possibly too much, link in the description to buy the thing. By it, I get more Lamborghinis. We'll see you guys next time. Next Tuesday for the next video in the series, peace homeies.

Hey, what's up folks? It's me, Dr. Mike, for Renaissance Pyrridsation, and welcome to video number three. In our series about how to design your own muscle growth program, this one is about how to warm up and select proper loads, a ga-a weight, for your muscle growth journey to begin. I am making these videos because I want to show you how to build a program to make you jacked, but also I train exclusively using the RP-high-perch of e-training app, which I also designed, at least helped. I helped it. And I did design the whole thing in the engineers executed and added a bunch of their own cool features. You don't have to use the app, it's cool, and there's a link in the description. So you can pay money for it if you'd like. If you're seeing this video before May 2023, then you can sign up for the promotional list, and then you get a super big discount on the app in tons of free goodies. If you're seeing this video after, same link will take you to the buy screen, and you can just purchase the app and play around with it and use it. Just like in your programs, it's really neat. I think it works really well. I'm using it for all my training now, and we'll seemingly in perpetuity. You don't have to get the app, but it's cool, so link in the description if you want to get that. We're going to use the app to illustrate these concepts, but mostly this video is about learning. All right, how to warm up and choose loads. This conversation of how to warm up and how to choose loads for your exercise is the best head at the same time, which is why we're having it at the same time. Because the warm-up process is how you get to choosing the right loads. And there's a process here that's all roughly six steps in length. Sounds like a lot. Don't worry, these are all really simple steps. So here we go. First is the optional general warm-up. This is when you go like jog in the treadmill for five minutes or ten minutes or do jumping jacks. It's insanely overrated. It's cool if you want to do it, it makes you feel a lot better to do it. Fuck, do it. Do it. You have my blessing. It's good for you and it's not bad. But what I generally do is I do some like arm circles and trunk twists and some sort of like stiff leg Added lift things with my body and then like maybe a couple of body is quite and I'm good to go. So I never really do a big general warm-up and I think that especially as you get bigger and stronger, just warming up for the specific warm-up with the exercise itself that you're going to be doing first, takes care of most of that. So you can do it. You can not do it, not a big deal. The next thing you do is you take whatever machine or barbell dumbbell, whatever you're doing, whatever exercise you're doing and choose a super light load or even zero load like if you're doing, well for some for many people just if you're doing lateral raises just using your hands, I do that every now and again just warm up in my hands body weight squats and set it up so you see their low loaders you're a road and you want to do 12 reps with it. But the load you pick is not your 12-front max good God. You're picking something that's like you can do 30 reps of it or more no problem. It really is just to get the technique and the movement which means your technique needs to be good. Here's the important part. If you're doing you know chest presses don't just be like a, done full range of motion slow and controlled it looks silly when you're doing with the fucking bar that's unloaded, but you remember you are warming up for tissues which also means you have to take them through the full range of motion. And also you're priming the nervous system which means full range of motion and because you're priming the nervous system, you're also starting to really remind your muscles or remind your body of what that technique feels like and moves like. So your technique should be spotless from wrap one of your warm up all the way down to wrap last wrap of the last set of that exercise and then you move out of the next exercise. Always good technique. No rushing. Yes it's weird to slowing control eccentric just the bar and then press it back up. Slow and control someone's looking at you training like you know there's no way down that right like God out of here. Yes I know that I'm practicing to be great Olympic weight lifters which are better people than all of us. If you watch them squat or snatch or clean and jerk the empty bar, it looks exactly like when they have fucking 200 kilos on it. So it's a big deal to do everything right. That's up to 12 reps at your 30 reps or a wrap plus. Next set is almost identical except you add some weight so that it's something you can do for like 20-ish reps no problem. But you only do eight reps with it. A little heavier, fewer reps now you're getting warm things that start in a groove. It could be a pretty big shock. You put on your 20-RM from doing your 40-RM before you can be like, oh they shit this is the first weight you lift in the gym this general like, I'm damn, I feel this shit. This is when you start to get a feel for how heavy the shit really is. And you can start to estimate how many gun to the head reps you have like if you had to do as many reps as you could. You start to get a feel like, is this really more like 15 reps or is this really more like 25 reps max for me? Always stop at 8th though, just 8th. Set a 12, set a 8th. You'll never be able to predict what the next set is going to go. Rest until you feel good again, no rush. You rest between 12 and 8, 8 and 4 and so on and so forth. People sometimes warm up like they have like somewhere to be really soon like, oh I have to go to the the gala after this and it's just going to warm up and put weights on and warm up. I've actually seen people warm up, they do the bar, they rack, they put weights on and no stopping, they just go right in and just do that, more weight, do that, more weight and then you're working weight. It's like, if you're just trying to get the fuck out of the gym, just don't show up. That's how you're going to get hurt, that's how your technique is going to slip up, it's all bad news. After you're warm up, rest a little bit until you feel like, oh fucking ready to go, I'm not breathing heavy, I'm not tired, not all that stuff. Next, take your best guess at what you think you're working weight should be. What, rep range should you work your weight being, that's up to you. You can do sets of 5 to 10, sets of 10 to 20 or sets of 20 to 30, anything between 5 and 30 reps in a set close to failure is absolutely effective from us again. You want to basically take that weight that you think is going to get you in that rep range, but only do four repetitions with it. What that does is it really finishes the warm up process and potentially it prepares your nervous system for a very similar load. If you're squatting 3.50 and for reps, let's say, if you do 135 or 12, 2.25 or 8, you don't want to just go do 3.15 for a set of 12 or 15 or whatever you're going to do. Because like that jump between 2 to 25 or 15 is fucking massive and you're going to be like, oh my fucking God, and all the reps are going to feel like shit until like the last 3. When they don't feel like shit anymore because your body can finally groove, but not your tighter. So it's still feel like shit. What you want to do is a set of 4 reps with something like 3.50. It could be 300, it could be 3.15, it could be 330, no wrong answers there. Just in that vicinity, you do four reps with it, and you do two things one. You finish the set and you're like, okay, great. Like now my muscles and joints are nervous system are really ready to do another set. But two and very importantly, you're in a position now where you're like, did I pick the right working weight? Because you could do a set of 4, be like, bro, I can barely get fucking six of this shit for sure. I'm going to drop 25 pounds off and do that for my first set, my actual working set. Or you could be like, yeah, I could do it trillion of these. I definitely need to go up again and do another set of 4 or go up again and do a working set. But I know it's got to be a lot more weight. Or you're like, yeah, that 4 was like tough just because it's new, but I know I'm going to be able to hit like something like 8 reps and I want a set of 5 to 10. So that's money. Again, rest until you feel ready, no rushing, and then point number 5, you do your first working set. With the load that's close to the last warm up weight that you did a set of 4 with, a bit lighter, a bit heavier based on how that set felt. You stop at 3 reps and reserve with good technique and you enter in the reps. So all this warm up stuff is really just on the fly. So if we go over here to the RPI Purchryfiap, let's say if camera bench press, we did all of our warm up, so ready and our set of 4, our last warm up, let's say we did with the camera bars ruthless, so 135 pounds. We scroll through, we pick 135 and it gives us a rep range that says 2 RIR. In the RPI Purchryfiap, the first week of training has you going to 2 reps in reserve. Traditionally, we've said 3 or 4, if you're an advanced trainee, it should be 3 or 4 not 2. But a lot of people have a bit of trouble pushing themselves, so we're trying to keep it simple and just hit 2 RIR. When you do this set, you can always click, you see you did 11 reps, click on 11, and it says log your set, press the check and button. We're going to do those, it's going to feel great. Once we click on there, it's going to ask us all kinds of questions that we'll get to in another video. So I'm not going to click that yet, but let's say 135 for the second set, you rest. We get a set of 8, and then voila, we would click that and that. Might even click them in just a second. But first, stop at 2 or 3 reps in reserve, whatever it is with good technique, write down your reps and continue on after. Now, after any given working set, if you think you got the weight wrong, absolutely change the weight. And in this case, you'd have a situation. Let's show some more functionality here. I remove set, just go back and pretend that never happened. Let's say you hit 135 for 11, and you're like, man, I really want to kind of set the 8 here, not 11. It's a little too light. I want to go heavier. So what you do is you hit duplicate exercise and fuck, I'm not repeated until the end of the mesocycle. I would generally click this if you want to continue this program. I'm going to hit duplicate and now we have Ben's press with a camera bar and a new weight to do it. So set 2. I say, yeah, 135 is too easy. It turns out I am Hercules, and I'm going to go to 150, and then you actually hit your desired 8 reps, and voila, it's much better for you in retrospect. And then later in future weeks, it'll remind you like, hey, like here's all your loads, and you're going to see us on 135 is 150. You know what, this next week, I'm going to change to 155, and then change this and so on and so forth. So you can always make weight modifications, but, but I will say this. The exact reps that you're hitting just don't fucking matter in any given week week to week they matter for progression. If you hit 9 last week, it should be 10 this week or if you did 105 pounds for 9 last week, you want 110 pounds this week for 9. But in a first week, just stick to the wrap range that you're in. So if you're in the 10 to 15 wrap range, that's your what you want to hit. The best stimulus to fatigue ratio for you. If you hit 14 reps or if you hit 11 reps, it just doesn't fucking matter. So can you use the duplicate exercise feature to for downsets and dropsets? Yes, we'll talk about that in another video. But do you have to just get really finicky on changing the weights? Uh, not really, and I would just say just hit the wrap range and everything takes care of itself after. This is the alphabet. Once we get into the beta build on some way of the way through that, we'll be adding in places for videos about reminders of how to warm up. Reminders of how to select load and a bunch of other goodies. So link in the description. If this is before mid May 2023, sign up for the promo. It gets you the app early and it is kind of rate and re-extricities. And if you're watching this video after mid May 2023, then voila, the bylink is in the bio folks. Remember Lamborghinis, despite my multiple attempts to lobby the United States Congress are not given out for free to people. Thus, I must pay for them. Thus you must download the app. Or trophy apps. See you guys next time. Next week. We will cover. Wait for it. Wait for it. Wait for it. We're talking about. Wow. Oh. Oh. Oh. How to estimate RIR's percent and get the reps that you want. Because picking to load is one thing. But how do we know we're actually training as close to failure as we intend to? We'll talk about that next time and I'll see you then. Thank you.

A lot of people look at pre-workouts and they go, oh, well, I don't know if fish was chemical stuff. It's gotta be bad. And they go, okay, how? I don't know. Who knows, he's got chemicals in it. Well, you're made of chemicals. And I just breathed into exclusively chemicals. And so did you, if you breathe, if you're not breathing, that's probably a bigger problem. Hey, folks. Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. Today's video is to ask you answer the question of, is pre-workout unhealthy? You're gonna hear a lot of stuff online about this, because a lot of people use pre-workout. And a huge fraction of those people are somewhat health conscious, making the claim that pre-workout is unhealthy, is gonna get you a lot of clicks and views and your reels and stuff. And sometimes there's some good points and other times it's a bit exaggerated. So let's take a look. First of all, what the hell is pre-workout and why do people use it? It is typically a supplement, usually in powder form that you mix with the water. And it's taken before training to boost energy, focus, and performance. It gives you better workouts on the output side. Most of the formulas that are effective contain caffeine and potentially a few other stimulants, they can also have pump enhancers, things that make you look more swollen during a workout, nitropic, basically drugs that make your cognitive state a little bit better than just a crazy psychosis of caffeine, and sometimes endurance boosters like beta-alienes so that you can get a few more apps going. You're used to fight fatigue. If you're really tired, pre-workouts can be really effective. They can improve work quality, give you a couple extra reps at the tail end of all of your sets and really allowing you to focus in on an mind muscle connection. And you can get a situation where you feel more hyped to train, which feels awesome. And it feels so awesome that some people become kind of psychologically reliant on pre-workouts, feeling they kind of need their pre-workout to feel like they're going to have a good session. They might also have very good sessions, not a pre-workout, but a lot of that pre-workout hype that you get is ends up being a little bit placebo effect. It's definitely a real effect there, but a lot of it is, you know, you know, you want the effect, you expect the effect and sometimes I can mean like, hey, I'm working out. I need pre-workout. Scott, you ever had people joke around about like, if they're going to train, they have to have pre-workout. Oh, yeah, everybody. 100%. That's a good thing. So many people. Yeah. And it's like, we know that's not true, but they sure don't want to believe that it's not true. So there's a reliance thing that we'll address a little bit later on. What specifically is in pre-workouts? The main ingredient is caffeine. A lot of the other stuff does some minor things. Caffeine is the heavy hitter. It's the main stimulant. It ranges from milder versions of pre-workouts being about 100 milligrams, which is like a so-there's strong cup of coffee. All the way up to the more extreme versions being 400 to 500 plus milligrams. A thousand milligrams a day is a preposterous amount of caffeine, and represents the safe limit for most people. Above that, you can be okay, but it's not a guarantee. To have one pre-workout product have 500 milligrams of caffeine is kind of a lot. Sometimes it makes sense. I believe though, you used to be at least back in the day, the Ronnie Coleman workout series of supplements had 550 milligrams of caffeine in a single dose. And it's like, boy, if you're running coal on you, if those kind of weights, that might make sense. If you're a lot of other people, it could make sense, but you definitely have to look twice to see, do I need this much caffeine and can I tolerate this much caffeine? Beta-aline is an ingredient. You'll see often in pre-workouts. It causes the tingles and makes your skin feel like you're rubbing like some kind of rough sweater on it. It's kind of I hate the feeling. A lot of people like it. It does help a little bit with muscular endurance, which you have to take it consistently over months for to increase your buffering capacity. You basically, the lack to gas it doesn't hit as soon and you can get a couple more reps in. It could be helpful for eye-perrophy, but a lot of people like the tingles because it kind of lets them know the product is working, which I still super cool vibes. I don't get it, but it's a thing people report. And a lot of time you'll have like central and malate or a variety of different kinds of nitrates. These improve your blood flow and muscle pumps. The research on them is that typically do not result in any bigger muscle gains. But part of the reason why you train is to get more jacked. A part of reason why you train is because you can look cool on your at the gym. If you have a harmless way of making yourself look cool, even if it's unhealthy you get more jacked, it's kind of dope. So I don't ever want to shit on pump supplements. I think they're great. Just as long as you know, like, there's not like a real big effect. If any on long-term gains, but if there's a cool psychological effect, like, hey, might as well. It's the same thing as like wearing a string or tank top versus wearing a sweater. You don't have the same performance in both, same muscle gain in both, but once you're nice and juicy, getting that string or tank going, flashing a nipple to stay see across now. That's going to go. So you're going to jail for that one. You know, I'm saying in most muscular, whatever people do in the gym, real people with real friends. Another one is creatine is sometimes included now. This is an example of what's typically called pixie dusting in the supplement industry. You put a little bit of everything into it, so you can put it on your label. A lot of the things aren't in the dose or in the frequency necessary to actually have the effect. Creatine accumulates in your muscle cells over time, and I mean, like, days and weeks. And then you just keep taking it to keep the levels higher. So creatine pre-workout has no acute effect. You will not get a better workout if you take creatine right before. You will not get a better workout if you take creatine right before three consecutive days. You've got to go for like a week, week and a half, and then it starts to make a difference. I recommend you take creatine either the morning or the evening with all the rest of your supplements, just like, you know, scoop it, chug a little bit of water. Creatine is a thing that in pre-workouts looks like it makes sense, but it actually doesn't. And so really good pre-workouts don't have creatine. On the other hand, a lot of really good pre-workouts do have it. And the number of reasons why they have it is the research teams are real smart. They know it's not an essential ingredient. But unfortunately, the way marketing works and the way kind of like people's intuition about the stuff works is a lot of folks will be like, hey, yeah, like, um, this one has creatine. This one doesn't. I'm going to buy the creatine one. And so like the scientifically minded pre-workouts that don't have a supplement, you don't need in it end up losing out on market share to supplements that have looked like they have everything. So a lot of companies, even good companies that make a fine product, will put creatine in there just to appeal to tick tockers that never bothered to go search on the internet or talk to chatchipyte about this creatine really timed well in my pre-workout. I'm not even blaming techtalkers because it's like, how would you know and ask that question? It's like a workout supplement should be in my pre-workout, right? Makes sense in reality not how it works. They also have some new tropics in there. Things like Elfine and AlphaGPC, Tarrine. A lot of these do a little bit of boosting mental focus, but mostly what they do is they smooth out the crazy restless anxiety of your caffeine high and allow you to be like this perfectly smooth, executing work machine. That's cool. These definitely have value just that 300 milligrams of caffeine is a bad time for most people. 300 milligrams of caffeine plus plenty of AlphaGPC, Elfine and things like Tarrine. All of a sudden, yeah, there's a high probability you just feel really focused really awesome versus feeling like you know you're having a panic attack. So that's basically what's in a lot of pre-workouts. Let's talk about why pre-workouts and how pre-workouts can be unhealthy. Basically there are three ways to do it. One is having more than a thousand milligrams of caffeine per day total with the inclusion of pre-workout. That's just bad news and nothing good will happen from that in most cases and plenty of low-level bad stuff, exhaustion and saying the low sleep quality, you know paranoia, all the other crazy stuff for way too much stimulants, heart rate goes up, blood pressure can go up, that great for long-term health and just too much. The other way is if you have pre-workout after the early afternoon like three, four p.m. and later higher dose caffeine and other stimulants definitely disrupt your sleep quality. This happens to almost everyone. Even if you're one of these people that can fall asleep no problem after having eight cups of coffee, your quality, your amount of deep, restorative and REM sleep is a lower. So you're actually getting less jacked or secreting less growth hormone, you're burning less fat, you're building less muscle and you're recovering less, simply because you're having pre-workout too late in the day. For the very sensitive to caffeine, it can even make falling asleep tough. So if you have a 7 p.m workout, you take pre-workout for it and loving you're trying to fall asleep and bad and you're just like laser burning the ceiling with your eyes, that's not recovery, that's not restoration, then you get six hours of sleep instead of eight, that's going to start to kick you in the dick. All of the benefits, all of the benefits of having really great workouts with pre-workout are completely crushed out by missing even an hour of sleep regularly. I have to say that because that's the way it works. Now, that being the case, that's really all the downsides, mostly, all these pre-workout. So if you use a moderate amount of pre-workout earlier in the day, it's totally cool. If you only use enough to get you a kick and not an amount that you're not sure if you're going to retain your sanity. And you can sleep normally with high quality and it doesn't cause you to have panic attacks or anxiety. And your sleep quantity is unaffected because you can fall asleep on time, you're probably good to go. A lot of people look at pre-workouts and they go, oh well, I don't know if it's physical, chemical stuff, it's gotta be bad. Like, okay, how? I'm gonna go, whoa, whoa, there's a lot of chemicals in it. Well, you're made of chemicals. And I just breathe in exclusively chemicals and so did you, if you breathe, if you're not breathing, that's probably a bigger problem. Pre-workouts are totally cool. As long as you don't get into a situation where you're taking a much past two or three PM on your typical day and you're not taking a crap load of them and your caffeine overall isn't excessive, which means coming up to and exceeding a thousand milligrams a day. Which sounds like a lot, but then you look at us some people live their lives and I do. You've been dunking 1500 milligrams for a long time. How do you know if you're using pre-workout right? Because you can be like, I think I'm getting good sleep. I don't know. How do I find this out? So let's find out if your pre-workout uses Gucci or to use moreybonics, not a family. I'm good, Gucci, and not a fan. After you use pre-workout early on the day versus days on what you don't train or don't use pre-workout, do you have more trouble falling asleep? Do you have lower sleep quality? Lower sleep quality typically means that you feel like you've never gotten an in deep sleep. You wake up in the middle of the night and you're like, but I could just like go work right now or something. You typically don't have as many deep dreams or anything like that. That's a definitely situation which your sleep quality is lower. A good way to see if your sleep quality is high, good, not great, but it's better than nothing. If you wake up in the morning you're like, with a, with a, am I? You're like in a crazy dream world, you remember what your name is? That means you're in some deep sleep. If you wake up and you're like, oh, it's still the yesterday or feel the same, probably kind of surface level sleep. And a big question to ask is, can you still have almost as amazing or just as amazing workout sessions without any pre-workout? If the answer is like, actually, I have good workouts one way or the other, the caffeine, stimulant effects of pre-workout probably just aren't worth it. Because there's ways in what you can have stimulants even one or two PM during the day. Almost all the effects are gone, but it still caused you a few hours of slightly lower quality sleep in the beginning of the night, or can delay sleep on set by 15 or 30 minutes typically than normal. Yeah, it's probably not worth it. But if you with pre-workout, can train like a machine without it or really sucks, and you have a sleep checked, well, look, pre-workout is totally fine. It's totally fine, especially if you're not buying wacky stuff with really weird ingredients. Some pre-workouts used to contain and still do contain some sketchy, excessive ingredients. These are mostly stimulants that are sort of not so approved or a question mark or proof for whom you use. The original Jack 3D formula as you all remember in love had DMAA in it, which is like basically math, math, light, sinfron, whoopersine, A, and a few other ingredients that are just like, damn, this is legit. And then they typically feel qualitatively different. They can have unwanted side effects. They can put US-like cardiac risk. They're going to really screw up your sleep and so on, don't mind. So if a pre-workout makes you feel really wacky, consider having less of it. If having less of it still makes you feel wacky, but less, then stop, switch back to like tier coffee or just consider a different pre-workout product. My personal tip to you guys on this is the following. The more hardcore feel and underground feel, the company and the label and the package has, the more often they're likely to have wacky stuff, the big company products are less likely to have it. So, you know, if you have the optimum nutrition pre-workout, that's probably a more dependable go-to and not have weird stuff in it than like the GIS-A-N-A-8 or 5000 or the blood, urine, and super stack 250 max plus. Because blood and urine stack 250 max just wasn't good enough. And you have to have the plus. Scott, imagine the plus comes out, but then another product comes out. It's the all-that. It's the blood and urine super stack 250 max plus hardcore. That's very hardcore. I love the advertising and marketing of use because they're like, it's not for everyone. Careful. You're like really up, but it's for you 15-year-old kid working out for the first week in their life. So stuff like that, a lot of times there's a higher probability, it's going to have some wacky shit in it. What happens if you get into the tolerance trap? How do you get your way out of it? The tolerance trap is basically regular. Hydro-stimulate use can lead to you like getting used to it and then you need it just a function. You need more and you need that just a function and so on and so forth. Same effect you're getting, but you need more and more. A couple options. One, quitting culturek you and learning to train without it. I don't use pre-workout for my workouts. I never have. I just don't need it. Not everyone's like that. A lot of people are, but not everyone's like that. Get your music going, get your real focus, mind, muscle connection, you'd be good to go. Another thing is, if you're training a little less hard every session because you're not in pre-workout, you'll just be able to have longer, muscle cycles, longer strings of weeks in which you train hard and then you'll make the same gains in the long term, which is why in most cases caffeine and stimulants don't actually cause large or even detectable gains in muscle mass in large and longer studies because that instabooce just you could just go longer. It also accumulates more fatigue for you. So you get a better stainless, but also bigger fatigue. And so if you have a little bit of a small stimulus with no pre-workout, but small fatigue, you let me totally go to go. Here's another way to do it. You try some green tea for a month or two. Pre-workout. It works a little bit. Then you try a kind of coffee or diet soda, a little bit more caffeine for a month or two. Then you can do pre-workout, but a lower dose for a month or two. And then moderate dose pre-workout for a month or two after that. Real peak. After that, you're really tired and you're beat up. You've been training for like half a year. You take active rest two weeks of fundamentally no real serious training or no training at all. And then you go back to training without any stimulants at all or you go back to green tea. This way you're accommodating for the fact that your body gets used to it and kind of getting a little bit more over time. And then when you're done, you go on active rest and you don't need extra stimulants because you're basically not training and who cares. Two weeks like that and then two weeks after of training with no stimulants or even two weeks with no stimulants for active rest and then two weeks of like green tea or something, you've recovered a huge, huge margin of not the entirety of your caffeine and stimulant sensitivity and you're going to go through that whole ramp over again. I'm also going to save you some money. It's also going to save you some pain in the ass and you get a really awesome effect without having like pre-workout sending you to the moon week one and week four just feels like your normal weekend. It's always going to be better times ahead. If your pre-workout is no good and you just can't take it because it screws up your sleeve but does some other wacky stuff, no big deal. Try training without it entirely. You can just do tea or coffee because remember coffee is caffeine and it's just the number one ingredient anyway in pre-workouts. A lot of people say a couple of black coffee does them about as much good as pre-workout in many cases. That's true. You can also try citraline nitrates. You can try electrolyte combos like the element drink is really awesome for this. You can do beta alinean and that means there's no stimulants in those things but you get mega pumps and you feel juicy and that's awesome. It's kind of an awesome psychological enhancer and again the pumps probably don't do much. The reason you grow from pumps as pumps probably just associated with the stimulus that you got but if you get extra juicier pumps, psychologically for vibes-wise, it's going to be awesome. Micro a little bit of extra muscle growth and then everyone's winning. That's the situation with pre-workouts. If you need the ultimate pre-workout, I pretty sure it's to download and start using the RPA Pertraphia. What would I know about that? Link in the description for that. Enjoy your pre-workout. Take 50 scoops and then rocket ship yourself to Mars. There you go Elon. All it took was 50 scoops of the Rani Coleman 3D Ultra Extreme mega super pro hardcore not for everyone limited edition series. See you guys next time.

The approximate example here is that kidding your high school, we all had one. Just played video games and ate Snickers bars and had like apps and you're like, I hate you. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here with Renaissance Pre-Dization and today's video asks the question of how lean can somebody get how lean can you get and what are the inputs that go into such a thing? What are the determinants to say how lean you can get? Now the first thing many people will say nice to do a solid time is they'll hear something and they'll say, well it's drugs, Dr. Mike, you just take drugs and you get lean and that's what determines lean, this is how many drugs you take and this is actually not true. There is a common misconception almost exclusively within people who do not compete in bodybuilding in the misconception is that natural bodybuilders cannot get as lean as people who are using drugs in bodybuilding and that's false. If you pay attention to the sport of real natural bodybuilding drug free, you will realize that drug free bodybuilders get limit lean, psychotically, non-sensically lean. If you need someone to look to for that example just go and Instagram and type in Marvin physique, Marvin the Martian from Hong Kong, good friend of ours here at the channel and he's draw life time drug free. He's he weighs he's five nine anyways, 154 pounds before he started accusing him of drug use for over that and he's his lean as anyone could ever hope to be it's insane he has like lutes on his face it's really strange. So there's tons of other examples Peter Fitchen comes to mind, you can Google him, a bunch of people he coaches come to mind outrageously natural is absolutely possible. There is no drug that makes you leaner as a matter of course there is no drug that can make you leaner than an adjusted properly adjusted calorie deficit and good diet can make you. The only question is how much muscle do you have at the end of that process? If you diet to get ultra lean drug free because you're not taking anabolic and other or good-genic drugs you will not be as big muscularly before you start that diet as someone who was taking the drugs and also on the way down to getting as lean as possible you will lose more muscle than someone who is actually taking tons of drugs. So you may be weigh 165 pounds whereas your theoretical counterpart and alternate universe that's identical in every way except that they you took drugs in that universe weighs 200 pounds you can be just as lean on stage in both situations. So that is the deal now of course being 165 lean on stage versus 200 lean on stage the whole process involved with that is a way healthier if you do not take drugs so remember that big upside there is health it's not actually lean. So if you want to take drugs to get as lean as possible you have to understand if you don't actually need drugs to get as lean as possible. If you want to take drugs to be as muscular as possible you get a level of leanness then yes that is something that drugs can do. So if it's not drugs that we're going to be talking about here that's out of the way. We have five other reasons at least that determine how far you can go in your personal journey should you choose to take it all of getting as lean as you can and the first one is genetics. And interestingly enough in most circumstances outside of one which is appetite genetics. The genetic proclivity to store fat is not a huge determinant of how lean you can get because of how powerful the other factors we are going to discuss in a minute are. But genetics so to put this another way if you start it out with suboptimal genetics and you kind of just a little bit thicker and chunkier by default. Let's say you carry a 20% body fat just at your normal level your athletic you train you eat well just 20% that's what you are as a male 30% as a female with applying the other variables that we're going to talk about you actually can probably get strided with. How difficult that is for you is going to be very different how long it's going to take is going to be very different. So while that's a true statement it's also true statement to say that people with good genetics for being lean can get very very lean with much less work. The approximate example here is that kid in your high school we all had one who was like 16 years old didn't lift weights just played video games and eight snickers bars and had like abs clear six pack and bicep veins and he were like what that's where you start your life and then you know he decides to get into body will do when he's 22 and four weeks later he has stride a glutes and you're like I hate you. Ducks your Jackson famous example up until he was in his late 30s I believe he had already one tons of pro shows been to the Olympic a bunch of times he has never did cardio he just did do cardio he had not done cardio and he would die if I think like a six to eight weeks he would just clean up his diet and voila glutes strations have been two weeks contest conditioning within six to eight that's a real thing that's a real thing that's genetics. Second thing that determines how lean you can get is how long your fat loss phase is some people will do six weeks or eight weeks of fat loss dieting and you know half a percent or one percent of loss per week and it would be like oh man I got pretty lean but she was I wish I'd get leaner we could just die it longer up to 12 weeks of dieting can make a really really big change and a lot of times people in contrast prep for bodybuilding they'll do 14 or 16 weeks of prep sometimes 20 weeks of prep well 20 weeks of fat loss dieting is tough they're tough and very perilous for your probability to just rebound and get fat again but if you handle those concerns well you know people see that your transformation from offseason but you're showing you like oh my god how did you do it it's a what if you die it for 20 weeks losing 0.75 percent of your body weight each week on average you're gonna get a lot leaner it's kind of a no brainer but it must be sad like yeah this is how it happens and people ask you if you're really good at dart throwing and ask you how do you get so good at dart throwing like the chances obviously yes you have genetic and proclivity to be more accurate at short distances fine motor skill is very good fine motor control but also like you probably practice start throwing a while and they could after you practice anything a while you get pretty fun good at it right next and more importantly did a determinant of how lean you can be and this is the most meat one of the most real world things to say in this lecture is how many fat loss phase maintenance or even a little bit of massing in their phase sequences can you stack together over the long term because if you start at a 20 percent fat and you get down to a 14 percent fat to a nice long hard fat loss phase you're a lot leaner than you were but you're not objectively very lean for a male you're like you know like a flat I can healthy and everything's great look great but you could say to yourself after that that loss phase right you know maintenance and you say jeezing I don't know how to contest body builders do it I don't know how really lean people do it I just whole fat loss phase and I'm like where am I I'm like still 14 percent no but a lot of set you take two three four months in a maintenance phase maybe even a slow massing phase you restart your next fat loss phase at 16 percent body fat and you end up a 12 percent after that well significantly leaner maintain maintain maintain the next fat loss phase takes you to 9 percent I know it's possible because I've done this multiple times with people and a bunch with myself if you just don't mess up to the same percent body fat every time you do a fat loss phase if you can even shave off one net percent body fat in each one of those cycles hopefully something like two or three percent per macro cycle after a while because you never quite come up to the old level at your hat you can get really really lean and you can find yourself in a position where you're a 10 percent body fat at the end of a maintenance phase and you're like I think I'm in a position where I get show lean and you may very well be so a lot of times people look at people who are really mean here's the whole point of this part of the talk and they go oh my god that's crazy that's like I so mean out I just thought that's not in me a lot of how many sequential phases of fat loss half they gone through a lot of contrast body moving to report especially their later years in their late 30s and early 40s that are getting lean to them is actually very easy at this point because they've done it so much because they just never get very fatting in after their show when like you get down to 4% for a bodybuilding show you can eat like a fucking pig for two months and come up to 9% and they're like run out of room to eat I got to want to eat anymore I'm still have veins in my abs and a semblance of glute detail from the side this is just my life now but you earned that life because you did so many months and years of sequencing fat loss phase maintenance and mass fat loss phase maintenance and mass and that maintenance and mass doesn't come up to where that last fat loss phase took the fat off of you so that it's a net loss by a small margin every single time you structure enough of that together and all of a sudden it's like yeah I think about a few arustler and you went to a two week wrestling camp during the summer it's going to make you way better arustling for sure but how much better can one wrestling camp really make you not much how much better can one fat loss phase make you a much leader plenty but you know something it can't hold on to but if you do like four wrestling camps in a given season you're going to be a stud just the same way if you do four sequenced fat loss mass phase maintenance repeat and each one is two to three percent lower in body fat she was you know two years later you're going to be like 8% body fat lower just walking around that is one hell of a way to get really really lean it's the secret so make sure that you know that then if you ever doubt yourself about well I can't never get as lean it's not all one shot you don't start at 30% body fat and you're like what I just got to get to his lean as I can and that's all I can get ah ah that maintenance phase at the end the little slow mass means you don't have to come back up to the level of body fat used to be and the next diet is easier and easier and so on but easier not psychologically easier if you get better results with it your leaner everything will time next concern point number four in determining how lean you want to get is how much muscle you want to trade off this is point that's pertinent especially to folks in competitive bodybuilding folks that are trying to get really lean for holidays or something like that like for the summer everyone reaches at some point this maybe four or six weeks out where their training is not of a very high quality anymore it's uh many not slipping but it's like my training could be better if I ate more food my training could be better if I slowed down my rate of loss I would not get as a little bit weaker during the end of prep as I could be and that's a fork in the road if you choose to go right and you eat a little bit more slow nine rate of loss you're gonna get very lean and you're gonna keep all of your muscle and it's gonna be amazing if you take the fork in the road that leads left you're going to lose potentially a little bit of muscle you can get back all of it within weeks after the items and you go back into an intelligent massing phase so don't worry about not long-term loss but if short-term you can sacrifice a little bit of strength and a little bit of fullness you can continue that deficit and you will get fucking lean to a level that you thought oh yeah this is crazy I did this at my last show where I got nice and dry for the first time in my life and lean enough to where I started the diet at some point around 240 pounds I was on stage at 2,16,217-pew. That's really small I did not like seeing I stopped those scales to 16.5 or something and I was like fuck I'm tiny but oh my god was I shredded to the fucking book do you want to get lean or not? Ideally would you get lean and be like big Romney where he's too 90 on stage yes but you might not have that for the other reasons you're in at extorges etc and thus if you really want to get lean and you're willing to trade off a little bit of short-term muscle and strength it'll be worth it is what I'm trying to say because you'll get so much leaner that the overall look will be like wow if you see guys that's per if you're into competitive body then you see guys pretty lean but not very very lean you're like oh I got it's great how much does he weigh 220 great you see you got this very very lean and it turns out he weighs 207 you don't ask him for his body weight you don't care because if you walk down on stage and actually got it's pretty lean you're like there's one guy in the show and that's the lean guy first place get out of here nobody cares how much you weigh when you're that lean it's worth it it's worth it for that last little bit this is a lesson I wish I knew 10 years ago when I started body building formally in competing I wish I knew that that extra bit of muscle loss at the end and strength loss was worth that insane huge difference in stage look training for muscle growth is never going to be the same lastly the last variable to determine how likely is it that you're going to get very lean is of course psychology and it's a really really big one not everyone has it in them at any given point in the life to push hard and long in a deficit to push hard and long in sequential deficits that are separated by maintenance and or massing phase another thing about psychology is how bad your appetite gets ravit as appetite can really just prevent you from getting into that last weird low single-digit area which is like a strange bizarre world the thing is appetite is mostly genetic as well so that actually goes back up to genetics but nowadays we have drugs like some agglotite and tris appetite that can probably just knock that out and it's not really a concern anymore so back to that in most cases not all some genetically you have to people really can just get insanely lean with minimal effort or they just locked out that their appetite isn't that high so just kind of like train and eat high protein foods and voila they have stridey foods but in most cases the people who get extremely and in almost all cases the people who started out not very lean to get extremely lean they're just very mentally resilient so if you ever asked like when how does that guy so lean a part of the answer is I got fucking balls as balls have balls and I girl she's got all reason to operate some shit like that it just takes a lot and it pays off and it's not the kind of teeth grinding resilience like I'm gonna do this it's more of an ability to remain calm as the world around them crashes apart they feel like they don't have any energy that's okay I didn't expect that energy I feel a little loopy and lost at work that's okay I frontloaded most of my work for because I knew the last four weeks is gonna be terrible they're training they're not as strong as they used to be that's okay I know that I've calculated this trade off 2.4 I'm willing to trade it off it's okay that I'm not I very best in every other area of life and then I'm entering into this very dark desperate world of exotic leanness and I can you know what is that like Christian prayer like yay she'll walk through the valley of the whatever the fuck and not be whatever because God's got my back you know I'm saying that shit I said wisdom you gotta have that shit to go in with you because shit will get really hard and the people that survive that to end up on the other side lean a shit they can be calm and relaxed when everything around them and inside them is screaming stop the diet this isn't worth it you don't want to get this leave if you can do that if you're genetics are decent if you can do it over the long term with multiple sequential phases you too Mr viewer miss is viewer miss viewer and miss mss viewer can get much much much leaner than you think and I'll leave you with that and see you guys next time you

Resist up three one more go slow slow slow slow slow slow slow go go go Not a baby you got two more ends now. We got two reps Yo, what up this me doctor Mike Jared feather I feed pro and I was a deer we need somebody on the channel, but there's gotta be a few things bikini training lower body But um he's like well a lot of her her her her her and I was like somebody with an old school British name like some 19 20 some Titanic type shit and Miss Evelyn here Is oh so fancy my word Evelyn darling You feeling good? I'm feeling great and that's the last time you're gonna say that shit from the next hour hit it All right so that's what you think a sumo squad is No, that's that's tying your shoes. I'm not a star. That's not a sumo spot. This is a really good So one thing I'll say whenever people sumo squad is that They hear sumo and they think wide stance a wide stance squat and sumo spots a little different put your feet a little more narrow And then point your toes out a little more and then it's gonna come from the hips so your knees always track outward So basically push it out your knee out towards your pinky to open your hips a whole bunch More open your hips yeah open your hips open your hips Up So as you start to squat down really force your hips open it's gonna be uncomfortable on us Open even more even more even more out out out now. Yes. Yeah, sumo squad exercise number one The position here is toes out Really letting your feet come out as you go down and pushing your butt as far back as possible to get that big stretch on the glutes We like a slowy centric we like a positive the bottom to really accentuate the eccentric and the stretch load of position Which are very very tied up herrophy Accentuate top and the squeeze is not a whole lot there that causes a ton of muscle growth not nearly as much as a big deep stretch and a slowy centric These are brutal most people think they can do a lot of weight until they do it properly and they can now they do a lot of weight Nor is it feeling any fun, but your glutes get huge and you go to the grocery store and you're like And the boys are like oh my god is that light really? Not gas real I'm real unreal moment Do you want to like do it you're like yeah, what if I do it? Okay fine Anyway, let's go turn Sometimes I miss Mike Really that's your area. What's my call me my I'm very tired so call me dad. Oh fuck off You keep not enough, but the reps keep coming let's go big chest slow great control Slow One more down This is a work set this is reality Evelyn deal with a big chest sit back Right here stand up right here go right here use your body Big chest go Slow Deep Pause Oh You Good job Power all power on Take a little break we'll hit it again We're right here like you fail you failed the worst thing is it happens you're gonna go like this So try to keep your boots under you like this and avoid it Okay, and if you have to do this Try to just push your boots back there and if you can't come up This is you're just gonna be here and you're fine and we'll just pick it up off okay Go to two more down down nobody said rest down right now. We're gonna slow knees out Chest stop Stand up believe in yourself Holy Jared and I'm not gonna help you one more get it together one more stop notting no come on We're no negativity zone positivity only big chest you walk back slow You can do this you can do this wait Fast strong Oh yeah, right Dude I'm really good The training bikini girls a long time You are one of the fucking rare Girls that can push this hard You weren't you weren't kidding and so on the next sets I want you to go to that place again. You know when you start notting no We want you to think now the mud starts Okay now I can do more because if you can't stand up we just got you we got to We just pull it right out and not getting hurt the worst of the happens you have plugs hurt like shit And you're running a bear your toughest fucking nails Let me tell you guys about some above being tough when you're training It doesn't matter how much you scream you can not scream or you can scream a top you You cry doesn't mean you're not tough or that you're pushing yourself in the you are tough You could cry or not crying doesn't matter What really makes you tough and training is this is when the reps get really fucking hard and your whole body is not And you're coach or your inner demons or whatever it hells around Dr. Marika my RPA hurts fayette says do another one do two more do three more you vote You know yes, yes, I don't care I don't care I will fucking die here of course dies metaphoric Somebody fucking dying in the gym. I will push myself to my limits because I want Assension more than I want to just stay the same that's tough Whatever doesn't matter how much you look thing 50 pounds 500 pounds when it's one more rep in the fucking tank One more rep loaded in to the clip you fucking do it and then you do it again and you do it again Because you don't care if you've ever died you just care one more rep that's tough This everyone this real tough it's actually quite impressive and she's way tough with me. I already said it for you can make fun of you now Let's go do actual RAR train T And one more one last one hit it yeah, I like that grimace. Let's go slow open open Being just wait A fast go go one more bonus round one more. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, hit it right now No rest slow. We're here to get a rope a ball fucking day Stand up stand up stand up. Right. Oh my god. That's so robust Somebody try in the day How f*** so good Guys You Next up we are going to do good mornings Which means it's a stiff leg of the lift with a bar on your back So you're taking a nice comfortable stance feet shoulder with the part toes a little bit out You're gonna push your butt back and you're gonna take your butt hole and show it to the corner Between the ceiling in the back wall Who's like that you keep your chest up your tummy out and your knees are gonna want to go forward But you're gonna want to push him back Pain and the hamstrings is how you know this right? If you need more pain you push your knees back more butt back more arch your chest up more and it's gonna be everything slow in the way down Quick any what sets to on the world sets of five to ten I can talk at promise to my job sets of five to ten reps Evelyn is beyond warmed up so we're just gonna get her and a higher first set right away. Knees stable Up one last one hit it Fuff back. There you go. He's back. One of them. He's back. One inch lower and it holds for a second and then up Good job Solid I'll just feel that in your hamstrings. Yeah, yeah, yeah good good yeah good So what do you do to like staying shape? Knees yeah knees back Yeah Beautiful two more Two last ones here. Let's go Push the butt back as far as you can and then knees back to knees back more Yes, up one last one hit it. I want this one deep and I want you to hold it for a second at the bottom begin Go go go go go go go go That's tough knees back deep come on Big now hold hold hold and up Rack George a Celia Just awesome. Hell yeah good stuff. That was very humbling. You do great Oh Hey guys Everyone's doing great Sumo squats good mornings now it's pain time as if that was Lungus with a barbell Jared's gonna warm her up right now and then we'll get to it The thing with walking lunges how Jared does them which is the better way You focus on using your back leg only as a pivot and anchor Just so you don't fall in all of the load Go through that front leg or as much of it as possible why Because the front leg here is the one getting the glute stretch This is where the glute high perch becomes from the back leg. It's a supporting leg So we're gonna have her stay nice and upright Slowly come down all the way using that front leg So you're gonna be looking at me why she's struggling and then she can do a few more reps But she was struggling mostly it's because on the few reps that she started to struggle She was queuing her front leg only and that's really hard Then she pushed more of the back leg you got easier. We're gonna re-cute her for that front leg So you're gonna be getting multiple approaches to failure for the glutes which is amazing Oh Stretch Like only no back leg assistance there it is yeah I Fun Good stuff you're going up more weights consider that a long warm up This is gonna be much heavier. You're gonna do with the exact same way Again right away no rest I Go ahead again go go go go go go go go Again Don't speed them up Your core is too slow. Yeah, let's go and Up Not how we got it here. That's uh it's uh right mark I'm not gonna have your weight yeah, it's your big it was like 80 reps so much fuck super strong Oh I feel that's 25 difference oh it's 90 just kidding Good right away go come on. Well leg make him hurt Good right away go go go go go go go go go Good again go go go go no nodding no nodding just go slow Yeah Again couple more reps in your done. He's definitely Make an harden yourself That's why you're here. Up yes exactly again go great yes go go go two more steps in your done slow Up one last one go Slow I'm gonna put a leg no bullshit Fuck yeah Like press Open open open Keep going keep going keep going keep going Cut and hand this up Lungers are done. I was brutal tough to watch easy to coach last exercise is going to be the leg press Just two sets here with a little RP patented Squat roll shit don't tell it afterwards of course and She got damn she works hard. She's gonna be tough sets of uh 10 to 20 reps probably my rep Been on the channel before you know how it is if you haven't stay tuned because this is going to hurt So many reps as you can do wait three or four seconds breathe a little bit of patop and then more Probably two my rep breaks like that with any set two sets total would grab her get her out Have her do some super more squat and we hit those boots a little bit more at the very end Ouch There it is keep in there two in your done go Slow slow Press go One more one more one more again begin Hit it slow Slow slow control pause up up up up up up up up up go go Oh It's really hard as soon as this set coming up is over I want you to get up as quick as possible It's gonna be very hard. I want you stand right over here. I'll show you again And you're gonna face that when you're gonna take your sumo squat position and you're gonna have your hands up And you're gonna do as many squats as it takes to get those happy feelings back inside Okay My little shaking oh no Down go go Big chest Deep Athletic good rest breathe Get down there and then two in your done hit it Resist slow Yes Press one more down right away down right away slow slow slow slow slow control pause and wait Up go Fair enough. Let's go That's good. Get out. They're good Up You're so fucking strong slow Which hard go oh shit again go slow slow slow Slow push in to me again down go slow resist resist wait Push hard again down almost there. I want four more good reps Up Down slow Up Slow resist Resist don't pause in the top up You can read one more go slow slow slow slow slow go go go go no nobody you got two more reps now you got two reps Up Down slow slow Wait don't go anywhere Don't go anywhere Not Share that rebel shit. She's like I get away from me. I need you Amazing I've heard worse You know you made I'm gonna go ahead and say 99% of the body Well, just that they're on the channel look really bad good job. Thank you. I gave up so many My head sometimes. Yes, everybody does but you got back into it. That's the only thing that matters Oh, it's brutal There's really good you wanted to get a session for a while was it yeah, to the standard that you expect it Very humbling very humbling experience for sure. You think you know You think you know what you got I love it You have been amazing. Thank you wonderful warrior goddess type shit Jared what do you think yeah? I was awesome Don't forget to turn around the mean anytime Yes, thank you. You know me. Don't treat with me because you train way harder than me I would humble me. I am not trying to get humble Folks, that's all we got for you. See you next time

Hey folks, Dr. Mike Israel here for Renaissance Periodization. Today's video is about how to increase the number of push-ups you can do when everything else has failed. When basic and even what I would call intermediate advice just hasn't really produced results for you, this is kind of like the tip of the spear of more advanced piritization to get your push-ups increased. Our problem here, which is why I'm watching this video, is that you want to do more push-ups, but lately in the last several months you haven't been able to add a single notch or just one push-up per several months, nothing great. You want to do more push-ups. Maybe it's, you know, you've been doing around 30 reps, but you want to be able to do around 35 reps or push-ups in a single set. Maybe it's you haven't been able to go from 15 reps to anything bigger in like a year. Maybe you're going from zero ever push-ups to finally your first push-up. We got all the answers in here for how to make the changes. And when I say conventional attempts have failed to produce results, I mean stuff like first of all, just training hard. As if you go on YouTube comments, you go on much of social media, and you ask, hey man, like, is anyone having any push-up tips? How do I get better push-ups? And someone's like, just train hard, bro. Like, hey, thanks a lot. I'll go try that. You go try it. It doesn't work. A lot of times it does. In this case, for you, it hasn't, which is why I still have a problem. You've already tried doing different grip positions for push-ups. Didn't seem to help. You've tried weighted push-ups. It's a common helping thing, a helpful suggestion. You've tried sets of one to two push-ups at a time. If you've only been able to do a few push-ups, and people say, I'll just do sets of one to two. You've tried eccentric push-ups where you lower yourself with your own power, but then you get on your knees to come back up. They can make getting when more quality to work possible when you're just not very strong in push-ups. And you've tried partial push-ups, which is when you push up to a mat or something and you don't have to go as deep as normal, it essentially lifts your upper body off the ground, your feet are still on the ground, so the angle is lower, so it's easier. You've tried these things individually, and they seem to have not produced results. So you want to improve your push-up ability and you want to take a serious attempt at. This video will be describing to you and giving you sample programming of what a serious attempt looks like, and it's going to take months to actually play out. And you could say, hold on, months with that, what the fuck? I had to be better push-ups like tomorrow or next week or next month. Certainly not months plural, but the thing is, is because you've tried the conventional attempts, it's just not going to work for you to do a quick easy trick. Quick easy tricks usually work for people who kind of have their gains coming anyway, and they're doing something obviously wrong, like not training hard, but you're already doing that. So you're not doing anything obviously wrong. And at the end of the day, you need something effective to actually be able to use and chip away at whatever gains you have coming to you. Say this again in the end, you may not get a crap load of push-ups out of the scheme, but you'll very likely be able to hit some decent PRs. You're not in the running for those PRs if you don't really care. Forward this video to someone you hate and then move along, just kidding. Someone you love, someone you're totally neutral to. That's even better. Here's the outline of how this periodization structure is going to work. First, you're going to want to put on pushing muscle. What the hell does that mean? It means your chest shoulders and triceps are going to want to get bigger. First, why? Because a lot of the reason that people can't get better at push-ups is they've gotten very good, technically it push-ups, their nervous system has integrated their ability to do the push-up motion very athletically and very well, but they're just kind of out of raw material as far as forced generating capacity of muscle to do anything better. If you get a V6 Honda Civic, my preferred vehicle, of choice, of course, and you tune it all to shit at some point, is you get in the most you can out of a V6. Then if you're like, I still want to go faster, someone's going to be like, I think you need a V8 or a V10 man, I think at the end of the road here for V6 that you're running. There are a lot of people make kind of a mistake and say, hey, I want to get more better push-ups and someone's like, hey, what about growing your pecks and triceps? They're like, not a bodybuilder, I just want to do more push-ups and it's like, you ever see people that can do a lot of push-ups? They generally have pretty stacked, chush shoulder triceps and they thought by axe. The second phase is for you to develop what's called basic strength and solid technique in push-ups, which is really, really important because yes, you could have big and strong muscles, much like myself, of course. But you have to practice making sure that those muscles are performing as well as they can for the task of doing push-ups. While you may use a variety of exercises to build your pecks in this first phase, the exercise is used to get your pecks ready to give you the best push-up result possible, maybe at least exercises that biomechanically load the pecks in a similar way, or the technique moves your body through a similar way, it's just more specificity. And lastly, you're going to want to take a little bit of a peaking phase, which usually lasts just a few weeks, maybe a month, to peak for push-ups specifically because you don't want to try to peak when you're not super ready. Imagine that imagine, you don't have to imagine. I've had people tell me this kind of stuff. I try to do a bunch of push-ups yesterday and I try to go all the way to failure with good form. I can't PR. I'm like, I gotcha. How did you warm up? I sort of didn't. I just kind of went and did them. Okay, that's fucking dumb. What was your training like in the last week? Well, actually, the day before I was like super, an unbelievable chest and tricep workout. Okay, so you're so entired from chest and triceps. And you didn't warm up. And you were surprised that you couldn't do more push-ups than I like. In retrospect, no, I got exactly. So if you're going to do all this work of making your chest, triceps bigger, of taking those muscles and the nervous system, making them really good at doing push-ups, you might as well take that last peaking phase, which is the smallest fraction of the whole thing, and tailor your ability to perform push-ups and drop your fatigue in such a way that, on that day, that you're going to test your ability to do push-ups with good technique, you're going to put yourself in the best possible position to have a PR. Otherwise, it's kind of strange. You know, when they get the whole space shuttle or whatever the fuck they're Elon Musk rockets, they're sending to space now, you know, yeah, it takes like a fucking year to make one of them shifts. It's not like they're like, all right, let's launch the guys like, when? I don't know, Tuesday, the at-to-says fine. Let's check my phone. Oh, I got nothing going on. What's the weather like? Bucket. It's not our satellite, shoot it up there, fucking thunderstorm knocks it out, $2 billion just falls back down to Earth useless. They don't do shit like that. They plan ahead. They even check the weather to make sure it's going to be good, and they do a last call for the weather. Sure, you don't have to check the weather for your push-ups, unless you're doing it outside, California muscle beach, as opposed to then you don't have to check the weather also because it's never rains in southern California. And if you're into really, really good music, Google that, at a type of one here I'm deleting. Google that, but make sure you Google it never ends the Southern California comma, and any way you spell Tony is correct. Is the group that's saying that song best is a group called Tony Tony Tony, they're from the 80s and 90s. They're like grand parents now, and they're phenomenal, and that's Tony spelled three different ways. Believe it's three African American gentlemen who are named Tony, I don't call me on that. Unbelievable song. In any case, here we go. Phase one is putting on pushing musculature. We want to do this for several mesocycles, which means like two to four months. Why? Because it takes two to four months to add an appreciable amount of muscle size to your frame, appreciable enough that it actually reflects itself in increased push-up performance. Like if you're sitting in the second seat, the back seat of a fighter plane, I'm a center stick, I don't have 22. And you're like, hey, can we go faster? The pilot's writing you around. He's not going to be like, oh yeah, take the throttle and go, just push it up a little. You're like, it's technically that's faster. You don't want to do a bunch of training in the middle of the camp. I had to push up PR by half a rep. You want to be able to like PR by a few reps or more, which means you're going to need more muscle to do that. We don't want to construct to take your six cylinder engine and construct half a cylinder, and be like, oh there you go, it's a smaller cylinder, it adds power, but a little bit. We want to get another, we want to get two more cylinders, and they're making it a real V8. So it's going to take a couple of months. Again, if you're like, dude, fuck all those couple of months bullshit, I gotta get to push up now. We have tons of way at least two other pushup videos about how to get better pushups fast. And this ain't one of them. So if you're in the front long haul, this is sweet, then you're good for an anyway. During this time, you're going to focus on exercises that add a lot of muscle to the chest shoulder triceps and do it not in a way that is exactly related to pushup, but at least hit similar muscles from some similar directions. Not all because we need to keep variation high early in this plan, because as we go through the plan, our variation is going to go down. The different kinds of exercises we're going to use are going to look more and more and more like pushups until they're kind of just pushups, standard, periodization model. So you're going to be doing bench presses, dumbbell presses, deficit pushups, skull crushers, other triceps work like dips and push downs are plies well, pack flies, and skull crush are pushups for the very advances of consideration I would give to you. And that's I have demonstrated in one of our pushup videos. It's when you have a close grip on a pushup and instead of using your chest and triceps to push up, you leverage yourself back so that you push with your face between your hands and then you extend. It's a skull crusher like the equivalent of what a pushup is to the bench press. This is that equivalent to a skull crusher. It's ruthless. Your share is hell doing a lot of pushups if you can do one of these, but it's a great assistant exercise to help you increase the muscular area of a chyisps, which will not directly make you get it pushups, but later when we reach each that muscle, how to do pushups, it'll be a lot better because it's going to be bigger. This part of the plan is a very similar for people of all levels. Because remember, we have three levels, folks that are struggling to do their first couple pushups, even their first, folks that are like that 15 range or so, and then people that are in the 30s, 40s, 50s plus, and it works for all of them because you need more muscle to do more pushups no matter what. Now, if you're doing 80 pushups in a row, more muscle might not help you much because you're kind of in an endurance sport, but we're going to scoot those people aside and say, good job, you're doing well anyway. Maybe someday I'll make a video for people who want to do hundreds of pushups. We can call up 300 pushups tomorrow. Fucking sell my soul for this bullshit clickbait. In any case. All right, so this phase is similar for everyone, and it looks something like this. This is a sample plan. I'm not going to talk about it much because I could just read off the fucking screen or I can let you guys do it. So feel free to pause the shit. Take a look at it. What we're going to notice is it's 40s a week of pushing mostly sets of five to 15, five to 20 reps. That's going to build a lot of muscle size in the chest and shoulders and triceps. And it's lots of variation. That's one of the ways that you can train. So often is the volumes are pretty small per session. It's only two exercises at a time. And the variation is so high that you kind of do in something different every session, which means there's no super high risks just burning completely out. Now for full disclosure, I can't do this because my muscles take longer to heal. So I might be able to do this like two or three times a week, but you can do it up to four times a week. And if you're responsive, this is great. There are no set numbers next to these because set numbers are individual based on can you recover by the next time you're doing this? If you can and easily add a set here or there. If you can't, take a set of way or keep it stable. It's just that simple. Ideally, you want to recover just on time. So for example, if you got the Tuesday workout and the Thursday workout, after the Tuesday workout, Wednesday, you should kind of be like, oh, pucks a little slow tender, try a little tired. And then Thursday, you should be like, all right, man, I'm fucking golden. I'm super strong. That's how you determine volume. Super easy. All right. Now let's say everyone got through phase one, which took a few months. And everyone has bigger thresholds and triceps. The muscles critical to being able to do pushups. Phase two is going to look a little bit different for how strong you are. First one, I'm going to talk about is phase two for folks that can do between zero and four total pushups. It's just a big deal. Doing your first pushup or getting three or four pushups is a post to last time you tried you just could get one. That's arguably way more relatively impressive in the soul than it is like, you know, to go from 15 to 16 or something like that. So first, you are going to design a plan that makes your muscles better at the target rep range you eventually want to hone in on. So for these folks, it's going to be a lot of sets of three to six reps sets of even Monday to reps, now on occasion, because that's what you want to get really good at. You're still going to use plenty of variation. And you're going to approach the target rep range from both above and below, which means some days of the week during this plan. Let's say you're really gearing in to do five pushup reps as an example. It's a zero to four pushup. Three pushup reps. Some days of the week, maybe one day of the week, you'll be doing lots of sets of one to two pushups, maybe heavy, maybe loaded, maybe some a little bit harder, maybe to a deficit, tougher than normal. And then another time you're going to be doing maybe sets of all five or six pushups, which is a little lower, a little higher. And then maybe you'll have one day of the week, which hits close to that target. That way, it keeps stale this down, because I just try to do sets of three all the time. Well, burn you a fuck out guaranteed, but it keeps you so close to the actual thing that you want, that it's all Gucci and you're going to get a really good training response and eventually bring yourself to a state where you're ready to peak and really show off. Additionally, the exercises included in this phase versus the last phase phase one, what you should do in exercise that kind of made you sort of resemble that pushups a little pit some of the same muscles, but this phase now is more seriously looking at stuff like, okay, how much like a pushup is this, getting it a little bit more specificity to pushups, even so much as reintroducing pushups themselves. One big thing you'll notice is that, oh back to that plan here. If you look at the plan from the last slide, there actually is very little actual pushups being done, as a matter of fact, zero. The closest thing is on Thursday, there's a deficit weighted pushup, but a deficit pushup is different. The regular pushup stops at a different point that total duration of the pushup is different where your muscles are taught to reengage and push back up versus slowing the eccentric is different as well. So we're really getting away from pushups altogether and now we're going to start reintroducing them at least exercise look a lot like them, deficits and partial pushups, but definitely a chance to do pushups themselves. We're for sure going to do lots of pushups themselves in phase three, the peaking phase, but we're going to save that for just a little while from now. One of the big benefits of leaving pushups the hell out of that first few phases is it really allows you to reduce the stailness and also the psychological toughness of pushups because if you've been stuck at a lift for a long time, a specific lift, pushups, pullups, call it low bar squats, doing that lift psychologically, fucking awful because you're like, here I go, being fucking weak again, not hitting PRs again, but a lot of times you've trained that lift so much, trying to get it to go up, which is smart on your part, because specificity is a big deal, you end up just kind of overreaching on that lift and it becomes really stale for you and it just aggravates you physically psychologically. So by moving away from it, you can really, really, really build some awesome muscle while at the same time making that lift in this case, the pushups super fresh when you come back. And as you guys all know, new begames are a real thing. So if you're making fresh pushup gains with now bigger muscles, that's a fucking big deal. All right, phase two for the folks able to do zero to four pushups currently and want to do a few more. On Monday, you'll see that we are going heavy in bench press, which is unrelated. And on Wednesday, we're going heavy in knee pushups to a really big deficit. On top of that, we are doing some lighter work after all those, could we go high and low like we will with the other groups of folks? Yes, the thing is zero to four reps, there's not much to be gained from going low, because it's just super stressful, low volume max attempts. So most of the folks that are in that zero to four pushup group, they need a bit more repetitions and volume simply because it will add more muscle mass and continue to add muscle mass even through this phase and give them lots of practice at these pushup and pressing movements. So notice a big thing is that the volume is lower because the overall frequency is lower. This is harder training now, much more focused training and they're stronger and bigger from their last phase. It's three days a week and Friday, you'll see there's only skull crushers because we want to give the chest and shoulders a little bit of a break so you can come back fresh next Monday and hit bigger and bigger numbers. Phase two for folks that can do sets of five to ten pushups and want to do more like maybe 15 or something like that. Still exactly the same approach as for the other folks, except much more of a distinct high low pattern, which means if you look at the sample plan on Mondays, these folks will do sets of three to six reps. That's lower than five to ten on average if you keep in count. And then on Wednesday, these individuals will do some other work that's in sets of 10 to 15. So we got a low and we got a high Friday if you're good at guessing, it's sets of five to 10 actual pushups at one to two reps and reserve and it's competition style slash cadence, which means you are pretending that there is a video camera and I'm one of our stopwatcher a metronome and someone's counting. You do the pushups exactly like you plan to do them in competition, which means no bullshit, no intentionally slower e-centrics. Boop, boop, boop, however you do competition pushups, that's how you want to do them because here begins two things. One great, right, we got a low, we got high, we got right in the middle, so we checked that's the middle five to ten. But also we're getting ready to really configure our abilities for pushups specifically. And of course after that, we'll do some score crushers and get the fuck out. That's not a very hard day Friday. It's a little bit more of a little bit of a stimulus. Drop some fatigue for low volume and sharpen the tip of our spear a little bit more for pushups every single week. Now, folks who are in that 30 plus range, like I said earlier, 30 is just a kind of a place holder for really high reps you can do anywhere between 10 and 50 plus reps and all these upcoming examples work. Again, the basic outline is the same. You're going to design a plan that hits into that target rep range a little bit above, a little bit below right at. We're going to be doing a little bit more specific training and more pushup like movements including pushups themselves. So on Monday is our slightly heavier day for these folks sets of 10 to 2015 to 2020. And on Wednesday, it sets of 15 to 20 and 30 to 40, so we're going over what we typically do. And then on Friday, we have a more challenging version than a regular pushup, so it's a deficit pushup for sets of 15 to 20, which will buck you up really bad. And skull crushers are now for sets of 30 to 40 repetitions. Why? Well, because you need triceps endurance to do lots of pushups and triceps endurance with high repetition skull crushers, that's just how you get the job done is going to suck yes. Are people going to be confused looking at you? Yes. Is it going to hurt? Oh, yes. Are you going to get to a place where you're doing pushups and you're trying to sub-sunt cramping anymore? Absolutely. Which is great. All right. Lastly is peaking. Peaking is about building a plan that gets you the performance you want when you want. As nobody gives a shit if you do XYZ pushups, a loss that's on TikTok. And if you can do more reps than TikTok video limit allows, you win TikTok. Your gift is the Chinese government takes over your life. Maybe I'm kidding, maybe I'm not. In any case, if you want to take this really seriously and I suppose yes you do because here you are watching this video about very seriously taking pushups, you want to say about four weeks total, including your last week just before you test the pushups. And generally speaking, these peaks are going to look like if you're between zero and four reps for pushups, you're going to peak a lot like a power lifter does. If you're in that five to ten range, you'll peak more like a strong man so you can do like 15 reps or something. And if you're in the ten plus plus range, which means like shit, you know, out there in the 30s, you will have an interesting peak that looks a bit different than most of the stuff you've seen before, but the common core because you may not want to use these sample programs. You may want to make your own program, which is almost always a better idea. So intellectually you want to know what the common core is for what peaking looks like for all of these things. And here it is first, as the competition gets closer, you're removing less specific work. You're going to do some dumbbell presses and flies and a lot of other stuff early potentially, but as you get closer to peaking, it's just kind of with us down to mostly just pushups. Because your body has really to get good, good, and only pushups and all of the really great qualities about the other movements you're doing, they are adaptations that you can keep for weeks on end without training them much, which is sweet because then you can train the only very thing you need and allow all of your resources to go to. Second thing is you're going to be reducing RIRs, reducing reps and reserve, which means going closer and closer and closer to your limits. Then you rest a little bit and then go all the way to your limits. Makes sense because you have to adapt in such a way that you can't just do all your pushups, sets five reps away from failure and be like, yeah, like I'm doing enough volume, I'll get good at these. You will get good. But a lot of the getting good of peaking is learning how to grind in that last few reps. And the only way you're going to learn how to grind in the best way possible is fucking grinding. So you get a little bit more grindy towards the end. No matter the reps you're doing, and lastly, you want to reduce kind of end-run fatigue. One of the reasons why we pull out a bunch of exercises that are unrelated is because we don't need them anymore. Another reason is because everything we got out of them, we now can put into pushups. Another reason is, well, we want to limit the amount of fatigue they cause and increase the amount of training we can do for pushups themselves. And the last reason is we just want that whole system's fatigue to come down so that when you're in that last session, you're testing your pushups, you feel spri as fuck. You don't want to come into a testing session for pushups. And someone's like, hey, how's your training band? And you're like, amazing bro. I'm fucking ready. And they're like, are you? You're like, not really. I'm sore. That's fucking tired of shit. I hate pushups. I'm so interesting. That sucks. You don't want to do that. You want to come into a situation where you've reduced the volume substantially. Such that. When it's time to do pushups and test, you can't fucking wait to do a bunch of pushups. So, peaking sample for zero to four pushups is right there. I'm not going to describe the whole thing because that would be preposterously long. What I will say is this, you'll see here things like deficit pushup on the eccentric me on the concentric. Let me tell you what that is. You do a deficit pushup, which means you put your hands on mats in their space in between. And you go below where your chest is. Nice and deep, big stretch, two or three or even four inches below. And I know something about that small number of inches. Hey, I was going to say what your kids were going to hear there. Then again, what do they know? We're talking about. In any case, you're doing an all pushup off the feet. Super deep. And then when you get down, you get down on your knees, which you're probably used to from your day job. And you push up off your knees, which is easy. But that allows you to get a huge eccentric destruction, but then still come up. You get all the benefits of a full range of motion, eccentric phase, specific to what you'll be doing in the actual testing the pushups. But you may not be able to come up concentricly from a deep pushup because you can only do zero to four pushups at this point. So this makes it a very, very good tool for that. They got a Monday, Wednesday, Friday thing. And then we have some modifiers as to what to do in the last week. For example, if you scroll all the way down to Friday, you'll notice that you just do one set of competition style pushups that last Friday. What? Why may even go to the gym? Because that one set gives you practice, like an athlete, nervous system practice, and metabolic stuff in order to get you to basically just not get any worse at pushups. But because you're doing so little work, your fatigue is falling down. Such that when you come in next Tuesday, notice extra day, normally you'll train Monday, Wednesday, Friday, in this plan, you come in on Tuesday. Why? That extra day gives you an extra break. And the last thing you did was Friday, you just like one fucking set of some shit. And there is a flat press machine in here that you also do on most Fridays that you don't do any more on that Friday. You literally come in and do one set of pushups. And then you come back Tuesday and do warming up and do your big set. Right there, just over to my scotch of it. Are you guys at what the shoot appears? Excellent. I was the hear the whole time. You're going to want to make sure to take a nice warm up and that's detailed right below. Do not just come in and start doing pushups. Or maybe it's just a warm, warm, warm, warm, warm, warm. You can try it every other day. But you get one good solid fucking decent try at this. You want to be nice and warmed up. Next sample plan for folks that are conducive. It's a 5 to 10, 5 to 15 pushups and want to do a few more. You'll notice the similar structure, a few differences. Again, there's that removal of shit in the last week. It's a really big deal. Feel free to pause this and really take a look at it. Just screenshot it on your phone, copy it down, use it yourself. No problem. Just give me all the credit. I just want all the credit for everything you've ever done. Is that too much to ask? I'm going to like shit like, oh hey, like got this RP strength pushup thing and I did five more pushups and asked my wife to marry her and I want a new car and a sweepstakes and it's all thanks to Dr. Mike. He's great. He did it all. He has friends. That last one's a hard cell. Try that. See how much you can give me credit for shit. Phase three for folks doing crazy pushups is intense. There is a lot going on. One thing you will see that is going on is on Monday. We have a very tissue disruptive day. There is deficit pushups which fuck you up. There's competition style pushups which fuck you up because you're so good at them now. You can do a lot and really get tired. There's a crap load of skull crushers with a whole shit load of volume. On Wednesday you will notice that you actually just go to mats to a partial pushup and you save a lot of fatigue. Most of the fatigue and pushups comes at this bottom stretch, also most of the benefit. So think of Monday as a big big data push some games. Wednesday as a day to take it a little bit easier and then Friday is like a mini test day. Now you will do some flat machine pressing after blah blah blah. But you do sets of three to zero RR and every single week you chop off a rep and reserve. And of course it's just one set in the last week and that last week set you cap a three to five reps and reserve. Last week is super easy. But you basically have the structure where Monday is really tough. Some of Monday's fatigue will carry over into Wednesday. Wednesday is much easier and then Friday you generally feel pretty fucking good. Which is sweet because Friday is when you're kind of going to start to get close to your your show up and a first thing you do is sets of competition style pushups. So in this peaking style, another benefit is it's not just like I do these weird science things and then hopefully you're going to pushups and if every Friday you find out where you are, if you're like, well, that was like two reps and reserve and I hit 42 pushups like fuck man up here and already this is great. You're certainly going to have an idea of how things go. But here's the really cool benefit of this kind of system. The Friday is tougher. Sorry, Monday is tougher. Wednesday is easier. The last week Monday is still pretty tough. Wednesday is pretty easy. Friday is super fucking easy and then you don't compete. Show off until next Tuesday. That means that by the time you get to next Tuesday you are going to be so fresh and so limber and so fucking ready to do pushups physically and psychologically because it's going to be like almost a week since you kind of trained pushups or anything remotely chest tries up hard. Promise you you're going to be like, oh, can't wait. I'm going to be on the bus going to the gym. Some old ladies going to bump into you. You know, usual. She's like, sorry. I need your like fuck bitch. I don't push you up. Don't do that. You'll go to jail. But in any case, think it before we show up to the gym. All right. Last thing, I'm not going to read it out loud. Catch that bottom of how to warm up for pushups if you're in this position. It's a little lacky, but it works. Hey, it's kind of my advice on everything. In any case, here's the thing. What can you expect doing all this as far as typical results? Well, you're going to expect to do a lot of work. This is a lot of work is required to make the kind of changes that you have to make. If you're in a position where making change is difficult and you are, that's why you're watching this video. If I was like, hey, easy changes, we wouldn't say any of this stuff about hard work. In addition to this, I want you to be super attentive to modifying the plan on volume and frequency. That is how many sets of procession you do and how many sessions you do per week based on how your body responds, which is to say performance. If you notice, if you do pushups three times a week, you just tend to make better games than if you do them four times a week or any kind of pushing workout, force too much. If you notice that you've done two and it's worked okay, but you add a third and it works way better, three is better. They want to soreness. We want to make sure that almost in every case, except for that last thing I describe or Monday is really hard and Wednesday is pretty easy, you want to just not be sore or at least very sore and the packs and shoulders and try steps before you begin your next pushup workout. If you are getting to sore, there's two ways to fix it. The best way to fix it is just do less volume. Last time you did five sets of pushing stuff and you got sore, Monday, did five sets of pushing stuff, you're still sore Wednesday, do four sets next time. Do three sets next time. All the sets will add up by promise. You want to show up, ready to roll for all of your workouts. The other way is to say, okay, I'm doing some kind of push training four days a week and I'd have to do like half a set to not get tired and sore for my next workout. Well, then fuck that, fuck the four. Just go to three or two and it seems like you just take a little bit longer to recover. Later, you could start to get much better at recovery and add a session. No problem. Just be mindful of that. Sometimes there's not a whole lot of volume moving you can do. You're just training to God damn off. There is no golden set number. Somebody set should I do is a question that has no answer except for the best possible answer, which is how many sets can you get a decent stimulus from and also recover on time. Really kind of the same thing. If you can show up every Monday, Wednesday, Friday, for example, your chest rolls and tries to pretty healed up, ready to go hard again. That's the amount of volume that's probably very close to being best for you. Some's like, no, man, 10 sets and everything is great and you do that. Extracts your shop sore and tired and more sore and more tired every single day for two weeks. You're going to have a bad time. On the other hand, someone's like, man, it's all about one set. I read the science article that said once first set, your best set's just do just first sets only broach, one set every day and you're like, all right, you do it and you're like, hey, I was in warm up. That's it. It's it, man. You're going to get strong and tell you come back a bunch of weeks in a row doing one set and you're like, I think getting smaller and weaker, they're not enough of the stimulus. Don't follow the pack. Don't follow the trend on this. Start out with a small amount of volume just a few sets of everything. If you're recovering really well and on time, add a little bit. If you're recovering way, way ahead of time, add a little bit and you might have to do that a few times, but if you're really pushing the recovery boundary, you're feeling a little bit tired day to day and a little bit sore, do less. Folks, I'm going to say this once, but I'll probably say it a bunch more. Doing less is something that we in the iron culture, so to speak, are afraid to do, but we're insulting our own intelligence because if your system is maxed out in adaptive capacity here and you're like, fuck, do less, bro, and you do this much, you're a fucking moron and you're overstrushing the system and you will get worse. Period. It's okay to do less as long as you're not bullshitting yourself and just being lazy. But the good thing is it's really easy to figure that out. You know when you're being a fucking, I was going to say another really, really bad word. Starts with a C and it's something women say to each other when they're very upset. Don't be that. Be honest with yourself and do as much volume as hits that little goldy locks middle of the road zone of solid, good workout, but I can still recover for next time and don't put any value judgments on her. You're going to want to compare, like how much, how many sets do you do? Random Jim friend. It's cool to know, but at the end of the day, who gives a shit because you have two different bodies. Unless you have the same body. That sounds cool. Like twins, maybe? I don't know, you're two consciousnesses in the same body. Weird. Would you touch yourself? I'm going to stop. This is not that kind of channel. All right. Doing this, it is possible within G's 48 months, half a year. So to put like five reps or more on your pushups, I know that is not crazy. But you're here because everything else didn't work. Here here because six months ago, you had the same pushup PR as you do now or better or like you PR by one rep and last six months. So if this is not impressive to you, do something else. Do go type in Dr. Mike pushups enter on the YouTube search and then we have a shit load of videos and how to do that. If you do need this, then you could be in a position where it work as well as it does. And as usual, the verbatim stuff of where I put bench and skull crushers in this Monday Thursday, that all makes sense in the context of a hypothetical plan. Apply to some random lifter. You're not a random lifter and you're sure it's held on hypothetical. You're a real person. What you have to do is take the concepts away. Like the idea that a peaking phase tape is down. The idea that you first build muscle then get good of the thing, then peak. Those are the concepts I want you guys to take away from this so that you not only can build your own pushup to perfection plan, but let's say one day you're working out the gym and this gorgeous, this got to be like, give me a hair color. But Jesus, boring, this gorgeous blonde, just living her life her hair is fucking doing this, doing that just tons of hair. Like a super sand except down like to her knees. This is getting weird. Anyway, she walks in and she's like, hey, you, can you help me do more pushups? You do have to fuck somebody else to do it. And you're like, wait, I know how to do this because I've seen that stupid doctor mic video where he makes weird analogies at the end. Did he have a problem with the thing I can't lay at home? See you guys next time.

Hey folks, it's me Dr. Mike Isertel and I am here to talk to you about mistakes that I've made in my life just kidding I could be another fun very long video Intermediate training mistakes if you've been training for all three to six years or so relatively diligently with weights What sorts of mistakes are common to make? If you're a beginner watching this or if you're a media watching this if you're an advanced person who coaches intermediate Watching this There could be some gems in here that you could avoid and it'd be really really awesome because then you could do a good job at coaching people and It coaching yourself without making these mistakes. So what are they? I have six that make the list the first one is Very very ultra common and it is kind of Almost everyone makes this at some point when they transition from being a beginner To an intermediate one of the big sort of inflection points there is you can no longer make the same gains So for example beginners can just add five pounds to the bar and still do sets of five for like Months and as an intermediate you may try to do that sort of thing and typically where it took you three or four months until you just got tired I needed a break you were still hitting PRs as a beginner now after two months You're not tired. You don't need a break, but you physically have stopped making PRs because your body doesn't adapt as fast anymore It's more challenging to adapt you've already adapted quite a bit you're an intermediate welcome and you have to now realize that beginner gains are gone Some people will program hop Try to find those beginner games again, but they're gone forever Well, unless you stop training recess in all of your games then you can repeat beginner gains But it's really just getting the gains backcains so a lot of people will Just assume people the assume that they progress just as well and Continue to run into high levels of fatigue and shitty caps platoes and their PRs and what they have to understand is that the same rates of progress are not rounding more in its time to adapt Here's one way in which you can adapt if you like to run two months or Eight weeks of successive training until you take a deal at our break As a beginner, you used to do that and you'd put Five pounds on the bar every single week and you could just hit PRs PRs PRs all the way through Now you can't do that anymore try this every other session put five more pounds on the bar and every other session just do the same reps You did last time with the same weight just try to get the technique a little bit better better Mind loss of connection a little bit better external technique and really high quality reps Right, so you have a challenge week and a mastery week a challenge week and a mastery week and that way You only progress Instead of all let's say 40 pounds to the whole process You may progress only by 20 pounds, but it's actual progress because remember 40 pounds is an illusion You can't progress like that anymore in two months because you would hit these mega platoes You get ultra fatigued you take deal of weeks in the middle of your planet throws everything off It's just as long as you're realistic and you understand now my ability to adapt isn't as high anymore You don't have to just continue to assume you can make beginner gains and do a sad face when you find out that your whole program is fucked up all the time That's the deal. That's the deal Next another mistake is Very poor or no focus on anything regarding the stimulus to fatigue ratio So beginners will just do the same exercises they were doing as beginners I know they're in termedits and they don't understand that sometimes those exercises don't pay off anymore Or even their techniques could use some work for example if you bench with a relatively narrow grip as a beginner Amazing stimulus for your packs great for your tri-sense great for everything shoulders don't hurt it's awesome As an intermediate individual you might continue to do this and then you're like man And I'd really want more peck growth And I'm already doing all the stuff for pecks And so I would say well do you a peck's get really pumped or really sore from when you do those closer grip bench presses and they go I don't know I never paid attention to it Ta-da As an intermediate lifter you have to start to learn how to Figure out your body and listen to its signs and symptoms. It's trials and tribulations you could say and say okay This technique really gets my pecks going but this other technique doesn't I'm gonna try this technique This technique really doesn't feel great for my shoulders, but this other technique feels incredible That way you start to alter your techniques Even ultra-symetric eye selections Ultra-sym rep ranges so that the amount of muscle stimulus you get is awesome High stimulus and a low fatigue especially your joints and connective tissues This is something you have to start paying attention to because it's worthwhile for you now As a beginner every exercise every everything every rep range is all right answers It's not all right answers anymore some of them are wrong answers you have to find the right ones by listening to your body Number three Sticking to limited exercise numbers this is especially is true if you come from a beginner culture or very limited Exercises now just generally pretty good beginner culture because you don't need that many exercises to do a good job as a beginner Also if you constrain yourself to just a few exercises as a beginner You can to put all of your learning and just if you exercise to keep things simple for you and it makes you a master of those few exercises and if they're core basic exercises like squats, presses, poles, etc You could easily branch out or become master of a lot of other stuff so it's actually a good idea to do various You exercises beginner Maybe you'll do like you know two total exercises per muscle group for the first year that you train right When you train quads it's either lunges or squats that's it different App ranges different arrangements sometimes not much difference you just make gains As an intermediate you're gonna have to realize that some exercises will start to get The stimulus to fatigue ratio of some exercises might start to fall off and you have to try some natural sizes because they're in the gym You already very competent at your old exercises. They're now starting to become very stale and all these other exercises are now Good for you to use because you're an intermediate so not only do you are you ready to use them because you have a great base of Competency in the core basics, but you're also Need to use them because all of your core basics just don't work as well as the used right so a lot of people Could go out and try to ask what and could like presses and remediates or could dumbbell press instead of barbell press You know would be great phenomenal movements and they should be trying them on occasion To regularly test them out to see which exercises and what techniques have a really good stimulus to fatigue ratios keep those in the rotation Start to build up their exercise repertoire as intermediate. It's really learned about their bodies in which exercise is your best But a lot of people don't do that Because oftentimes they come from a cultural background of low exercise selection What are they called your background like if you raised you know Ashkenazi Jew that means you're stingy on the exercises Watch me at council for that one is retail okay? I'm in the tribe No, not culture culture training culture so for example if you start with a program like starting strength that's a culture really is Starting strength is like five exercises in which is fucking sweet four beginners But as you become intermediate you may realize that okay low bar squats were pretty well for me Put no as well as they used to and honestly my hips are kind of irritated and my quads don't really feel a fucking thing anymore And you try some high bar squats odd different exercise illegal I'm your immediate and I are not a beginner now. It's a good time to try that Try those in the rotation see how they feel okay they feel great put them on the back burner after a few months try Legpresses try hacksquats that doesn't mean do everything new and everything crazy and every day a new movement Still one to two exercises per muscle group per session Multiple sessions through the week so that's like two to four exercises per muscle per week But you know you might be learning five or ten exercises are really good for you and slowly sampling from that list That's a good idea keeping needlessly constrained Constraint to just if you exercises Not wise because they might not be ideal for you or just might be stale or you just missing on our other perfectly good variance Another one Extremes of volume and reps and reserve Intermediates know how to train now fundamentally, but they don't really know the landscape of what works best for them because they just Exit it to begin or phase of everything worked So now people get drawn into different arbitrary directions some people go fuck I want maybe to get it be games back But going back to number one. That's a stupid idea I'm gonna do the German volume training psychotic amounts of volume zero progression just boom right up to high volume That idea all their folks will just really take the low road and say oh, man, I'm just gonna do like five through one Five through one's not a good intermediate hypertrophy Or strength program because the volume so fucking low it barely stimulates you at all Sure, I don't keep making you stronger and are logically for a while Not ideal in the least Well, so what's the answer well the answer is you start learning your body We start learning how much volume you can get a nice stimulus from while still recovering for your next session Good pump bit of soreness and then next session comes a Monday was your first session second session Thursday by Thursday your completely healed and you're strong and ready to go and then you hit it again with a certain volume Which isn't also not so little that you barely feel it and not so much that next Monday you're still Basically bro kidding you can't use your legs. You're like I'm supposed to do legs today, but I'm in a wheelchair Not the middle ground but somewhere between ultra extreme and ultra easy That's the right part for you so start close to easy And if it's too easy to a few more sets next week and if it's a little easy to do few more sets and eventually You'll build up to a volume that is the right volume for you and as a beginner You don't have to worry about you like that because you do minimum volumes and everyone benefits to a huge extent But as an intermediate you need to start exploring that landscape and not going to arbitrary and saying extremes and just doing rational shit Right because your gains depend on it and if you're going to think about anything Might as well be gains as direct quote of Albert Einstein It's right along with many of the others on the internet. There are also direct quotes of his for real Problem number five that people run into all the time and bad habits that they have Is in the opposite of the spectrum They a lot of intermediates want to pretend their advanced people And what they do is they try to get really crazy on a mind muscle connection and they pick exercises Like yeah, man, I can really feel my last contracting and someone's like Have you been getting stronger on the exercise over time and they're like it's not about how much weight you lift man It's about how much tension the muscle feels Thanks Frank Zane but on a serious note As an intermediate you need to be very concerned with with good technique getting stronger over time and Really pushing the progression Good technique set of ten and a hundred pounds next week good technique set of ten and a hundred and five pounds good technique next time set of 12 at 105 pounds and so on and so on and so on every time getting closer to failure and as Failure looms you still have good techniques still have good technique Earn your progressions that way you really learn how to train Fucking hard two benefits one during learning how to train hard you train hard and you get great results two is the way that we define Mind muscle connection the Perception of a high degree of tension to the muscle and or the perception of a profound Deep painful burn in that muscle close to failure Both of those rest on your ability to push hard Right now Need feeling my bicep that is not the mind muscle connection. That's just kinesthetic awareness. Yeah I have a bicep and I can feel when it moves my muscle connection has to be with heavy loads under control Or with lighter loads really fucking close to failure Some of the community biceps like yes fuck burn them off of me or something. I fucking hate them So in order to even qualify for the mind muscle connection to be validly used you have to learn how to train hard And if you skip to the mind muscle connection Without learning how to train hard all this bullshit of really like I feel my lat not not not you fear your lat contracting that's like the fucking point You're supposed to feel your lat with a shit load of metabolites in it or an unreal degree of tension pulling it apart ever single way That's my muscle and you have to do a lot of intermediate training of progression Slowly moving Unstoppable into the fire of close to failure training that's how you learn how hard feels and how hard feels on each of your muscles Then you can start to pay attention to my muscle connection and actually pick good exercises for right and supposed to bullshit Or you can just feel the muscle But it's not feel with heavy load or very close to failure because that exercise might be shitty for generating both of those Boom, you know earn that shit The best analogy I've to come up with people who pretend have a mind muscle connection when they're too weak and too out of touch with their bodies or have never trained hard enough to really understand what that means Is me I'll do this for you right now actually watch this ready I bring all the old laptop and I am a hacker watch this ready reaching a file product call All right, we're in we're in fellas wait I was just doing this in the keys randomly. Oh, it looks advanced, but I don't know what the fuck I'm doing Just like almost all hackers and movies Don't know what they're doing and they're doing random shit and people of the gym that think they're hitting lots with the smunware bullshit But they've only been training for three years and they actually don't know hard to train hard enough to hit any muscle So if you like Pilates or whatever you like feeling the muscles working sweet that's not my muscle connection. So fuck that number six Lastly, so big one As a beginner you can do a lot of prepackaged programs where it's verbatim sets for everything written out for you cookie cutter and you can get a great result because you're beginner or so That hard to give you a great result As an intermediate you have to understand that now begins the era of pre-packaged programs no longer being ideal You're gonna have to fots with them a little bit you're gonna have to alter them at the margins Because you have a unique knowledge about yourself You have some limitations and some very good abilities and you have to design and tailor even if it's a little all programs to match your needs So for programs that's five sets of five But you know you can't regardless for many more than three sets of current time do three If it says five sets of five but it's the last week and you know like I can easily recover for more than you do seven Right all ready changing things at the margins This program says overhand pull-ups, but you know those just hurt your elbows and if you knew neutral grip They don't hurt your elbows at all and you can do a shit load reps the answer is neutral a beginner or maybe just do what it says But at immediate you have to start thinking for yourself if you want the best results The alternative of course is to do the programs exactly as to written Obviously no during the time that you're doing them that they're suboptimal and you know how I really shouldn't be doing these overhand pull-ups because they fucking hurt my elbows I'll put the program says look if the program designer could talk to you Hit say wait hold on that horses are elbows. Oh yeah, just they say well just hard mob He's probably gonna be like Just do you can do another pull-up variant and you can say why didn't you put that in program because it's a beginner program dummy You just took somebody's beginner program and using it as their mediates. I don't do that Good intermediate programs like the ones we have the custom training templates at our P Weird cough They are auto customizable which means you design them with some structure we provide and then you pick the exercises You can pick how to do the exercises too good programs for the intermediates in advance are just architectural layouts unto which you build your beautiful new Maga city Yeah, it's the perfect city no crime no hippies Especially no hippies and no coffee shops either because those attract too many hippies. I'll see you guys next time You

I'm connecting with the cheapness force. Can you feel it? Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Edassons' Pre-Dization. And today's video is about how to build a home gym for cheap. Whoa! Color me interested. Alright, how do I relate to this topic? You may ask because you may know some facts about me that seem contradictory to me having any relevance to this topic at all. I, it's true. I'm so profoundly wealthy that recently I got into this thing where getting out of a car, finding a parking space, keys, what are they for? It's annoying. So what I do is when I get to my next destination, I just crash my Lambo into it. I go in the gas station, get whatever I need snacks or whatever. Butlers, my butlers, usually follow me around a helicopter. They repelled down military, speck-op style, secure the area. And it's a transport helicopter. And then what they do is they take the crash Lambo away at another transport helicopter while the current transport helicopter wheels down, lowers down another Lambo that's not crashed, pointed exactly into the direction where I want to go next. The keys are in it. It's already odd. If you're Dr. Mike, this is a ridiculous story. Wouldn't somebody get the gas station just to get into your Lambo? What? It's got sniper fucking cover. I think that helicopter isn't going anywhere. Try again, motherfucker. Like fucking bullet explodes next to your lolly shit. You just run away. And the police know about me. So they know, hey, let's, uh, I stopped for Mike's Lambo. You're going to get shot. And he's got all the rights to kill you because it's his fucking shit. That's the kind of level of wealth. I'm deal with it. So clearly, home gym makes no sense to me at all. I have a facility. Vephacility, we call it. However, I do, if I really think back, faintly remember, and this is the real part of the video, I did grow up in the Soviet Union until I was age seven. The idea that you have a gym at all, let alone a home gym was baffling to most people. And I grew up mostly poor for a super long time in the United States, where we moved over here. So I know all about that fucking life of trying to save some fucking money. And the ultimate reason that I can connect with folks that are trying to save money on the shit is because I am genetically three quarters Ashkenazi Jew, which means that when I do this, I'm connecting with the cheapness force. Can you feel it? A few other groups can connect with it. Jesus, this is going to get awfully racist. Should I even say it? Scots that don't name them. You know who you are. Oh, you know who you are. And you know who you're not. The not maybe no, but the are. You, my favorite, if you know. They are coming below which groups. No, no, that'll get us banned. Don't come into anything on that. In any case, stupid jokes aside, here we go. My shut up, you're, take the full whole shit of people think you're funny too seriously. And you don't get to actually do the shit. Let's go to the shit. Here we go. Home gym purchases ranked by performance to price index. You get out of it in the numerator. How much a cost in the denominator? We want maximum effect on our bodies specifically for muscle growth from what we buy with the minimum cost to our wallet and pocket book. I rank one is adjustable dumbbells. You know them ships where you fucking click the 16 and 16, you put it back down, you click the 40 and it's 40 pounds, those things. It kind of doesn't matter how much they cost. Because whatever they cost, it's fucking worth it. Because if you have a dumbbell set that goes all the way from 10 pounds to like 50 pounds or something like that, you can do so much with those just two dumbbells that the price of $152.53 or $50 is all fucking justified. Just save your money for a while. When you buy that, I would probably get the warranty on it. They often often have to sort of think, because they're clicking mechanism in some models of excellent and some like three weeks later. It's like not clicking in or whatever. So definitely keep your receipts. But those adjustable dumbbells are just men. My vote for the best price performance or performance price, rate per 12, is as price performance. I was wondering if that'd be the other way around. I'll just say performance prices, new narrator, denominator. And those are just like I can't recommend them more. So if you ask me like, hey, what's like one piece of equipment, I'm on a budget, I'm just, but adjustable dumbbells. That's it. The next thing you buy, assuming you already have adjustable dumbbells, this is how this list works. I'm not going to rank these in terms of like, well, you could also just buy this. There's no, I want you to buy adjustable dumbbells first, in almost every case. The second thing you buy when you come into some more money, maybe your criminal enterprise has seen an uptick or whatever. I'm not going to judge how you make money. You're only fans got a few extra subs. That's how I make money. The next thing you want to buy is an adjustable bench press, which has flat and incline multiple incline options. Maybe even it has one of those seat hook thingies for your feet and goes into a decline. So you can use it as an ab bench as well. That's not super mandatory, but flat and incline. Seeing that you have adjustable dumbbells now and you have an adjustable bench, you're multiplying the number of exercises that you can do in a combinatorial way. It's intense. You can do an unreal amount of shit with just those two pieces of equipment. And I'm going to say this without one to find a point on it, you can get in a fucking really good shape. If for most people viewing this channel, you may be able to get into like the shape you've always wanted, at least not limited by your equipment anymore. So that's a really great start. And also the big benefit. If you live in a very small apartment, you have just like a room you're renting in a house or whatever, a fucking adjustable bench, plus a set of adjustable dumbbells. And there's some shit you put off into the corner. The fucking cat gets in there. Oh, dumbbell crushes the cat. Oh, you come home, the cat's been dead for 12 hours. Jesus Christ, I want South. I'll just stop that one. Number three, if you've got those things already. And in some cases, even if you don't, but really outperfer those two things already, adjustable dumbbells are adjustable bench, my next big recommendation is to buy a budget power rack, squat cage or whatever you want to call it. And usually they come with Olympic weightlifting bars that have like 300 pounds on them. If you just buy the power rack, I would say Olympic bar needs to be your next purchase. You can get utility out of a rack without one, but really the two are like match made in heaven. Or rack, plus bar with like up to 300 pounds of weight, just standard Olympic straight bar, is something you can almost always get if you bargain shop for under a thousand US dollars as of 2023. And that thing right there by itself is going to get you almost as far as you ever want to go and fitness. If you're really clever and creative and you watch our videos about how to vary exercises and modify stuff for home gyms and minimal equipment, we have those videos already by the way, give them a Google. And with an adjustable bench and adjustable dumbbells, if you also have a power rack with a barbell in some weights, holy fucking shit. Now here's the thing, there are amazing racks out there that are phenomenal. D1 sport performance grade racks, elite fitness systems, they make a fucking unbelievable series of racks. There's a ton of other competitors in the space that make awesome shit. The video is not about that because you don't have $5,000 to a rack with fucking eight band hooks to some shit. I'm not denigrating these things. These racks are amazing and absolutely worth their fucking weight in gold. Not literally, I guess. You know what I mean? They're a great piece of equipment. And if you have the money, I would absolutely buy them. But this is about making a home gym on a budget. That means you want to get the cheaper racks. As long as it's made a fucking steel and you're not the world's strongest man, you're not going to break the fucking shit. Look up some fucking Amazon reviews and people are like, oh, this is pretty good. I've had this on my house and I've used it for years. That's all you fucking need. That you can get pretty goddamn cheap. Next, there are a bunch of companies that sell cable attachments to put on to your power rack so that you can have cable curl, row, try set push down and face pull and even pull down options. This is a humongously awesome, super efficient use of your money. Does it take your already existing power rack on which you can do everything you do in the gym damn here and gives you cable options? Huge victory. Now at the end of this saying fucking I'll just skip. Skip one slide, Scott the video guy. There is actually something on the market. I don't know if it's a vetted and if it's good, but I know there's other versions of this that are pretty damn good. If you Google full body train power rack squat cage with cable clock crossover and machine attachments, you get this whole insane set for actually a very reasonable sum of money depending on where you are and what the market is. It is a power rack with a dip stand with cable attachments with a rowing plate for your feet with a bar holder and a different row setup. This is that thing that I'm talking about, the only thing it's missing is a bench and some dumbbells. You can actually combine with that points three and four into a fucking unbelievable home gym setup on real. And if you already have a rack, there are cable attachments and various workouts you can buy for it that will be really, really good and give a lot of utility. Lastly in your home gym collection, this is a huge one. I can't put to find a point on this. The next investment you want to make that's the most worth your money is to purchase different cable handles for the cable attachments. You got the narrow pulling handle, you got the tricep pushed on handle, you got the wide parallel handles, you got them fucking shits that look like you've cut your hands into those, your own, say in the mad grips. This you have cable attachments and you get a different cable attachment. If you have a cable station, which you now do, if you get a different attachment, it's like getting a different machine because that's how much variation you can milk out of just different rips. And because most of these cable attachments are like between often less than 50, but usually no more than $100, that's like buying another machine for 75 bucks, holy fucking shit. So if you're tired of doing cable rows like this, you buy another attachment, now you're doing them like this. Then you're doing them like that. And a lot of times, some of the bars that are kind of squiggly will have multiple points of contact for you and they're inherently multiple machines in one. Different attachments are such a huge effect on variation that in my own home gym, I have a whole wall my friend made for me that just has hooks on it and I'm like collecting different attachments that I have. And it's awesome because I look at their number one, what kind of fun stuff do I do do this, mess of cycle? And it's really just having a ton of different machines, but super low cost and extra bonus super safe, saving on space. If you're fucking machines of a nasty footprint, they cost a thousand fucking about five thousand, what am I saying? Five thousand fucking dollars. They sit in a fucking five by five area that's not fucking useless and you can't go there anymore unless you're in that one fucking pack deck machine and that's all it's good for. There's a little different cable attachments including the single arm ones, like the what is it, the E-DZ USA ones or whatever, that shit is fire symbol, fire symbol, fire symbol, it is unreal value. So to review. What do you get when PhD sports scientists collaborate with pro body builders? The most effective muscle growth training app ever made. With years now, adjustable dumbbells, number one gym purchase, for a home gym with a budget, number two, get yourself an adjustable badge and you can get these, you know, a few rich, you can get a few of these at the same time. Power rack with barbell with some weight on it, cable attachment to power rack, maybe you can buy a power rack that's both of those combined, three and four, the actual rack and the cable attachments internally built. If you're really on a budget, I would recommend that. And lastly, different cables for different attachments for different cable options. If you just buy these five things, you may in many realistic scenarios be spending, I'm going to say only 1500 bucks. Fifteen hundred bucks is a lot of fucking money. But to have a home gym, which basically means you never have to fucking leave. And you have everything there that you want. And you can get almost optimum results. I would say that's fucking worth. And some of you that are great bargain shoppers and fine things used, you could do better. You could buy all this for 700 or 800 or 900 bucks. That's essentially a full-scale home gym in a fraction of a room in your house. That's pretty fucking good. So give that some thoughts and listen. If you guys have comments on what else you think constitutes a really good value, please post them below. I don't know if YouTube allows this, that if you have links to really good deals, just names so that YouTube doesn't filter out your links. Because sometimes if you post links, it just says go fuck yourself. If you have names of things to search, that are great value options for anything on this list, or anything else you think is valuable, please post them below. And if you see something really like or like, oh, that's a good one. I love that suggestion, like it, so that the high-light comments filter them top. Because when folks come to this video and search of what kind of shit do I need to buy for my gym on a budget, they'll read the comments and they're like, oh fuck, that thing exactly is the thing Dr. Mike said, click on the link. Oh my god, it works. So they search the term hell, yeah. They buy it. Gym manufacturers make lots of money. They go home and they feed their old families, old poor children. And they give them food. Hey, because thank you for clicking. And you guys get jacked, everyone wins. But the real winner, us, because we monetize on YouTube. How yes, money, bring more money. In any case, guys, thank you for tuning in. Let me know if you have any questions comments below or what equipment you think is going to add to this list. I will see you next time.

Music Hey folks, Dr. Mike here, Jared Feather, for our science organization with Raymond Sonsossey. Yeah, you got it. I'm trying. I'm trying. That's pretty good. He is the founder of the entire Atlantis brand. And of course, we're here at Atlantis Gym. And he is sullen. Oh, I don't want to say it right. Sixty-eight. Yeah. Years young. And Jack, and he is going to show us how he trains. And we're going to ask him all kinds of questions about what he's seen growing up. Why he got into fitness and maybe what you can take away as an older individual, trying to stay in the best shape of your life. Let's do it. to it. Something to do like 15, 20 reps. Sure. Just warm up. We used this machine like yesterday. Yeah. It was amazing. Yeah. It was amazing machine. The smoothest machines ever. Even the cable stacks are so smooth. I'm like, I was going up. You know, when you've been tweeting the machine for 40 years, that's the, to try to improve. There's always room for improvement. Sure. Training. Why did you start training at all? I was, you know, seven, eight years old. I went to the basement of our house and I saw a box of magazine, muscle building magazine because my father was training back then. We had like 10 pounds dumbbells, 5 pounds dumbbells. So I tried some exercises from the magazine and I cut up the pitcher, put some scotch tape, you know, on the wall and each time I wasn't my bed at night I said, one day I'm going to do like this. So you've been training for 60 years. Yeah. My first contest. So I went to the gym. I got a member in the San Timber and in March, it was a contest in Montreal. So after six months, I went to the contest again win. But just for the trail to go on the stage for me, it's a, oh my god. So after that, I won the junior Mr. Monthly All-Katech after a year. So at 17 or so. Were you eating a lot or no? Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Because I gained like 30 pounds in that year. I remember I had 16 years old, I had 16 inches of barn to be honest. I was following that year, you know, 17, 17, 18, 18 inches of barnman. Yeah, 18 inches of barn, 18 inches of barn. Listen. Yeah. Yeah. My was training like the six days a week. Great job. When did you win the Mr. Canada? You know, I won Mr. Montreal for a music comeback. Eastern Canada came third twice in Mr. Canada. Those year was the best year because you could compete naturally. So I went to I built him in 78. I came second. And the year after it was Mr. Canada, here in Montreal, 1999. As prestigious, the Plasties are. And it's like, the guess pose or the idea. I want the Mr. Canada. I saw the picture of it there. Oh yeah. How did that feel? Oh, it was great. Because my dream was to be Mr. Universe. And because I won Mr. Canada, I was the guy who represented Canada in Mr. Universe. But I understood that you need to have, you know, other things, you know, than training. Sure. So I was afraid, you know, of those things, you know. I'm not pretty to be that. I don't know where I'm going to go with this, you know. So I stopped. I opened a gym. I saw that was not a result by then in 17. But I didn't have the money, you know, to buy those machines. I said, one of my friends taught me all to well and out to build the things because I have a financial degree, you know, bachelor degree. So I didn't know all to well. So I'm going to make the machine like the way I think, you know. My first machine was a power rack. Oh, yeah. That's all I remember. I didn't have a power rack. Where did the company name come from? In 1986 I said, I want like more commercial name. So for me, I saw a movie. I planned this. And apparently it was healthy people. And they took their own house. It bounced. It's a really nice name. It's a great name. You've been working out a long time. Common mistakes people make in the gym and prevent them from having the best games. Sometimes they know they take too heavy. And they do like half-movement. Yeah, you have to train with the kings of four-injim motion. Arnold and all those guys back then. They were all there for movement. Yeah. I don't know about the technique today. If it's going or not. But I can't see that. For me to do it's only half of the movement. I don't feel, but some machines, you know, that you have on the market. Sometimes you cannot do the full movement. Most wide-process. Yeah. Or some chess movement. The machine, the weather, done. It's hard to make full movement. And also, they want to grow fast. Me, it took me like 10 years to win this weekend. It takes time sometimes. It takes time to make a decision. I have decayed. I know it's to do something. I think. So the workouts typically don't take more than 45 minutes. Yeah. I think the idea that it was overtrained. Yeah. It was hard on bodybuilder. You know, it was like crazy, a little bit. And after that, you know, I had some discussion with all the bodybuilders. It was a little bit too much. You don't need to be too hours in the gym. You know, but a good training. You know, I feel it. You know, I can feel it. For me, it's like, it's a, it's a wheel of life. Yeah. I have a lot of passion. But my passion, if she said, you can take only one, it's going to be training. Like any measure you're a very successful person. Successful and sport. Successful and family. Successful and business. What, anything you can say to the folks at home watching. Your top tip. Just for anything you do. How to be successful. What is something about one word? Perseverance. I went four times to win Mr. Canada. You know, working out maybe nine times a week. And, you know, during four years, I did that. So, but that I wanted to win. So, I had to persevere in order to do my things. Even in business sometimes, you said, I'm tired. I had so much things, you know. I'm going to continue. That's probably the key of my success. It's perseverance. It's very inspirational. That's awesome. That's awesome. That's awesome. Raymond, Mr. San Francisco, thank you so much. I was so glad you guys were here. You just got your learning a time for you. Hopefully, Jared and I can become a third of what you are. This is it. The man in the myth of legend. Thank you so much for tuning in. See you next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Predization, you want to know how to build muscle as fast as possible and I have answers. As a matter of fact, I have 10 tips for you. Now, you may have seen other videos claiming to tell you about how to build muscle as fast as possible. And unfortunately, many of them are lying. They are trying to sew you some magic supplement, some magic formula, some magic approach, some magic diet, all that shit fails. There are precisely two things that can build a lot of muscle very quickly. One is an adherence to proper measured scientific training and diet. And two is copious amounts of potentially insanely hazardous antibiotics steroids. That's it. Since this is not a steroid video, we have those on the channel. If you're curious to Google them, let's talk about how to train for maximum size fast. First, you want to train six times a week. Because six-time a week training allows you to train your body harder and signal more muscle growth than training for or five times a week. You could say, but Dr. Mike, I get great, great gains. You tell me, off of four days a week training, dope, you would get better gains if you train six days a week. Most of the most serious bodybuilders in the world train five or six days a week, sometimes they even do two days with the end up training nine or ten times a week, but six days multiple sessions per day. A lot of training is critical. Remember, this is not a video about how to grow muscle well. It is a video about how to grow the most muscle. You're going to train a lot. Next, each muscle group that you train, you're going to want to train two to four times per week. That means if you're training your biceps, your shoulders, your triceps, your forearms, your calves, they may be done three or four times a week in their own workouts or workouts integrated with other muscle groups. If you're training muscles that take a little bit longer to heal like hamstrings, quads, glutes, chest, sometimes back, you're going to be training them two or three times a week. Every time they are not sore and not tired, you train them again and you design your program appropriately. If you think training six days a week means you train legs once and back once and chest once and shoulders once, you've got another thing coming multiple time a week training. It's a lot of training. When you're actually in the training, every single set, you train at least to three reps in the tank. When the bar starts to slow down and really fight you, at least that hard. If I watch you do a set at the gym and you're in and I rack, if that's a work set, that's not a fucking work set. That's a warm up. At least three reps and reserve and really at most, if I'm saying that properly and potentially all the way to failure and beyond, that doesn't mean you have to go to failure and beyond to get your best growth, but it should be hard. The bar should notably slow down and fight you at the end of every single set and then you know you're working hard enough. And doing usually four to ten sets per muscle group per workout. That means let's say it's six sets. When I train biceps Monday, six sets of biceps. Wednesday, six sets of biceps. Friday, I have more time to heal after. I do eight sets of biceps. That's a lot of bicep work. But you want to the fastest growth, remember? Now you're getting it. Every time you come into the gym, every week, you add a little bit of load, teach exercise and you try to hit the same number of reps or you add a repetition to each exercise and you hit the same load for a slightly higher number of reps. So you start at squatting for sets of ten, then it's eleven, next week it's twelve, then it's thirteen, then it's fourteen, then you're probably d-load and recover. Or you start at squatting with a hundred pounds, then it's one or two point five, then it's one or five, one or seven, five, one, ten, etc. Progress is critical to your best gains. You don't just go in there and train hard, you train hard, progressively, and of course with excellent technique. Next, when you're unable to add reps or add load when your performance crests and starts to fall back because you're too fatigued after four to eight weeks of consistent training like this, probably closer to four if you're really doing six days a week hard, you're going to want to take a d-load week. That's a week or you just take completely off of training or you come in and train like twice, really easy. Just a few sets of five to ten, really far from failure, get the blood and the muscles recover, go home, eat a bunch of food, sleep a bunch, relax, really get pissed, get really ready, and then you'll have another hard month of training ahead. You can't consistently train this hard that I'm describing without taking d-load weeks every 40-eight weeks. By the way, the RP-high-perchofy app link in the description programs all of this for you in advance. Next, on the nutrition side, you want to make sure that you're eating about a gram of protein per pound of bodyweight per day. So if you weigh 150 pounds, that's 150 grams of protein. You can eat more than that but no more is beneficial. Less than that, probably on-wise, you want plenty of protein. Next, you want to spread your protein and the rest of your food into four to five evenly spaced meals, roughly evenly spaced meals throughout the day. That means you wake up, you don't just walk around or you're intermittent fasting. You wake up within 30 minutes, you eat breakfast. And equivalent amount of protein through meals is super, super important. So if you 160 grams of protein per day and you have four meals that you eat, each meal has 40 grams of protein or they're about. You eat breakfast, you eat lunch, you train, you eat dinner, you relax a bit, you have a midnight snack, you go to sleep. Consistency is the key for growth. If you want to get huge, you need like one or two meals a day, the shenanet happening. Sure, shit, not as fast as it could be. Next, point number eight, you want to eat at a surplus. The thing about getting big is that it requires you to add size. The only way you can add size is if you eat more calories than you burn. If you eat thousand more calories than you burn, you're going to get really fat. Very fast. If you eat a hundred more calories than you burn, no one's going to notice that you're gaining anything. But somewhere between 250 extra daily calories and 500 extra daily calories, which reflects gaining roughly half a pound to a pound per week for 12 to 60 weeks at end, that's going to add some *** size. If you don't do that, you will not get as big as you could have got. Point number nine, enough sleep every night. I know too many people that are doing all the right stuff except they don't get enough sleep. They have an exciting life. They do lots of cocaine, fuck if I know why they're not sleepy. Disco wall, dancing all night long. Sleep is when you do a huge fraction of your growth. It's when you do a huge fraction of your deep systemic recovery that allows you to train hard and benefit from nutrients. If you're chronically underslapt, even for a few nights in a row, every time you eat more food, much more of it turns to fat and much less of it is ported into muscle than you would expect if you were well-select. Sleep is critical and it sounds lame, but it's true. How many hours an night do you need? That is a question for you to answer what keeps you well-rested throughout the day. Could be seven hours, could be nine hours, could be anything in between. Usually it's about eight. Lot of individual differences there, so make sure you're well-rested. Lastly, all of the points I gave are nothing without consistency. If some weeks you do some of these okay other weeks you're really kind of bad, you're not going to gain the maxo amount of muscle. Consistency is king applying these techniques that I just taught you. Consistency, day in day out, share you'll have some bad days some good days, keep it up. Week in week out, month in, month out. Three or four months of this sort of program that I'm describing, you will get much bigger. You'll get as big about as you can, because this is really leveraging everything we know that for sure gains size all in the same apparatus. If you'd like help in the description, we have a download from the RPi Perchrophy app. It will organize your training exactly like this. We have to tell it you want to train six days a week and you have to make sure you're going hard to use a good technique and a lot of the stuff that it will plan the rest of your progression for you and tell you literally set number two, week number three. I want you to do this much weight for this many reps and that's exactly how many reps you need to grow your most. If you need help on the diet front, the RPi coach app is also something you can download and it will plan a diet for you. Just choose your surplus amount, choose how many weeks you're doing it and it's going to display all the meals you need to eat. You pick your favorite foods. It tells you when to eat and voila you're putting on size. Do you have to download our apps to do this? No, absolutely not. You can do it on your own and ton of people are successful. So, apps are not. Make sure to implement this knowledge. Be serious about it. Be consistent and don't fall for BS. At one new type of creed team, what about four straps that all makes almost no difference. It's the core basics you have to hit. Hit these 10 basics. See you next time when you're way bigger.

Hey folks, it's me, Dr. Mike is retell for Renaissance periodization. Welcome, welcome, welcome. It's like a carnival. We have clowns, elephants, clowns, also, we don't have clowns. Hey clowns, I don't think they belong in modern civilized society. But that's not why we're here. We heard it talk about the best calorie intake for fat loss and how you can determine how many calories you should be eating to get the best possible fat loss results. So here we go. We're really talking about the size of the caloric deficit. How many calories you cut out from your normal diet in order to get the best fat loss. And here's the thing, if you create a very small deficit enough to burn something like half a percent body weight off of your body per week or less. So if you're like 200 pounds, something to lose like a pound per week, which really if you wait 200 pounds, that's not that much. That's a totally fine way to do things. But that means that total amount of fat loss you have no matter the goal is gonna take a little bit longer, which is the downside. However, it's much easier day to day and week to week. Because if you have a small deficit, yeah, you need to diet for longer, but at no time during that diet or you look, oh man, this sucks. You could do a 12 week diet, lose only 12 pounds. But at the end of that week 12, you're like, nah, I feel pretty good. Someone's like, are you hungry, tired, irritable, and you're like, no, no, no, actually not really. The upside is that you never really encounter any problems. So downside is that, well, it's only 12 pounds and other people of lost 18, and you feel sort of like you're missing out. On the other hand, if you create a very large deficit, our definition of your an RP of large deficits, anything above 1% body weight loss per week. So if you wait 200 pounds, for example, losing two pounds or more per week, that's pretty fucking serious. The fat loss, obviously, occurs much quicker. However, it's harder day to day and week to week, you run into more hunger and fatigue and irritability, you know, so there's stuff, sleep problems. And as long as you can manage those, you can get rate results, but manage them, it becomes tougher and tougher and tougher, the more of the deficit rises. So our question actually in this video, what we're gonna answer is, between a very easy cut that gets you not so great results, and a hard cut to get your really good results, if you can survive, how do we find where between these two is the best place for us? Sure of burnout, of course, is there an optimum? Turns out there is. That optimum is bet. If you can meet three conditions, you are somewhere around that optimum. Here we go. First condition is whatever the deficit is, it still leaves you with enough food that allows you to have a high training energy. As soon as you're eating so little food that you're training, turns to dog shit, man, that's probably not the ideal deficit for you in most cases, right? You can train hard with plenty of food and enough energy. You can spare all of the muscle, which means you don't lose any muscle, which is awesome. And you have tons of daily energy for calorie burning activity and just getting all your stuff done. So if you can have good enough energy to do all your daily tasks, train really hard, then man, that's a really good thing. Any deficit that is deeper than that will inevitably cause pretty serious problems, it may not be the right deficit for you. Number two, no matter how big you make the deficit, if you start cutting in so deep, that your sleep gets disrupted, that is no bueno in a big way, why? Because sleep is an incredible fat burner, possibly the most powerful fat burner, study after study shows, that if you're not chronically not getting enough sleep, you actually build fat while losing muscle. Fuck all that. But if you get enough sleep, you can burn a shitload of fat, while building muscle, it's the opposite. So any deficit that you plan to do, that you say, oh man, I'm gonna impose this really big deficit, I'm gonna lose a lot of fat, if it starts to fuck with your sleep, that's not happening anymore. To some extent, the biggest deficit is, the worst it gets, you are trading, you're still losing tissue, but a lot of it starts to be muscle, not as much starts to be fat, and then everything goes to hell. And because you're asleep, a so critical and maintaining your fatigue levels or keeping them low, as soon as you're chronically under sleeping, your fatigue skyrockets and ruins everything else around you. Including, but not limited to, point number three, which is hunger. If your hunger is overwhelming, you start to stress out about it. You start to cut down on your daily productivity, because instead of typing an email to Janice, you type half the email, then you scroll on Amazon for the kind of chips you're gonna buy when your diet is over, and you go back to typing the email to Janice. And you're trying to relax in your downtime, but instead of flipping through the TV to find cool shit to watch, you're flipping through the food network, and just looking at food like this, and you realize that you're so frustrated, so hungry and so pissed, you're not even able to relax anymore. It's very difficult to relax when you're hungry, that's for very good evolutionary reason. Your instinctual proclivities to do x, y, or z, stab someone with a spear, or try to get laid, or try to take a dump when you have to, it's all controlled by subconscious and unconscious processes, and they sure you do the right thing and the absence of culture and still survive. That sort of system also makes sure that when you are hungry, you're not able to relax, because if you're hungry and relaxing, you are diminishing and body weight, and it will eventually die. You have to go out there and scavenge for food, or forage for food, or kill something to eat it, then when you are hungry, your body's telling you there's not enough food, it's gonna make it very difficult to relax, and instead it's gonna get you to get up and go do something about the shit. That's called stress, and you don't want that shit. So a deficit that is very high, that doesn't cause crazy hunger, and of course you're gonna be a little hungry, but hunger is just a really interfere and overwhelmed the rest of your life. That is too big of a deficit, it is not the right deficit for you in most cases. So to answer the question of how hard do we go on the deficit to get the best possible results, the fastest results, without all these downsides, is literally you go up to as hard as possible, as these three points start to give out on you, right? So you can go easier, you can say I'm gonna lose a half a pound per week, never remotely run into any of these three problems, and that's awesome, the downsides that it's gonna take a long time. No big deal if you have the time, but sometimes it can be a little demotivational and you wanna get it done fast. And remember the optimum deficit means the one that accomplishes the work the quickest with a fewest downsides. So here, if you take your deficit and push it just to the brink of where all three of these things are still not problems, and if you push it and you further it start to be problems, just to the brink, that's where your ideal deficit is. I'm not giving you a number because it's gonna be different for all of you, but if you know this intellectually, if you can say, okay, do I have a lot of training energy sweep? Is my sleep still good, yes, but I tried eating a little less a few days and my sleep sucked? Is my hunger overwhelming? No, but those days that I ate a little bit less, my hunger started to really get to me. I know what I'm eating right now is the furthest I can push it and for the next several days or weeks, that's as far as I'll push it. Maybe I'll change it later, but for now, that's as far as I push it. It's almost the definition of like, if you're, kind of stupid now, you can come up with, you stole an alien spaceship and you're running away from aliens. You know you can fly that ship, almost as fast as to when it breaks, but if you break it, then your dad and space the aliens common they, anal probe, they all ever want one thing the aliens, that's staying up real big. If you don't want to get any an probe, you push that ship as fast as it can go, but no faster. Same idea here, you push your deficit low enough to get what's fast as possible, but that you still have a high amount of training energy and daily activity energy, enough food for that, your sleep is still fundamentally good and your hunger isn't overwhelming. That's how you know you're pushing it as far as you can, but no further. It's gonna take some trial and error, so start on the easier end and push your deficit a little aggressively, but when you bump into a problem, bump out of it by increasing the amount of food you're eating. The next step is to be able to do a little bit of a bonus information. All three of these indicators will tell you how long you can die it for. How the fuck do they tell you how long you can die for? Does that make any sense? What here's what you do. You set a minimum weight loss goal per week. You say look at 0.75% per week, I run into these problems of excessive hunger, irritability, sleep problems, and not enough energy. I'm gonna set 0.5 as a minimum weight loss per week. Well, within that 0.75, so like a pound a week if you're 200 pounds. And you say if I can't lose half a percent per week without hitting these problems, I'm done. So what you do at first is you start at the highest deficit level that these three conditions still check mark four. And as they encroach on you, for four weeks you may not have any hunger at all, losing at 0.75. After a week number five, you start to have hunger, you go to 0.65, not 0.75. You add a couple hundred calories in to make sure the deficit isn't as intense and you keep going. When you stop the diet is when you can no longer check mark all three of those factors as still good. And you reached past your cutoff point for how much weight you wanted to lose. So put another way, if you're starting to get hungry, even at half a percent, and you said half a percent was the most you'd ever go. Two weeks in a row, if you're too hungry to kind of sustain it, you need more food, the diets over at that point. So what you can do is start out with a rational diet set up, go as far as you can as fast as you. That's kind of like driving your car until a quarter tank of gas and then looking for gas stations. You don't really know when you're going to hit a quarter tank of gas, like you know roughly it's 300 miles. Well, like there's some hills and there's some turns and there's some bad weather comes down, you get into traffic, you get out of traffic, you go 90, you go 70, you go 50 miles an hour, you don't know exactly what, but because you have a rule of as soon as they get to a quarter tank, I got to pull off and get gas. That's your rule. And when that happens, you cut out. So here, instead of saying, okay, it's a quarter tank of gas, our metric is we have to lose half a percent at least per week and we have to not encounter psychotic energy disruption, not encounter psychotic hunger and not encounter psychotic sleep problems. If we can check list all four of those boxes, we're going. If we can't check list all four of those boxes because we've already raised our calories, what this means is you actually start with a bigger calorie deficit at the beginning and then add a little bit of food as you go to still coast along. But as soon as you have to add food beyond that half a percent per week, we cut out, we run, we stop the diet and you had a diet, you're looking back on it. Someone said, hey, how would your diet go and you could honestly tell them, I diet it as hard as I could for as long as I could until it became unsustainable and then I stop. Then you go to maintenance, fix all that shit up, reduce all the fatigue, etc. And then you can diet again. Well, shit. This works on almost every circumstance and it's something to keep in the back of your head, theoretically when you're trying to decide how hard should I diet for, how long should I diet for? This is the core theoretical boundary layer set up for that problem. There are a few exceptions to it. First exception is, well, actually, you really just want something formal that has a certain explicit goal and then you just have to reach the goal, like contest prep. You just have to be like 5% that on stage and that means hunger and fatigue and all that stuff is just something you have to deal with. I guess the analogy is like, you know, we gotta get away from these aliens because they're not going to anal produce, they're going to fucking kill us. So even if the ship's starting to be real unstable, we gotta keep pushing. Even if the ship is running on fumes, we gotta keep pushing because they're from crash the ship into this jungle, alien world, we can all scatter off in the aliens and never find us. And then we make friends with E-Wax and then we learn that we actually don't have a mutually intelligent language with them. There's an misunderstanding and that you walk try to stab you, you kill E-Wax chief. Now you're in charge of all the E-Wax and the E-Wax female start looking at you with those E-Wax eyes and you're like, Jesus Christ, you're like a teddy bear. I'm not gonna have sex with you. Fuck, why am I here? I'm gonna end it weird. Anyway, folks, see you next time. you

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. Have a little treat video for you today. Any of us that are treat canoes, I don't even know I said that. The glutes are an important muscle target because everyone wants the big glutes. And deadlifting for the glutes is a great option, but what kind of deadlift to do for the glutes is kind of a little bit of a question. I've put my mind to this, all my wrinkles on the top of my head and my bald head. And I really thought about it. And I realized that there is a type of deadlift that really stimulates the glutes. That most people seem to not know about. And I want to make a video now. Other people out there have said similar things before. I'm not trying to name the shit. Although if you are, it's a doctor Mike deadlift. If you have this some thought, we're going to hit you with a few different angles, few explanations to give you a little bit of a thought about what would constitute a very good have-in-it deadlift to hit the glutes specifically. Let's get into it. It's going to do a couple of different variations of deadlifts to show you guys the king shit glute deadlift that I invented. It's not my invention, but it's a great way to take the deadlift and make it a glute target exercise checking multiple boxes. The first thing Jen is going to do is she's going to demonstrate the sumo deficit deadlift. Excellent for the glutes. But it is absolutely a great option. But it suffers from the fact that when you push your legs out like that, you're sort of pre-contracting the glutes. That means that the bottom of the glute stretch isn't going to be as big as if your feet were together. Now, if we put the feet together, we're down to two conventional options that most people think of and neither one of them is ideal for the glutes. So next, we're going to take a look at that regular deficit deadlift and talk about the advantages and disadvantages of that from a glute targeting perspective. And the conventional deficit deadlift, the glutes are hit really well. But in order to get that deep and get a good glute stretch, you're going to have to bend your knees a lot typically. Bending the knees is great, but it takes some of the load away from the glutes and forces it into the adactors and into the quads. Not a bad thing, this is an actual exercise. But how do we get the glutes to do more work? And specifically, how do we get the glutes to stretch big and deep at the bottom, which is a huge growth stimulus? That takes our logic to the next exercise, which is the stiff-legged deficit deadlift, which is closer to what we want, but has a big flaw. Let's see what that looks like and we'll talk about it to big downside. So the stiff-legged deadlift is excellent, excellent, excellent at getting you to bend really deep and stretching the glutes at the bottom and targeting them. It has one fatal flaw as a glute targeting exercise. Because you are keeping your knees back and keeping the tension massively on the hamstrings because of leverages and differential muscle strength in cross-sectional areas, the hamstrings typically are the limiting factor, which you probably noticed when doing stiff-legged deadlift properly, your hamstrings get fucking crazy sore, but your glutes typically don't. The glutes get a pump, they get some growth, but because your hamstrings are a limiting factor, it's not quite what we want, which brings us to the theoretical hypothetical supposition of a really good glute focused deadlift would look like. It would look like a stiff-legged deadlift, but the big cue is as you bend beginning with relatively straight knees. You want as you feel the hamstrings, normally in the stiff-legged deadlift for hands, as you start to feel the hamstring stretch, you lean into the stretch and push your knees back into it. In this deadlift, everything stays nice and tight, your glutes are getting a stretch, but as you go down, you let your knees come forward just enough, not a big bend. Enough so that your ham's lose tension. Then what happens? You get maximum glute stretch under load and your ham's don't take over. This is the doctor, Mike, glute, deadlift. I came up with it and you can't have it. It take that calf and breath, whoever else has glutes. We got bigger glutes, show me glutes, Jen. I made this, she's used these three years or whatever, I came up with it today. Anyway, let's see what those look like. Alright, so it's a stiff leg of that lift, but as you feel tensioner, your ham's your knees come forward a little bit. Yes, yes, but deeper, I want you to touch the ground. Chest up. Yes, there it is, deeper. Feel that deep stretch in your glutes. Knees forward a little, forward. Yes. Good. I'll hold it down to touch the ground and pause for a split second. I want maximum glute stretch. Yes, absolutely. That's so far away. The ground is very far away. Good, let those knees bend a little bit. Good. And one more. Good. And then slow and then we're going to put it down. Is it if you're going to do another? Let those knees bend a little bit. Yes, and that's it. Very good. The huge. Do you feel that in there? The huge. Just bragging at this point. So, to review, sumo deficit, excellent choice for the glutes. Also hits the adductors of tonne. But it lacks that maximum stretch component. Conventional deadlifts from a deficit are great and they do hit the glutes early while. But typically people bring the knees really far forward and stay more upright to be able to lift more weight. Not a damn thing wrong with that for power lifting assistance. For overall lower body, I've purchased it. It's a great choice. But it's not exactly targeting the glutes very specifically because your quads play a pretty big role, especially with a big deficit. And if there's not a big deficit, well, your glutes don't get a big stretch, so it's kind of baby with the bath water. The next choice is a stiff leg of the lift, which is great. It targets the hands, preferentially because they are the limiting factor from those almost locked out knees. So this exercise, the big Q, is it's a stiff leg of the lift at the start. But as you feel tension in the hands, you let your knees come forward, forward, and the my muscle connection should be big stretched out glutes at the bottom. But with deep as you can, keep your tummy out, chest up, knees just bent enough for the hands to be out of the equation. And it's basically this hinge at the glutes is the movement. And your glutes will do the work. If you want to crunch them at the top for a sec, get a good mind muscle. That's another cool choice. But remember, the real money is in that deep stretch, which brings us to some working sets, folks. Jen is going to do these, enjoy the glute entertainment, and give some thought to including these deadlifts in your program. If you'd like to know more sign up in my new website, www.glute.deadlift for hypertrophy doctor Mike slash backslash.com.ccp JK. I think. Slow. That was a best wrap in the whole fucking set. Two more. Two more good ones. Slow. Oh, good. Slow. Up. As this another. Brilliant. Brilliant. Get used to that shit. All right. Hopefully that made some sense. Give this a shot anywhere between five to 15 reps. Typically is good for deadlift. Make sure you control that centric, gentle pause or touch at the bottom. Always really good technique. Make sure to warm up. Do there other stuff. Add this into your arsenal for glute training. Let me know how it works. And we'll see you guys next time.

I'm gonna work as this bullshit. I'm trying to get it up. I'm trying to get it up. We'll take some by-adrows or something. I need to see how it's turned. Alright, get the f*** out of here. You're done. Hey folks, I'm actually my favorite franta sounds periodization. Let me tell you a story. A second walk. Started short walk. It was going to be short walk. We turned it in a long walk. I ended up walking to Toronto, Canada, which is how they say it up there. If you know the accent, you know the accent. Or I have just had shitty accent and personal abilities. I was walking down the street, just exploring Toronto, and Omar Isufe. It was just there. I was like, what's up? Omar, he's like, not much. Just kind of thinking of showing up to your house and doing all training. And a little collateral, a little chatting while you do your deal of work. I was like, you know what Omar? Let's get into my gold-laden private four-rotor helicopter, which follows me everywhere I go. And fly over to Detroit and get this f***in' more work out in the lab. And Omar was like, oh, yeah, okay, fine. And then so here he is. So we want the f*** together. We want all the way back to Detroit, Michigan. Good general warm up. The helicopter followed us. Yeah, yeah. Omar is in his classic, what I would describe as some combination of American kickboxer and tiger king outfit. Thank you. And be because I'm a fashion superstar, a fishin' auto. You can see I'm in my autism shoes, he said the shoe lace is it. What's your crox? Somewhere else. That I honestly don't even know if this is the real mic. It could not be. I've met you a few times and it always was a crox. And you know what Omar people actually sometimes wear different shoes. I can't accept that. I can't accept change. It's a matter of fact, I refuse to accept that. And makes me uncomfortable. But also I'll say, that's why when you ask, hey, what do you want to train? You know, you train very effectively. You're very intelligent. You're going to train legs. We could put you through the ringer. And I said, let's do something that's never been done before. Yeah. A D load workout. Let's go real hard for her. So we're here mostly from the ban chart. But maybe a couple cool tech neat cues. And maybe we'll push you a little harder than we'd push me. Let's do it then. I've never pushed myself that hard. What does that even mean though? Yeah. I know in the SNM space exactly what it means. But in the training space, I'm not so sure. Or so interested in finding out this a matter of fact. No, and I think most people that train a failure is due to it because they are failures. You know, so like today it's like a D load. Yeah. Whatever. You're just like checking the box about what you really are and Be confirming to the world that you're never going to be commenting one by failing in the gym as well as it life. That's what I thought. Let's go do some training. Alright. So I'm actually dealing with my part of my upper body, which means we're going to do a chest exercise, a tricep exercise, a shoulder exercise and then a bicep exercise. I'm only doing two sets of not that many reps pretty far from failure. Just to give them a little bit of a stimulus, help them recover a little bit. And then I have basically more than half a week of almost entirely time off. And then I start my last five week push into my Mach contest and I have a little peak diastuation. That being the case. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That being the case. Oh, the people just need to know that I can do this. I'm prepping. I'm prepping. And when I train chest every single session that I do, which is twice a week, I always put my calves before my chest work. And I know that a formerist name is of any one thing. It's having calves so large that people argue about whether or not they're made of 100% in fall or just 99% in fall. And so Omar, would you like to do calves with me for the first exercise? No. Okay. Let's do calves and then we'll see how you feel afterwards. No. Great. We'll do calves now. We made that tumultuous to be honest walk. It was like how long did it take us from Toronto to Detroit. Days. And I thought that was one giant calf exercise. Think about it. Fifty million or a lot of reps, right? But I'll do this with you. We'll do it. So calf. What I'm going to do first is I'm going to warm my calves up. So I don't even get on the leg press because that's what we'll be using. Yep. I'm just going to sit here for a second on this little leg and do like eight reps. And I'm also practicing the cadence. I'm not sure what you're doing, but you could easily just go after me. Yep. Did you want to do everything even at the same time? I'm just seeing what it feels like. Okay. No. You're doing it wrong. Thank you. Caves or sex. This is sex. This is for play. It is. So, you know, half your foot on, half off. And then tilt your hips as far forward as you can. So you can lock your knees out and pre-structure calves. And then go as low as you can and hold it for about two seconds. Come on. And then don't peak contract. Hold just come right back down. So you hold for a while down there. Pulse up and back down. This is how long did I hold down there? Down there. You hold two seconds. Up there. You hold zero seconds. Yeah. Good. Come down slower. Up quick. Down slow. Wait for it. Up quick down slow. Wait for it. Up quick down slow. I'm like a child. You need to explain everything. I can see them. You're good. That's good. Good enough warm up. And then we can hop on the leg press to do your leg press calves. Okay. So we go right to three points. Yes. This is preloaded. Yeah. Yeah. Now I would typically have been doing four plates. But since the load I'm going to take a little easy. Yep. And I've actually had a big revelation with calves. So my little wolf, Dr. Milo Wolff, who has been pioneering research and thinking about how much does the loaded stretch matter. And it seems like a lot. And so I took that insight and I changed my calf training recently from emphasizing the peak contraction and full range of motion. And I'm going to do a nail-in peak contraction where I'm like, eh, I just push a little bit. But they spend most of the time in that deep stretch position. I'll tell you this. My son has been fucking outlandish in my calves. My growth has been like better than it's ever been. So I'm loving it. So that technique that I'll illustrate here is precisely to emphasize that deep stretch. And not the peak contraction. So I've never done this before. Go right to three. Correct. I mean, I'll follow you. You tell me I'm going to be reps. I'm more I can show you the world. Shining, shimmering, splendor. I was hoping you're going to start singing. And I like that was that. I want a rendition. I want to be serinated. Fully extended knees. Yep. Sit in the bottom position for three whole seconds. Yep. Pulse up and then slowly centric back down. Control the descent. Yes. Sit long grip the bottom. Ah! Oh, it was fake. Stop holding the peak contraction. God damn it. Look, I'm not being serinated. It's like going to have a burst. It's doing right. There you go. Yeah. Hold the stretch. Yep. Well, the calves will be sore. Guarantee tomorrow. Let's go do chest. Yeah. 100%. So we're just going to do some chest presses. I'm going to do one more mupset and then that two works. That's eight RIR. Some shit like that. What I want to do here because I'm deluding is focus on quality of the movement pattern. Good technique. But also a lot of really good stretch and full range of motion because I feel like. I feel like it's not accurate. No from the literature and physical mechanisms involved that. A focus on the eccentric in a deep stretch actually promotes a slightly rehab Relative vector for muscle and joints. So it actually heals you up. Joint wise a little better than if you cut the wrong. So a nice deep stretch is super awesome specifically for deluding because it promotes a little bit more joint recovery than normally. How do you program your deal then? Like what does it look like? Why do you do it in particular? Why do you find it beneficial? The function of a deal load is to do two things. Primarily it's to drop fatigue. Yep. And secondly it is to maintain as much fitness as possible while fatigue is being dropped. So to me, delude should be executed roughly when you're no longer able to make Consistent mini PRs in your lifts because you've got too much fatigue interfering. You can no longer adequately present them a robust overload and training. It's like if you're the analogy is terrible one, but if you're banging. And like her vagina hurts and your dick hurts and no one's having any more fun. Like it's time not to bang anymore. Like it's time to go get some OJ, a sandwich watch that couple of sitcoms and then And if hydration's really important. Yep. Perfect. Good enough. Yep. Any mic or new more? Yeah. We should title this video world's toughest training. Yeah. That's the title. The thumbnail is total war and just like our, and that's just my head and a nuclear explosion. I'm down. So it's been shown a few times that easy, super easy training in most contexts helps you recover More than no training at all. Especially if it's like a week of off. It's actually you'll recover faster in most cases not all with just a little bit of training. When I say a little bit, my de-loads are typically half the reps, half the load and half the sets like normal. So this is where you're witnessing today. When the thing that matched you of the de-loads, I said, Mike, we're gonna need some crazy, some of them never seen before. Because they think they want to see people going to 10 training really hard. But this is like chicken noodle soup. Yeah. This session. Good slow. Two second pause between your cusses sky high. Yes. Yes. Yes. Go mother fucker. Hell yes. And then slow. Dig chest. And rack. Good start. Good time. Dip time. Dips. I just barely use no almost no way to get a good stretch. She used like 30% of my muscle power and the rest for my legs. And as I do more reps, I let my arms take over more. Like it looks like a weird hop, but then at some point. I can do reps. Yep. That feels nice. So that's your warm up. Correct. Very good. I love that you're pausing at the bottom. So that's right. That's the rule. That's the rule. Like in position. It's fun, fun, fun. Do you see Lotus stretch? I said, loaded stretch. Like loaded. If I, you were. Oh yeah, I have a job of it. Yeah. Not that father. So what's your like explained to me body building a tire. Because I'm still trying to get the pattern down. Oh God. How many layers? Yeah. When do you take layers off? When do you do the first time? Yeah. What do you feel when you take it? How many times do you like self-flage relation later? Totally. Totally. So I wouldn't know much about bodybuilding a tire. Because bodybuilding a tire truly to be representative is stringer tank. Hold up. Stringer hoodie on top of that. Yeah. That on top of that. Yeah. That on top of that. You're an Arnold classic jacket. Right. And then on top of that. Two layers of hoodie. Big ass headphone. Now the lower body there's jorts or an option. You can do like a young lot pants children like those nowadays. And you were preferably wearing shoes that are like one of those high top like the favorite like you know the rave or kid shoes that like that. I'm almost way more. But Mike said yeah. Way more colors. Oh. And they're really big. Sure. And then so you show up to the gym like that. And I think you take off the jacket kind of right away. Yeah. But then with every work set or even exercises you get more pump delicious. You take off another arm of clothes. I try to dress today like the first dude to get his ass kicked. Now fast on aspiration I can get there. Mike, let me teach you something you probably never heard about. There's no solutions. It's only trade off. Thanks Tom. Yeah. Mr. Mr. Doctor. We're more cordial. I see. Yeah. Doctors for the bedroom. Oh my. That's the authority that. Yeah. Shoulders. Yeah. Well, I want you to be a third. I'm tired. I've tried to seduce you within UNDOS for two fucking hours now. Let's go. Let's go. I'm going to the bedroom. I'm telling you. You know about that. The kids don't have to. But at some point, bro. Like it's literally no members. No fat no member. Like don't you know what's up? No. All right. This is going to be me. Folks on the internet. Yeah. When you catch a mean, it's relevant at the time. Please understand. It is almost certain you're the 900 millionth person to use that. But it is no longer funny. It's just annoying. Yeah. So when you say after me posting a pic of me shirtless, I know about number two. Dr. Mike, you ruined my no fat no member. Street no mother fuck. There is no street. No fat no members. Not a thing anymore. What are you beating off? You beat off earlier today. Yeah. And also nobody does no fat no member. And it was like a totally random, how, how funny thing in 2009. It's over. It's over. I will say I experienced something similar. But just like with cap jokes. So what? Like I started in 2012. But 2013, I was like pretty good. But the jokes will persist. Yep. The people still using Omar cath jokes. Oh, like somewhat. Like I mean, it's kind of like, I guess it's supposed to be a recognition that like, hey, like I know your stuff. Like this is a reference that shows that I know your stuff. But I appreciate it all the same. But you know after Mike, I'm sure we're saying about no fat. And you posting photos yourself after the 10,000th time. You're like, I might be good. I might be good. Omar tried grab at the end of the handles. Like, you're better range of motion. Yeah. And then just try to pause at the top for a moment, just above parallel. And then slowly control the eccentric on the way down. Mike, she's in good weight on this. I think you've your respect. Omar, what was this bullshit? I'm trying to get it up. I'm trying to get it up. I'm trying to get it up. Well, take some bi-aggress or something. I need to see how it's going to invade. Where's coming? All right. Get the fuck out of here. You're done. You're cut off from jail. Cut off the food or extra stuff. You're cut off from jail. Yeah. By, sirs. So, it's a technique on this one. Keep it chest upright for nice little stretch at the bottom. We'll pause down there. Come up. We'll pause. Just control. No, it's just like this. You can rotate if you'd like. Yeah. Omar, pretend that you're Picasso. And this is a world of pink. Upstit. Don't lean over. Lean back. Even more, Omar. Chast up and lean back. So you get a big stretch down there. Yeah. There we go. No. No easy days today, sir. Do you need a compete to find fulfillment in bot for the mic? I've already done that. So what is the act of competing that creates another layer for you? Let's say. I want to get it right. I want to peak properly and show my best possible physique on stage. I haven't done that yet. I came close one time. When? Uh, 2000 and 21. Was that the last one? No, the time before that. So you did 22? Like? 223, I did again. I'm sock. Well, I overtrained. So you just want to be able to leave your mark or within yourself to be like, I'm satisfied with the effort that I put in over X number of years and this is me. A culmination. Yeah. I'm all ears. I can do it. And, you know, if I get like a master's bro card, I wouldn't fucking hate that either. Yeah. Mostly the reason I'm going to be by the door and competition is like a built up pretty cool physique. And I want to show it off and have other people formally recognize like, oh, he's a very muscular lean man and maybe I'll buy his RP. I have a picture of the F. That was fun, right? Yeah. Let us know what you think in the comments below. If you want subscribe, sorry, it was nice having you to see that stuff.

What's up folks? It's me, Dr. Mike. From YouTube. I know where we are on YouTube. So hello. This is the first video of a probably 12th part series on how to build your muscle growth training program. So I'm going to do two things. I'm going to talk you guys through the theory and practice of how to arrange your training program. And then, because your boy, oh, Brad, Brad. It means a lamboe. We got this whole training at business coming out. RP hypertrophy out to be specific. It costs money because the money goes to the Lamborghini. You guys are in other works. And I would like for you to consider buying it. And I will be illustrating. Right there. Scott the video guy right there. Yes, excellent. Excellent. Synergy. I will be illustrating how you would build a hypertrophy training plan with the RP hypertrophy app, which will be out very soon. This is the first time we're saying in public. Around mid May 2023. So if you're watching this video in up to mid May 2023, then hit the link into the description because it's going to take you to a mailing list where we take all of your information, social security, all that shit, grandma's getting bunked off. We're going to take her money. No, wait a second, that wrong. We are going to sign you up. You just clicked the button and there's volunteerly sign up for a promo list where you get tons of goodies and then a huge discount price and first look access at the RP hypertrophy app. When it comes out in mid May, like the 15th ish would do a whole mid of that. If you are here later, which maybe you are because you're traveler from the future, then you want to still hit that link. Same link. But what's going to happen in that case is it'll just take you right into a purchase screen for the app where we trick you with all kinds of pricing and positioning, dividing the thing you hate. But once you buy it, you learn to love it. That's how I've been telling myself about the RP hypertrophy app. I've been using it. When my training actually so has got the video guy and we both love it. Love it. He loves it. He knows what he's supposed to say. Corporate chills. Tell everyone what to do. So enough about that enough upselling. Let's talk about how to make a split. The first thing you need to know is how many days a week you want to train. There's a couple of things that factor into that equation. Number one is you just take the number of days in the week. Divide by 18 multiplied by time. Just kidding. Take a number of days in the week and you pick out the days or a number of days that you can for sure make it into training regularly. Because picking a five day a week program should get them going to get you at five days would it takes great. But if you make the unfortunate error of overestimating your adherence abilities, you end up being like only available three days a week, some days, some days, some days for you will fall back on your playing. You'll have a bunch of missed days. The kind of sucks. Now truth be told the RP hypertrophy app completely covers you on that front so you can just go at your own pace. But from your own personal, comic perspective it's annoying. So when you're building your own program with you do it with the app or without this video. By the way, every tip I'm going to give you works without the app, it's just super easy with the app and pay money and then it becomes much easier. If you are building your own plan, it's good to be able to have hide here and because that you know basically guarantee is that you'll be at the most successful possible and you won't psychologically debilitate yourself. It's nothing like letting yourself down. It doesn't matter what goal you set. If it's set of go high enough, that's out of your reach, you're going to feel disappointed when you don't reach. So if you have a goal of making a million and a half dollars, you only make a million, you think you have to assume it's a college or you're going to get upset. So if you want to train four days a week, would you only make it three just to do the right thing and say okay, I want three days a week. Okay cool. Second, ask yourself the question of what your training age is. Are you beginner, intermediate or advanced? If you're a beginner, two to three training days a week, like if you've been training for zero to two years and you're still in getting your new gains, two to three days a week is going to hook you up with great results and it won't over well new because a lot of training for a beginner can be physically and psychologically overwhelming. I just like I just didn't sign up for this. If you go to the gun range and you want to pupe you a little bit, that's cool. But if your first trip to the gun range is you end up just getting off a truck in your own world war three and here's like here's a gun you fucking maggot, go shoot these aliens. You're like, what the fuck these are aliens? I can't shoot a real gun. I'm out of here. This sucks. It's a bit too much, too much too soon. And that absolutely can happen. Tons and tons of people. I'm not just saying this to bullshit with you guys and get an opportunity to joke about shooting aliens a world war three, which we all know against the aliens. I've seen enough movies. It's just that I've seen so many people. I mean, I've been training for a lifting weights for 25 years now. I've been a professor for about as long. I'm getting a little short of that of sports science. I've just gone through a lot of stuff. And I just seen so many people be like, man, five days a week. And they're the first month of lifting. And then they just burn out. You just never see him again. So don't do that two to three days a week, maybe four days a week if you're a beginner. But I guess not better even for that two to three for beginners and most cases. In our meeting, it's been training two to three years to five to seven years. You know training and know your body. Anything like three to five days works really well. And if you're advanced, seven years plus, really, in the groove, really know your body anywhere between four and six days, or even four and two a days a week. And by two a days, I mean, like you train six days a week, but three of those days are two a days to two nine sessions. That works as well. If you are beginner and intermediate and you for the first time are training with a certain frequency. Let's say you're usually used to training twice a week as a beginner. Now you've been lifting for two years. You bump up to three days a week. You're training for three days a week for a while. If you have a couple of mesocycles, a couple of programs, about a month long each, in which you have the distinct situation of, I want more training and want more results. I love training and I can recover from this no problem. And on the days I'm not in the gym, and just like, ah, just doing your mom knocks and you're like, what mom? She's like, just go train, you're like, but the program says, if that's you, then you're ready for another day of training. But what I'm saying is dip your toe in first. Give it a couple months of just training with whatever frequency is on the low end. You can always add more. And training frequency is one of these things that the low frequencies were really, really well. Your level of effort ratio to results is really high when you train low frequency, like two or three days a week. As you go four or five six days a week, your effort multiplies by a lot. But unfortunately, your results only add by a little bit. So it's worth it to you, and it could be, but you got to make sure that it's worth it if you've got amazing results from three days a week, don't change anything. And that you can recover both physically and psychologically and you want more. Because you could mean a position we train 30 days a week, recovering physically no problem psychological and a problem. Something's like, what do you think for days a week? Next month and you're like, hmm, not, I'm good, man. I just, I'm getting great results and I just don't want to train anymore. I prefer to do other things with my time. Like video games, book reading, loneliness. Oh, girls, that's nice to do girls. Ooh, did that come off right or wrong? It's got the video guy. Well, not like, so at the video guy would know anything about girls. She was Mr. You sure been with a lot of pretty girls before. It's got to be the guys a chat, everyone knows this. In any case, that's the deal. Third, so first we got how many days can you for sure train? Second is picked a number of training days roughly corresponding to how advanced you are in training and your training history. And third, you pick the number of days you actually want to train per week and ideally pick which days you want to go on. You don't have to do that. You can do what's called a floating schedule where you just like show up, train, heal, train again, heal two days later or one day later, train again, no problem. Usually better to label your training days. So we're going to try a four X split just for illustration purposes. I got actually Scott video guys laptop here. I'm going to pawn it off after hey Scott figured how much money am I getting for this laptop? 33 dollars. Not bad. It's got a microchip and everything. So let's make this plan. We are right here. This is the real. This is the alpha version not even the beta version. The open paid beta is coming in mid-May and then of course advanced versions after that that will recognize whether you're a machine ally or not scanning they'll do all that. But for now this is the alpha version so feel free to judge the interface but it'll be getting better. We have an option here so we can choose a preset mess of cycle. That's kind of dope and or we can create a custom mess of cycle. So we got a question here. What is your sex? There's no option for yes. That's not that easy to get sex. So I'll say mail I'm a passable mail and since this is an Apple computer I have no idea I click on things okay and if we are on choose a preset mess of cycle, if you're not into all this mumbo jumbo of creating your own plan which would be curious that you clicked on this video at all you can absolutely hit one of these presets and it'll just load everything for you and you can also hit a preset and then change what you like and don't like and then go to town. But just for the purposes of this demonstration we are going to want to say create custom mezzo. All right so we are doing a four-day split but since we hit custom we get ported in to the custom program creator screen which is super cool. This is only currently two days. So we are going to add a day and we are going to add a day and it says no label but we are going to pick our days. So I'm saying Monday and we're going to say this is labeled as Tuesday and Wednesday. How we say the word as it's spelled so that I can help remember how to spell. Actually that was dumb. We need a day break so actually Friday and we're going to change this Wednesday that you know this is organic because I'm making mistakes on the spot and then we get to the point where we have four days laid out and we can begin to add muscle groups. When you're choosing muscle groups here are the rules and this is if you're making your own program in your own time or if using the RP i. Birch of e.h. First in most cases you only want to choose like four to six muscle groups maximum per day to train. Why? You can do more if you train only two or three times are we but if you train four or five six times a week four to six is plenty because you're going to get so tired after training a bunch of muscle groups. Imagine training seven muscle groups per day after you've trained a six muscle group that day what stimulus are you really going to be able to deliver on the seventh muscle group. I mean fuck it's you're really just mailing an hit at that point. Someone's like will you train an actually buy somes they're like yeah you're ready to get that pump you're like I am barely alive anymore I don't even know if I'm standing up or if this is a dream. So I would say if you want to hit it hard keep the quality high keep the number of muscle groups relatively small. Well normal and that's why you can have Monday Tuesday Thursday Friday you can have an upper body lower body that whole thing and get everything all of your basis covered through this kind of split. Number two before we fill in these exercises or pick the muscle groups rather whatever is most important to you goes first. That is huge, huge, huge because you have the most energy when you start training and whatever you have the most energy for at the beginning you have the most stimulus drive to. If you really want a big back but you train back as your fifth exercise or fifth movement or fifth muscle group of that day really what are you how much back row through you getting? On the other hand if you train back first you can we warmed up properly connect with that muscle group thrash that shit violence type energy and then really really good things happen. Point three is you want to try to split up the same or similar muscle groups such a way that they're trained symmetrically through the week and there's enough time between them to recover more. So for example if you want to train chest in a four way split or four day split rather it's cool probably to train chest Monday and Thursday or Tuesday and Friday but if you train chest Monday and Tuesday you run into two problems. Problem number one is that you're supposed to be recovering and growing on Tuesday from the stimulus you put into your chest Monday but you're interfering with that growth and recovery by training it hard again. And secondly when you're supposed to be training hard on Tuesday for your chest you can't because you're tired fatigue to sore and less able to produce force and thus present an overload in a stimulus because you're fucked up for Monday. It makes sense no way that you slice it. Now if you reduce the volume sufficiently of each one or at least the Monday you can go back to back then what the fuck do you do with the rest of the week? You generally want symmetry spreading muscle group support as much as possible. Lastly and this is fancy but you guys get the fancy because this is my honest honest predestination we're trying to get you all the science is you want to avoid narrowly muscle group overlap that isn't obvious but will screw up your ability to have a good training stimulus. For example if you do chest Monday and chest Thursday but triceps Tuesday and triceps Friday that could work but it could not work because your chest is something when you train at Monday Thursday if you do pressing it could leave your triceps tired and sore for the Tuesday Friday workout which is not ideal for the stimulus end of those workouts. When you train your triceps Tuesday Friday they're surely after the Friday thing is fine because you have two days of recovery. But if you train your triceps Tuesday and you got to hit your chest again on Thursday it's kind of like you might still be not so fresh because your triceps are still fucked up and then you got to train chest again and then because your triceps are really tired the limiting factor becomes triceps and more than likely you're just going to start to get elbow pain and stuff like that. So those are the rules you want to use and that's the deal now about to make this sample workout split here as I said before if this all sounds really intense and you're like, bro, what the fucking science? Jesus just build a fucking program. Great. We have programs for you preset into this app already if you simply go and click preset instead of custom and then you pick the number of days you want to train per week and it's got you doing all the lower body upper body whole body chest and back arms and shoulders etc etc and these are already loaded with muscle group selections for you I personally made all of these right? So the upsides are that you already have a structure and first of all you pay nothing extra with these. Yes every single of these every single RP high purtrophy app has 25 plus programs in it already you pay nothing extra for them it's not like unlock this program for $1.50 fuck that is just in there and will always be in there. You can choose one that's as close to what you need or ideally exactly what you need and there's tons of options for today 3 day 4 day 5 day 6 day everything all the different us and groups prioritize and lastly you can run every day I'm like fuck thinking click work out boom and jacked or you can say you know I really do like this whole split I just don't like the biceps is on this day I kind of wanted this other day you can click and drag anything you want around I'll show them a sec or delete or add and thus you can take a basic split that's good from Dr Mike household name and modify to exactly what you need it to be right and if you fucked up a little bit too much try to modify something and you're like I don't even know where I began fuck it click the back button delete that mesocycle or just leave it alone and you can create a new mesocycle anytime you want which is super super fucking dope right so I'm gonna go ahead and add some muscle groups here see with the options or chest is first how yeah you guys know bros made this shit so chest and it asks me to select an exercise but we will be doing that in next video because which exercises you select is entirely a whole different topic so let's say chest and then we do back watch this this is gonna piss off a lot of people let me go to Tuesday and we go buy steps try steps oh yeah oh wait for it shoulders and traps but wait there's more Thursday we're gonna do back and then chest kind of cool to give one priority over the other both have a day in which they're pushed in ones on which they're not and then Friday we start with shoulders and traps we go buy steps next and we finish up with triceps and if that's not the perfect plan for a bro physique I don't know what is yes we could have trained abs but fuck that so that's the split and that basically takes us to a point where we are ready to potentially click and create the mesocycle however we will not be doing that because the nuance of what exercises to pick takes its own video and we will see you guys next time for that video and if you're excited about the RPI Perchriffy app or it's after mid May 2023 and you're also excited about the app but it's already out either just go in the description click on the link either sign up for the beta release with tons of good goodies in the bundle and tons of emails full of free stuff or just click on it and you'll be taken right to a pay screen where your money comes in and my Butler's buying Lamborghinis comes out that's the machine we're building here folks we'll see you next week for exercise selection talk you through principles concepts theory and illustrate on the RPI Perchriffy app see you then

What's up folks? Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. Welcome to video number four of how to make your best program and fast to four muscle growth. This video is on how to estimate your reps in reserve, per set, and get the reps that you are targeting. This video series is all about how to build your program and I'm also illustrating how to build a program with the world's best program builder. That's right, true. The RP Hiperch TV app. If you are watching this video before mid-May 2023, please check the link in the description and sign up for the promotional link in which you get put on a list to get early access to the app and to receive goodies and to get a little price and all that good stuff. If you're checking this video out after roughly mid-May 2023, which is when the app is very likely going to be coming out, then just go to the link in the description. First link is going to be a by-link for the app and you can check it out and buy it and use it and it'll be awesome. So let's talk about how to navigate RIR rep in reserve targets and get the reps you need to progress. I have five tips for you on RIR. What is two or three reps in reserve? The RP Hiperch TV app shoots for week one, two reps in reserve and once you leave two reps in the take, which means like if gun to the head you could have done ten, it wants you to stop at eight. But since you can't do ten to minus subtract the linear time and go back and time and say eight stop here, how do you tell when you're roughly at two or three reps in the take, which is where you're supposed to stop most of your sets at least in the first week of training? The best way to think about it as far as I can tell is it's when the weight really starts to push back, which means all of a sudden it feels notably heavier, you're pushing it and you're like, no problem and then all of a sudden you're like, oh, the bar doesn't slow down but you're like, fuck, the shit is getting heavy. Then you're close to two or three reps in reserve in most cases and or all of a sudden the bar starts to both feel heavy and slow down. That's a big one because folks that are relatively slower twitch or for various other reasons of grinders, Google that one, you can't do that, not at work. Sometimes they'll come down slow and they'll come up slow and grind and you're like, oh, that's failure, I hold on a second. Do another up to see if that gets even slower and even heavy because if you're a grinder, you grind rep number seven out of 10 or let's say your goal is 10 and then you go for up number eight and you're like, same grind, still slow, still heavy but no slower and heavier really and again, same grind, just keep going. You want to get to a point where you're like, oh shit, now that's really slow and really feels much heavier for faster twitch people and slower twitch people like that point is the same point. You just get to it in different ways, faster for people go boom boom boom and then yeah, rack. Slower twitch people go boom boom boom and then they start their slow grind phase, which can be like five to ten reps of roughly the same speed and weight feeling. But even though slower twitch folks, really when two reps in reserve comes up, they'll get that second wave of like, oh shit, shit is for real. That is when your close to two or three reps in reserve for most people, that's when you rack and that's when you stop and write down your reps. You may be thinking, okay, but what if I miss judge and I don't go far enough? In most cases, getting any closer than this just doesn't matter. It does not matter because for a variety of reasons, just challenging yourself a little bit in week one means as you progress over time and the app will tell you how to progress and don't worry I'll tell you how to progress in future videos if you don't use the app, it's all okay. As long as you don't like do a set of five and you're like, I could do 50 more and then you're like, fuck this. Okay, but that's not really two or three or as long as you feel that weight getting much heavier and slower and you feel that challenge, your golden, it's a stimulative set and all the progress after that will be super smooth. It's kind of like you don't want to be a whos in week number one, but there are upsides even to airing a little bit on the side of too easy. So yeah, don't go too hard. You know, okay, okay, don't go too hard, but what about if I go too easy? Well, if you go a little too easy, but not too hard, they're upsides to this. Technique, your technique is more likely to remain stable if you don't push it super close to failure early. Check, that's good. Because as you push a really close to failure technique, make it fucked up and you don't want any business for that. Second, the stimulus of getting close to failure, but not quite too failures very high, the stimulus of getting all the way to failure is a little bit higher. The fatigue that you are essentially exposing yourself to or accumulating from getting close to failure is decent, but from getting all the way to failure is a way higher. So the stimulus to fatigue ratio is actually better in the most cases for stopping well short of failure than it is grinding in closer to failure than you need to grind. That's another win. Another thing is any fatigue that you get extra hangs around through the entire mesocycle in it accumulates in accumulates in accumulates. It's like snowfall in Alaska. First snowfall, eight inches. Yeah, say any boy gets some snowfall like that, two and a half inches. It's sweet hail. What? Cool. But then like the next day, three inches added and then 16 inches added and it just keeps going. Fatigue is similar to that. And the amount of melting in Alaska is not that high. And the amount of melting of fatigue in your mesocycle without a deal at the end, which we'll talk about later in this series, the FDA just keeps fucking adding up. So if you way overdo week one, you're like, oh, call that two reps and reserve. Everyone's like, if I got that, cool. You did great. Good job, Conan the Barbarian. But then on the other hand, in week two or three, when you're supposed to be really hitting your stride and hitting BPRs, you're going to be gas and exhausts entire because the fatigue you imposed on week one is now hanging out with you in week two, three, four, etc. So that's really, really, really bad news. That bad news reflected self in the next, the last downside of pushing too hard to early, which is you want progression. You want 10 reps this week, 11 weeks, 11 reps, the week after, then 12 reps or 100 pounds, 105, 110. Those solid small progressions, that's how fucking growth happens. But if you give it all in your first week, you accumulate a ton of fatigue, it really close to failure. You do 110 pounds for 10 reps. Next week, the app will say, hey, automatically, by the way, it'll be like, hey, like, 115 for 10 reps. Here's your goal. And you're going to do it. You're going to be, you're going to get 10 because you're going to be like, holy shit, I can't do this because I accumulated so much for too early, it screwed up my progression. And even if you survive the second week, the third week you might underperform. Underperformance is not what you want. You want to ease into the shit and then slowly and slowly, which the app will take care of you by auto programming, everything, rise up to the occasion over time. That's what you want. Going right into the flames early, fools Russian, where why is men? The year should tread. I don't know if you're going to. This isn't the progress channel and on that other shit, you'll hear more lies. All right. Point number four. App time. In most weeks and in most cases, if you do week one and you fill in all your loads and reps, weeks two, three, four, etc. all the way through, the app will auto fill your load and your reps for you. So if you did a hundred pounds or ten reps this week, next week, depending on how the cookie crumbles and the app has its own and neurologic that it develops, you're going to get to do 105 pounds in the goal of E10 reps, where the Apple say state you know 100, but the goal will be 11, some way either by adding a little bit of weight or a little bit of reps or some combination of both, the app is going to make things just a little bit incrementally more challenging. If I was an app user, like you hopefully will be, mm-hmm, paying the money, then I would just hit those numbers exactly. If you're really feeling your swag, can you change the goal and hit more? Yes. If you're really under the weather, can you change the goal and do a little little less? Yes. But when you make those changes, the app will actually try to auto fill that as well. So for example, let's say the app is asking you to do, you said a hundred pound dumbbells for one arm rows. You did a set of 10 or whatever sets of 10. Next week the app is going to be like okay, sets of 10, but 105 pounds and you're like, ah, app, some idiot broke the 105's at my gym, so actually only have the 110's. If you hit 110 in there or you say, you know, that's a big jump for me, fuck that. You auto correct the app, you just click, actually fuck. I'll just do that right now. Let's say it's a barbell bent over row and we have 25 pounds selected. Then what you're going to go in there and be like, yeah, so 25 is what I'm supposed to do and there'll be a little target emoji here. I'm just going to go back to 20. Whatever reps it has picked for you there, let's say if originally it was planning for you doing 105 for 10, because last time you did a hundred for 10. If you go and say, now I still want to do a hundred, but it's week two. Instead of 10, that rep will display to 11, because it says, okay, you lowered the weight. By my jacket you up anyway, so you get more reps. Why? Because the app wants to keep you untrack to keep going up. Now you can always manually just reduce your reps and say, fuck that, I'm just taking an easy day and the app's like, hey, cool. But it wants you to progress. So even if you don't have the right weight increment to hit, if it's close to the right increment, the app will still hook you up to all the calculations under the hood and make sure you progress by the same margin be it weight or reps or some combination of both. So if you budget and it's pretty close together within 10 or 20% of the weight in either a situation or 10 or 20% of the reps, it's going to correct that for you. If it's weight out of range, it'll just be like, hey, I'm not really sure what to do. It'll just put up RIR. It'll be like, weight, whatever you did last time or more, and then RIR is two RIR or one RIR or zero depending a week. And then you're, you can look back a week earlier. It's actually really easy to do because you hit this little counter icon thing and whatever you are on today, you know, say all the days are displayed as Monday. That's sweet. I must have screwed up when I was making that oops. So you go back to this day, you click on it and it'll be like, oh, this is what I did here and it's super easy and navigate. Again, that's unusual. That's if you pick a weight really far away from the one you did before and then that just doesn't know the reps. You can look back and then, I'll use flits because you're building, well, I don't even know how to make this calculation. Then just go however close to failure the app says and you're totally good to go. Right. Lastly, point number five. There's a lot of stuff. Do not overthink reps in reserve. Just try hard in the first week, but don't kill yourself. The app will tell you next week what to aim for. There's no need for self doubt for doubling back and re-correcting just run the process and the algorithm will take care of all the rest. And if you're training without the benefit of the RPA, purger fee app, then just don't overthink our error right here in your notebook or whatever tracking up you're using right down your weights and reps and next week just add a little bit. If you just keep adding a little bit and all of the benefits will be yours that all trespass the facility of like, wow, was that two RR? Well, one and a half RR? Don't even fuck with it. That is a journey with no end, no pot of gold at the end of the rainbow. So that's it for today's video. Get down in the description, click on the by-link by-stuff goddammit or sign up for the exclusive list. And next time in the next video, we will cover about how to manually change loads in the app, but the educational part other than of course teaching how to use the RPA purger fee app is going to be how to determine what's too heavy and what's too light and how to make intelligent corrections because sometimes what you didn't make one seem good, but then in week two you're like, man, I can do a trillion reps of this. Sometimes your body adapts really quick and nervous system will insorally fast. Maybe you're having a really bad day in week one and you felt really sick and tired. And then in week two, you're actually back to normal and you're like, man, this is too fucking easy. How do I make the adjustment? We'll talk about that next time. And I'll see you then.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization, continuing on with our series about specializing on a particular muscle group. Today's video is the one you've been waiting for dying for. You've been in the tiny little makeshift tent in the great war, writing back from the front to grandma. And you're like, we're shelving in today. Also, can't wait to train my calves again on a specialization program of good old days. In any case, calf growth programming, specializing in calves is a curious curious idea. Because generally speaking, we have a couple of ways we ultra programming in order to specialize on something, the biggest of which is that when you specialize on anyone thing, you reduce the training for at least some other things. Because your body system only has a certain finite ability to recover, finite ability to train really hard. So if you really want to bring up your quads or something, you get to ease up on all the other stuff, just to make room for that sort of thing. And with calves, like with forms and maybe even like with traps. You know, gee whiz, there's really small systemic component. So there's not a lot of moving stuff around. And as far as the prioritization stuff or specialization, like why would you want to specialize calves, the answer is also quite obvious, is because you want bigger calves than you have now and probably bigger calves than the relation to the rest of your body, or at least keeping your calves caught up. You don't want to be the super jack guy who will come with God man, how much do you, oh, shit, hell happen to your little leg bro, or crocodile accident. That's the one calf, the other calf's alligator accident. It's really kind of an incident because I attack the alligator. Well, we got my calf all right, but I have the fucking rest of him. Every time I close my eyes, I see, so God damn stupid face. In any case, yeah, getting big calves is a bit more straightforward there. And the else so let's get we're a lot of the formalities here and just cut right to the chase. But just to review the basic specialization, this is important because people seem to have this thing with calves where they copy and paste the programs that are effective for other muscles, instead of deriving the program a new from principles. The big difference here is that if you just copy and paste something, it could be very inappropriate for its task. For example, if you shoot a rifle like this and you copy and paste the exact technique of shooting a rifle, except with a shoulder mounted rocket grenade launcher, you're going to do this. And the fucking barrels going to be pointed in a shoulder, you will shortly have no shoulder. But if you take the principle of firing something, two principles, one, grab it in a way that is possible to aim it well and two, make sure it doesn't hurt you. You will put the RPG up here instead of down here. So it's a good thing to transfer principles instead of exact templates. Those exactly how to train my chest. I'm just going to train my calves for a variety of reasons that doesn't work very well for calves and that's one of the small reasons why most people walk around with tiny fucking calves. The biggest reason is there is no fucking bother training them. All right. So real quick, basics of specialization as applied to calves and everything else, of course. First is you want to choose exercises and modalities and repranges that preferentially stimulate the target muscle. Notice, does not mean you should that work for other muscles, but you should that works well for your calves. Prioritization, this is a big one. Train the muscle first or early in all the days in which you train it. Because you know, you want to be fresh. The thing is, almost never, is that done for calves? Caves, almost by definition and afterthought. Caves is insured you do when you're fucking annoying training partner. You're like, you know, you're done. You fucking got a chest pound by support me like, look, yeah, let's get to the club and fuck at the club, down the open with people, with consenting people. And your training partner is like, oh, no, do we have calves left and over and you're like, fuck, point extra, get out of here. Nobody wants to do calves, but the reality is if you want the biggest calves possible, you can't have that attitude. You should probably train them first or early. Now the good news is, if you train your calves first, especially before upper body, get really interfere with anything. It's just a checklist that I didn't get out of the way. And that's going to be a theme we're going to carry through much of this video. You just got to get it done. Calf training isn't fucking warfare. You need to paint your face into fucking camo colors. Just has to get done, but that just has to get done is something a lot of people aren't going to do. Frequency. You're only speaking higher frequency works. Better for specialization. This is especially true of calves in many cases. Get to what that means in just a bit. Now the last point here is the non-specialized training reduction. You're really going to have to do a whole lot of that. What you probably don't want to do is train calves before you train like quads or something. And then your calves are super pumped and super fucking tired and your stability and your limiting factor on like leg press, hacks, lots of squat, trends into like your calves, which you don't want. But other than that, like really don't have to make a whole lot of adjustments. So when you're constructing your specialized plan, you are hopefully doing what I'd very now, feverishly taking notes. Frequency. Four calves is going to be pretty high for most people. Now the reality is frequency is derived like it always is, you give a standard dose of training two to six sets in the first session in the first mesocycle while I closer to two, two, three or four sets. And then you see how long it takes for you to no longer be sore and be very strong again a few days later. And then you train again. And that's sort of organically determines how often you train and then you modulate the volumes to make sure you recover on time all the time. That's definitely the critical principle behind calf training and all training actually. For most people, they're going to be able to hit their calves pretty hard, get a good pump, get a good weakness and everything like that. Come back and hit the calves again. Oh, one to two days later, which means a three or four time a week split is usually pretty sound. Your calves may heal slower than average. Some people, their technique, my muscle connection is so good with calves and actually they have pretty decent calf genetics. Maybe they didn't know about it as they never trained them. But if you have pretty good calf genetics on average, you will get more sore and for longer from training calves. So sometimes people can get really good calf training just training their calves hard twice a week. That's totally a thing. But if that's you, that means after each training session or calves are tired and fucked up and sore for like two to three days after every session. Not like, oh, I trained calves yesterday and friend is like, oh, how are they feeling? You're like, I'd fucking jump up and not a thousand times today. I don't, I can't feel shit. Well, you need to be training calves again, either today or tomorrow. So if you are a low frequency calf trainer, it's going to be a abundantly obvious to you because you're going to get real fucked up from training calves consistently, time and time again. Now, on the other end, you need to be an individual that trains calves five or six days per week. That is not a goal. But if that's something you want to do necessarily, it's something that you just end up fucking doing. Right? I'm going to make the worst analogy. Maybe I've ever made. That's that true. One of the worst analogies I've ever made, you know, um, you could ask somebody when maybe a specialist in this field, like, I'll like a sex therapist or something like, how many times, you know, per week should I be dangling? Like anyone who actually knows things will never be like as often as possible. That's fucking ridiculous. That is like, your janitals are worn out. You're not having any more fun and you're still doing the thing. You're like, Tata, here I am and she's like, hey, you love in this. You're like, no, if the check-in, you feel my dick, God damn it, get on here. Right? The correct answer is whenever you're good, well, and ready to have some fun again, and you're physically capable, hit it. If you're going to get that to the ideal frequency. It's a very similar thing with calf training, other training as well. You're not trying to train calves six times a week because you get some kind of fucking gold star and you get huge calves and you're going to see if you can see those calves. That's a six-time, a week calf right there. No way. Because if you training good calves, means they're sore for two or three days, six times a week training is fucking stupid. And because of how fiber types and genetics for growth and stimulus work, the people that need to train their calves six times a week, put another way. The people that can recover ultra rapidly, or probably on the slower twitch end of things, they can't leverage the calf to do a lot of mechanical damage. And they may for other reasons not being able to provide as high stimulus as other people. So then there are going to be the ones ready to train calves every day, but they're going to be training calves six days a week for a result that will be unhaven, not as remarkable as someone who trains calves twice a week. And this is one of the biggest reasons that we made these videos for you guys. And there's an intellectually really sort of high watermark here of be careful copying people with big XYZ muscle. Look, if someone has a big calf or something like that, I'm definitely curious about what they're doing. I'm not saying, you know, just ignore, I'm like, book, adult genetics, synth all, although in Jared Feathers case, it is all genetics. Just remember that everyone's different and you have to train your shit to how it's perfect for you. And that means that if someone are the amazing genetics, trains calves twice a week and they grow like weeds, that doesn't mean like obviously everyone with big calves trains them twice a week. And you guys will see this thing as a model carried over to other muscles. But anytime you look at someone who's training in a certain way and they're on social media and they read magazines and stuff and they watch YouTube, they'll be like, I train like this because all the top bodybuilders do it. Well, the top body will just have unbelievable genetics in a variety of ways. And you may not have those. And you may and then great, hey, you're seeing the pros, right? But you may not and your training may need to be different to a lot of us with not such great genetics need to train more frequently, not to make up for our genetics. But simply because we recover faster and we recover faster because our muscles are smaller, they don't take in as much damage. They're not as hyper-trafficly sensitive, thus you can repeat that process more often. So for calves, remember, the real critical thing is I guess three or four acts, two or five acts, you could read the slide and be like, what the fuck? What is the frequency? The frequency is fucking hit him hard. See how long they take to recover and then hit him hard again. That's it. Could be two, could be three, could be four, could be 17 times a week. A new program, RP 17, extra week, calf training, dot dot dot, are you ready? Question mark? You guys like that ad copy? Yeah. I'm kind of like, I used to be an ad vertending executive at a big company. I don't like to talk about it. I stood up morally against an ad they were putting out and it was like a silent exit so legal and not a lot of talk about it. Maybe I'll talk about it some other time. All right. So in any case, exercise, multiple angle calf raises means what? Really, it means like on a bunch of different machines. Leg press, hacksquat, calves, calves off the staircase, calves pointed this way this way that way. Any kind of variety you can use to spice it up. Except for seated calves. Anytime you have your knee bent, your gas truck muscle, the big diamond shape calf that you like to have, goes into insufficiency, okay, it becomes, you actually can't hardly generate an intention at all because it's sort of the muscle collapses in it itself a little bit. It's just a contract that already and it just doesn't do much. The seated calf, or as I like to call it, the double-dilled machine because there's inevitably double-dilled those for you to hold down to practicing for your day job. It's a cool machine to train your soleus muscle, which is deep to your calves and if it's really big, it makes your calves look like kinkles. I don't think anyone really ever wants a big soleus. I mean, they think they do, but they probably don't. The soleus also gets trained really well with a straight knee. So it actually isolating the soleus by itself with a bent leg is just unwise in most cases. If you could try it if it works for you amazing, but it probably won't. Nothing is that machine. It's just great to be able to sit there, relax, and do this momentum thing, and use 800 pounds or impress the girl that's also training calves. And it just doesn't do a whole lot. I just wouldn't do it. That's my recommendation. If you want to try it, sweet, I don't typically endorse the thing. Set numbers, of course, like everything else, two to six sets, a procession for calves. Start out there, see how it goes, start out in two to three sets. I wouldn't start with six. You would be able to not walk for a long time. And basically, you know, like when you have a pretty good pump, and it feels like a workout, you feel tired, you're strength is dropping. I would say that's enough for the first session. It's a very easy for a first session of calves to get the pump of your life, and be all happy about it, but then like for four days straight, your calves are hurting like crazy. Just miss out on quality training. You may do more damage than you can actually recover from. So you need to dip into your growth resources to recover, and then you get less growth. So nothing we want there. Here's a big one. Loading and reps. You want to use the repetition range as to get you the best stimulus to fatigue ratio proxies, which means the most tension in the calves, not the Achilles tendon. The most burn in the calves, big deal, the biggest pump in the calves, biggest perturbation, and so on and so forth. Well, at the same time, not fcking up your ankle tendons and not hurting your knee or whatever else you do. For most people, this is a well above 10 repetitions per set or a load that is in the 20 to 25 rep range, 15 to 25 rep range, on the first set or relatively light load. The thing about calves is the amplitude of the movement is so small. The repetitions don't take very long. So in a set of five calf raises, the time spent generating tension is so little that it's not enough of a stimulus fry purgifian most cases. And also if you do in sets of five with calves, that just seems to crush the whole fcking area with mechanical tension and not really ever hit that muscle as well as it's supposed to be him. I remember Arnold saying something about how his calves didn't really start growing until he started using crazy heavy weights. I have a completely opposite view of that in my experience with lots of folks, including myself, is that most people benefit from much higher reps for calves and shorter rest and that seems to work a lot better than heavy. They might not be the case for you, but take this under advisement and follow your responses. If you get really good calf training with sets of 10, look, I'm not going to your job and kick dicks out of your mouth. It's a Martin Lawrence quote, by the way. That's awesome. But if you have always been doing sets of five to ten for calves and you're wondering why your calves have never grown and someone's like, do you want to try to set a 20? And you're like, fuck that's cardio. You may be missing out on the biggest calf stimulus ever. I used to train calves. Set's a five to ten with bent net knee and everything. And it did hardly dick. And then I started doing slowly gravitating and discovering that higher reps sets with straight legs are like fcking crazy and I started growing like crazy. And I have like decent sized calves for my frame. They serve to share match the rest of me. Why, why, why, why, why my nicknames in high school was chicken legs. I'm a good friend of mine. Thanks Ryan. Fucking asshole. But yeah, so this one of those like being able to see things from a slightly different perspective and not just doing the traditional shit. All right, progressing through the plan once you've built your plan will have a sample plan in the sector that you can work off with if you want. Set numbers of course, this aligns to strength and soreness. If you don't get soared all, you train again when you're strength is back to being pretty good. Recovered to do another hit another PR. If you do get sore, make sure you're never training through soreness. Once you're sore, you train again. But given that you have a certain frequency, it's the volume you have to control. So if you do three sets of calves and you just barely heal on time for the Thursday calf workout. Let's say Monday Thursdays when you train calves. Three sets of calves here on that Monday. You barely recovered. Next week, don't have any sense to stay at three. Right? If you did force sets of calves and your calves are still sore and there is a do three next time. And you lose muscle by going for four sets to three sets. You'll actually grow more because now the volume is more appropriate for what you actually need. If of course, you're recovering well on time ahead of time at a set here and there to make it so that you're recovering much, much closer to just on time. Rups and reserve started around three reps and reserve and worked your way up by adding a five pounds here to an half pounds here or one or two reps each week. A lot of folks will get into the situation where they'll say, hey, like for muscles like forms and calves, maybe in biceps, can't I just go to failure? Do I need to do three reps and reserve at the beginning? The research seems to suggest that reps and reserve are better than failure training, especially over the course of a multi-week program. Will you pay less of a cost going to failure from week one on all these exercises? Yes, because their systemic fatigue contribution is lower. But you'll still pay more of a cost than you'd have to if you did three reps and reserve and then went after that. So you shouldn't look at failure training as when can the excuse of I just want to go to failure be most valid? You should look at failure training as what is the optimal thing for me to be doing to get the most jacked? Right? And I guess maybe that's one of the differences that our channel here at RP is maybe different than some of the other channels in the fitness space. We're going to cut you guys the real deal and what actually fucking works the best and it will let you sort it out how much of that you want to do versus how much fucker you want to do and have a good time. Because I'm not against a good time. If you want to go to failure all the fucking time and training even though you know it's not ideal but you and your fucking iron brothers are getting in there and slain fucking dragons and shit to word up. Just watch where you swing that fucking sword got damaged. I'm doing ax squats over swing away from me. But yeah, fucking go to failure all that stuff. But just know that there's a trade off there between optimality and we'll call it emotional satisfaction. So just know that and no calves should not be trained to failure all the time. It just because something's easier to get away with doesn't mean you should do it. Right? You don't carry that logic through the rest of your life. All right, someone's like hey, you ever tried robbing that old lady that lives across the street? I quit the things wrong. Why? She's going to get away with like, hey, good point. Good point. Fuck that old lady. I won't literally but uh, she's she's your words carefully, Dr. Mike. You could get canceled at any time. That's one of those things where you get to to rob the old lady and the first thing you see is just like point blank shock into your face. You're like, I thought your lifeline lifeler thing was on and I was coming to check up on you. But I'm shy so I'm wearing a ski mask and I have a giant potato sack with a money sign on it. So just kill me. Grandma, fuck it. I've had a good run. All right, sample plan. What with this calf training? Ultra scientific shit. Look like Monday, you may do some machine calf raises. A lot of calf machines are very good. Some of the plate loaded ones from back in the day are fucking awesome because you're going to a ballery center extra. You can really place your feet and they don't slide around. It's really good stuff. Machine calf raises just two sets of 15 to 30, 15 to 20 reps, three RIR. I remember this is week one, really using into it. And you rest between the sets and two you'll feel pretty strong again. So this is slightly heavier, harder work set for sets. You might rest like a minute or 45 seconds between sets. You'll rest less in the other days. Wednesday, single, stair or single calf, stair, dumbbell raises to be stand a stair, stairway, grab the handle, grab dumbbell, and you just maybe put one of your feet up on a higher step or just take one foot and put it up behind you like this and then do single calf at a time, switch dumbbell, switch stair, and go right into that other calf, no rest. Why? Because it's not systemically straining. I can't get out of breath doing that. And while one of your calves is getting hit, the other one is resting automatically. And calves require very little rest. So it's awesome. This is great. Calf training is here's a huge benefit. I wasn't going to mention this. It's good to mention. Scientifically optimal, quote unquote, really good calf training doesn't have to take a long time because the rest intervals are so small and because you ever need one exercise for calves per day to get the job done. Then honestly, if you have like five minutes, literally five minutes, maybe ten, three or four times a week, you can maximally stimulate your calves such that doing any more doesn't add anything. I mean, that's the fucking hilarious irony behind calf training and tons of guys at the gym having small calves is I think a lot of them think, oh man calves, that's another muscle I have to fucking train and a hate training at bucket. It's going to take forever. It's not, it's really quite easy. Single-steer calf raise and then Friday, you get on the leg press, slide your feet down, turn it into calf raise and you do my reps, four sets of 20 to 25 reps on the first set and then all of them. Rubs drop off after. Next set is when the lactate clears and the pain is just barely gone, which a lot of times will get you back into that five to ten rep range for all the success of sets, but also it only takes like five or ten seconds for that to happen. So really calf training is like blow-torching the fuck out of your calves for five to ten minutes and then just fucking off. It's really you don't have to commit it time like that's not like that for all the other muscles. Can you imagine someone's like it's easy to bring up your quads just ten minutes a day, three days a week and you'll have huge quads like that's two of my hackswap wargups. The fact out of here. All right. Now that's week one, you'll notice two sets of shit, two sets, four sets, six sets, six sets, seven sets. It's a very common to get between five and eight sets with the same exercise for calves to tail end of the week are very good at recovering and you need to squeeze out more adaptation there. Of course, everything is it's your reps and reserve. Calf training is one of the motherfuckers of tricky because there are so many ways to cheat in calves. You've been your knees a little more, use a little more, um, a little more hop, even lift your traps a bit on the one of the calf raise machines that has the pads here and here. You want to be one of these, you sort of got yourself a calf raise. So just be honest, go slow, go for that eccentric control, that super stretch depth. We have other videos on calf training technique that'll help you out and uh, really just be honest of like if I tried the next repetition will it be the kind of repetition that I can film put on social media and people will make fun of me and be like what the fuck was if the answer is yes, do it. There's another rap. If the answer uh, just stop. You just get more reps on the next. A little bit. All right. How long can you specialize on your calves for? Well, honestly, uh, as long as you like as as long as every, you know, three or four mesocycles, you take a two week act of rest phase or a four week low volume phase where you barely train your calves at all. You just train them so that they don't get any smaller and then you could actually blast your calves all the fucking time. I mean, psychologically, it's probably good idea every once a year, once every two years, to take a few months of just maintenance calf training and that's super easy to do. You're just training calves with like two to four sets, two times per week and they won't go anywhere. They won't get any smaller unless you do it in fat loss phase and then you have to train hard. But if you do that in a mask-aing phase or an maintenance phase, no big deal and then you can sort of like get your passion for calf training back if there is such a thing at all. All right, that's all good stuff. Thanks, Dr. Mike. This has been fun, but what about some other shit? I want free shit, Goddamn it. I came on this channel. I even hit subscribe. So what do I get? Well, here's the thing. Exercise video library all the links are below by the way. It's free so you can look up a calf exercise and see how Jared Feather does them and my calves look like that. No, the answer is they almost certainly more. But they look bigger than they do now, which is nice. Muscle group training guide, huge detail, all about calves, all about how to train them. So if you really want the super broken down version of this for like,otic people that live in the basement or obsessed when that exercise and have no friends, get on that shit. That's free. I perturb you made simple videos or free. If you're like what the fuck is as far on that stuff, go look those up. They're right in the description. It's an awesome playlist. I have a picture of your book. It's not titled hip-hurt-hurt-hurt-hurt-hurt-hurt, but damn close. Scientific principles of hypertrophy training. If you are really nerdy and curious about the background, remember I talked about the principles of training and how you transfer principles and not exact processes. That's the book for you. Another cost of money, not a ton, but I promise it's packed full of value. And ever now to get when you read the book, little ads for a cologne fallout. And you can smell them. It's got the video you guys, do you remember magazines just to have cologne ads? They're perfume and cologne? You peel back the layer and then you smell it and it always smells so goddamn good. And then you got possibly an erection and then you tried to tell yourself in your head that it didn't matter if it was the men's cologne or the female perfume that got you feeling like that. It's just a good smell. Who am I to judge myself? If you guys don't know, we're talking about your younger, much younger, or normal human being that didn't steal people's magazines to smell the perfume. Anyway, lastly, if you want to build yourself a calf program or anything program, you can try out our custom training templates, the links down there. It's not free, but it's fucking pretty cheap. And it gives you an awesome program, reusing reusing reviews as many times as you're interested in. It's just good stuff. You know, it's good stuff. And get out of there and get you one of them, shit's get you sorted. So that if you and I ever see each other in the street, I'll notice that you're jacked and I'll be like, and you'll be like, hey, custom training template. Yeah. All right, guys, thanks for tuning in. See you next time. I have to go train calves for the 16th workout of the week. That's right, we're back to that. See you next time.

Oh, yeah. That's it. Which weighs off, don't you? Oh, no. Oh. Oh. I'm gonna do it. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NSS Cruisization. That's Jared Feather, I have to be pro. This is Dylan White. And he is. Are you a madman? Are you a maddie pro? Yes. A natural pro? Oh, sorry. He was a natural pro. Any still is? Oh, what? Double eye wink. You always are, but you can't come back and do any more shows. Why? One reason. Look at them shoes, man. They literally don't let you compete. Look at them fresh like that. I'm just got that white on white. All happy feelings for now, but Dylan is here to do a high-perrophy high-volume leg workout. And when he walked in, he was like, hey, I was like, what's on the agenda? He's like, my rep match for leg press. And I was like, I was like, I was like, what? What? Did you just say my rep leg press? He said no, my rep match leg press, which means whatever reps he gets in that first set. He has to do with his many reps breaks as he can without racking the bar. Get the same number of reps every single set after for how many sets now? Three. And that resescalcogen program. As whole coaches present, asshole in general, as present, Bill and the nice guy, a real fucking salt to the earth mid-western type by the fucker. While it was asked on the socials, if he survives a sprocket. And if not, go down there and perform Instagram takes as a countdown because these daddy's just say, alright, P. Let's get the training. After you finish your first set, I want you to reach over if you can. If not, I'll just come over and help you and go immediately to the 90. You're going to do as many reps as you can with the 90 after five distance seconds rest. And then immediately each of the 70 can do the same thing again. That'll be one set. My. Actually, let me send you a control, Bill and we are not racing for numbers. Every rep is its own, every rep is high quality. And you're just enjoy the ride. So for leg curls today, we're not going to do straight sets. We're not going to do my rep matching. For leg curls, we are going to do mini drop sets. So what's going to be each set is going to be however much the guys can do very close to failure with whatever weight they chose. Without moving out of the machine, we're going to change that weight to be about two notches lower. Something like 20 or 30 pounds lower depending on the machine. They're going to rest five to ten seconds. Get it again. One match lower, hit it again. Close to failure each time. That's one set. The good news is like, you might not need more than like two or three sets like that. And then they're going to be cooked. But that's something to try on your training just a little bit of variation a little bit of a metabolite drive. It's really tough. But as they say, It's worth it. I don't know. I'm not doing this workout. Fuck them. Two more are we do a drop. Slow control one more. Slow control. Drop relax. Take your feet out for a second. Kick up rest. Nine. One go. Ten. Two more. Two more. Ten bolt to join. You got this shit on fucking day. 11, one last one coming up. Control. Oh shit, Dylan. Slow. Racks stand up for a sec. Shake it out a little bit. My man. Run towards the pain. The pain is where the growth is Dylan. We want nine. My man. Three more. Amazing. Last one coming up. Convincing and flow on the way down too. Slow. Slow. Slow. Gentle. That's it. Oh. Oh. All right. That was actually. That was a slow set. Yay. Fuck. I don't know if any of you guys have this. But I had the ACL surgery a long time ago where they took a hamstring draft. This exercise sometimes makes me cramp up a little bit. Why do them, don't you? I really like this eccentric on a lying leg curl over a seed leg curl or a head pinch. It's one of the exercises where I actually get a pump in my hamstring. Just one of the only ones I feel that. So I'm going to try that much time under tension. Like is going to cause a cramp. But I'm going to try the drop set stuff. I can't get through all these drops. I'll do my right matching on my next set. But I want to do this. We'll see it's going a little crampy today, but I'm going to try it. My best of my abilities. And match that level of intensity, holy shit. Jones a fucking animal. Hell yeah. There it is. How the fuck are you doing from me in their second? Jones a freak pro. This is the only way you fast with your passion. Let's the drop more. Let's go baby. You're good. Not many raps man. Slow. You're good. The rest is a little longer this time. It's in a shot. Oh, look at that bottom. Oh my god. Beautiful. Look at that eccentric. Fast mind muscle in the industry. One more gear and you got this. Go. Nice shot. That was close. Good shit. Lying leg curls is the first exercise. First of all, why? It's kind of weird. You show up to do hamstrings or quads. And most people would be like, well, let's get the hard heavy shit out of the way. First. And I'll say getting the hard heavy shit out of the way first is cool. But the problem is once you get really big and strong like doing, if you do my rep match leg press and then squats after the amount of throughput energy you have for hamstrings after is so decreased. It's just hard to train the hamstrings. You're just weaker, systemically. You can't sum enough neural drive to the hamstrings anymore. Just for hours, you're going to do a wreck. Now, let's think about fought experiment the other way around. If you do hamstrings for a lying leg curls, can you really still sum enough fucking willpower and neural drive to do a hard quad session? That's absolutely. As a matter of fact, after leg curls, you kind of feel a little bit warmed up. The muscle doesn't really actively interfere with anything, so we're good to go. So a little trick is sometimes you want to do the easier stuff first, as long as not a limiting factor for the next stuff. And then do the hard stuff and then just leave. Because the kind of a fundamental idea here is that once you do the hard shit, you don't do shit after. Certainly nothing that we're constantly doing robust stimulus. Resist. Go on, Jill. All the way down. Two more. All the way down. Last one. Yes, slow. Resist, don't let me pull it down. And then slow all the way to the touch. That's it. I am new. Awesome. Awesome. So Dylan here might look familiar to a lot of you long-term subscribers of the RP channel, because you also got to follow him indirectly through us bringing him onto the channel and me being his coach for the last few years. Dylan was a natural pro once a natural pro shows super high level and competitive. As over the course of eight to ten years of natural bodybuilding, you decided to hit it. I want to make the leap to the next stage. So we're actually preparing Dylan for an NPC national show to potentially get a knife and you pro card. Since you last saw Dylan, he's put on about 20 pounds of muscle. So you know, you don't exactly do that at the end of an natural bodybuilding career. Take depth of what you will. What's the natural in every other video we ever did? 100% 100% 100% natural. Never did anything. Absolutely crazy. I think on stage you were in the 1998, when I was 171, I was the same for an out-for-body So now we're going to put this motherfucker on stage like 220, receiving an IPU pro card. Mr. Dylan is going to be doing four plates. I think Arsenal like press, as far as I can tell, probably the best. I press on the market, they're very close. And it's going to be a super huge, full range of motionals in gentlepaws at the bottom. He's going to try to do something like 15 to 20 reps. And he's warmed up. He's ready to go. He actually warmed up by doing four 55 for a set of four. This is a great strategy. You want to use if you want like your first set. He's weaker something to be a real big set. You want to feel great on your first set. Your last warm to be at 110% or something like that. Of your first work set. Mind muscle connection with the technique, the SFR goes through the roof. With that smaller weight is now just easier to handle. He is going to try to do something like 20 reps. Very close to failure. Straight set. We'll see if that works out. Maybe it's going to be 15. And then after that, all of the remaining two sets he has left, we're going to try to match that number. No matter how many little miles rep, five to 10 seconds breaks with his knees locked out, he has to take a stay tuned. Aim is inbound. Two more. Grow time, Dylan. Ooh. Grow time one more. Thou. Big chest. Sink a deed. Up. Rack. Ooh. Twenty two is a hell of a number to start with my man. Are you going to match these? No, no. You're going to match these. I'm just going to stand here and bitch. I'm going to make some huge difference. Are you taking that half-sick and pause at the top? Yes. Getting a full contraction. Yes. The other difference is... Maybe he's into the pump. Yes. The other difference it makes is that it gives you a half-second to rest. And people think like, oh, that's pussy shit. Like, no, no, no. That means you do more reps on the same set and makes it worse. Give that a shot, folks. Good news, Bad news. Good news is we're so much to watch, Dylan, fucking die. It's gonna be great. Bad news. I've been, feel as you don't know, I started a prep. And then it started pretty rough. Right. Pretty rocky. So when we're water compartmentalization issues, dry joints, let's go back into your while it's sleeping, which is in the gym. Fortunately, my legs are a strong point of mind and I'm on my last accumulation week of my Necesycle. So just for you all, this will help some of the more nerdy followers who give us you to about this stuff. I'm going to move this into a light session or maintenance volume session for me. Probably there's a couple sets of 20 for the quads, which, again, quadrass strong point in mind, this is going to be plenty of volume for me. Probably five plates, couple sets of 20. And then we'll just keep killing Dylan basically. But for those of you that run into these types of issues, whether it be injury or the local musculatures and recovering on time, these types of light sessions are good to throw in. And they'll actually promote a little more recovery. So you'll notice I'm be wearing my belt and all kinds of funky shit because I'm just trying to protect my lower back as much as possible. I can completely call it right now, but I don't think the injury is bad enough where I really need to. I want to still get some quad volume in. So for me, couple sets of 20 plate press, Dylan, he's going to die the rest of the time. Let's do it. We're not so good. Big push. Big push. Yeah, let's go. Two more. Yeah. One more. Come on Dylan. D. 3, 3 injured on. Let's go. Excellent. Yep. Oh yeah. That's it. Which way's up, Dylan? Good stop man. Good technique. You're doing some sharp strokes. Oh yeah. Last two. Come on up. Take your time with these. One and one. Last one. Good high quality shed here. Big moves. Back. 22 amazing. Oh. That's it. Yeah. Good times. Hey guys, I want to take a minute to tell you about our team full-romb membership. You get six programs every six weeks. So depending on how many days we've trained, what muscle groups you would like to do, if you're a little specialized, we're generalized. We haven't for you any time that you do. If you need any sort of diet, we have five different diets. We have a muscle gain diet. We have a main and stied. A fat loss diet. Two different many kinds of options. A three week and a six. If you want to ask your question one way is you type it into the form and someone including myself and I feed pro-gere and feather. We'll get back to you. There are also weekly lives. You submit your questions to be answered and myself and gerad to weekly life to get everyone's questions answered in that form every single time. If you have a question about your squat technique, about how to program your next diet or training, anything that you need at all, we've got you covered. So come join us today and I'll see you guys there. This is beautiful doing. A few more. I'm not going to be a ton of these rough deluts or whatever. It's me from the Sheen squats. What we're going to have Bill and do is he's only going to use a plate on each side. Kind of a lot now because the squats are dead. But he's going to descend with a three or four second each center. And then at the bottom of the position, the bottom of the squat. He is going to hold for three whole seconds on each rep. A shitload of tension directly under an immense stretch. Ouch. Might not be that many reps here. But each rep is going to be so stimulative. It's going to make a huge difference to his muscle gains. Last thing we're doing here, probably two sets of this. Maybe one more if he's into it. One more Dylan. One more Dylan. We got this Dylan. Big chest. The last rep is going to be done right. One minute. Oh. Go damn you. That was fucking awesome. He's got the twitching. Just a little like a park shit. You know, talk that shit and how it is. All you long femur having motherfuckers who say you can't squat deep or leg press deep. Dylan's legs are like 65% of his fucking body. Look how long these things are. If you use a wedge, point your toes out correctly. Open your hips properly. You can get into deep positions in the squat. It might take a little wider stance. It might take a little bit more of a choke point out, but you can go deep. You're making fucking excuses because you don't like the pain. Up. One more Dylan. One more Dylan. Get it together. Rest for a second. Go. Up. Come on. Drive. Drive. Drive. Drive. Drive. Ragn. Step out. Don't go anywhere. Step out. Arms up. Arms forward. Full deep squat and sit at the bottom. Slow and sit. Pause right there. Don't go down. Don't go up. Keep it. Keep it. Chest up. Up. That's it. Cool. That's tough. How's Brent? I get out. Jump. Jump up. Just try. Just try. My man's got. Up. Maybe. Hey NBA. Where do you at? I don't know if you're so sick. Like I think you just wiggled your body. We think Dylan, when you got stayed at the camera. Cook. I don't want to waste it. Dylan, amazing job. You're the fucking man. Jared, you do what you could today. You still have big calves. That's all that matters. And you're still in the same way attractive generally. And you're injured. You're real real. Very soon. You'll be back to back to grinding in no time. Honestly, you can feel like it can feel shitty to be hurt. I've been hurt a ton. Right now, it's hard for me to raise my arm because it's too. What's that? That's not right here. Hard to break. We're getting deep. But what's actual like this? We'll see you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pyrridsation and today's video is about how to use machines in the gym best to grow muscle and get the most optimum training that you can. Here's the deal. Machines can work super, super great for training. But while three weights automatically conform to your body structure and position, if you're five foot one versus if you're six foot six, the bench press, the row, the squat, they fit your body no matter what because your body determines the trajectory. Yes, some taller people with red limb ratios have trouble with some lifts, but a lot of times simple corrections can totally remediate. Machines are built for a specific range of heights and often even not very well. And the machine does not have sometimes any degrees of freedom or very limited one. So this is a big reason why sometimes a lot of machines are really tough to get a good feel out of to get a very good stimulus to fatigue ratio to get a good tension pump burn while minimizing joint and connective tissue stress. However, we do have tips for you here in this video how to get the most out of your machines if you train yourself amazing. Welcome, this video will be awesome for you, but especially if you're a personal trainer and you train clients, this can really help you optimize your use of machines for clients of all different shapes in size. Remember, the machine is still limited and especially shitty machines can only be optimized so much, but working with whatever machines you have, you can do better and you can do so with at least five of the following tips. First, range of motion really is good for muscle growth, especially range of motion at the stretch. So you can set up a lot of machines to get that range of motion out of them. For example, if you have a chest press machine, a lot of times the back pad has a selectorized moving implement into which you can set the back pad to be recessed back or progressed forward. If the implement only come down solo, you can push the chest pad up and all of a sudden you can go deeper. If that pad does not exist, which you can do, just take one of those like purple yoga pads, which if you don't know what that is, literally Google, purple yoga pad, and Amazon will show you all the options. It's the purple yoga pad when it comes up on Google Image Search. Watch GBT's do all this by the time the video is out and people are like, what's Google Image Search? Goddamn, the young ass tick-tockers, you take the yoga pad, you put it behind you, and all of a sudden that's two extra inches for your range of motion, which is something you can probably benefit from in other areas of your life. Booting. Shhh. I'm here all day folks. Another idea is many hamstring curls, specifically lying leg curls, they just don't have that stretch at the bottom for your hands, but courtesy of Mr. Trevor Fullbright, who runs our team full-round for him for us. You put a yoga pad below your thighs right on top of the machine, lay down on it, and all of a sudden that's two extra inches that you are moving in a very stretched, highly loaded position for your hamstrings. It can make that machine and many others a ton better. Of course, leg press is the quintessential one here. For leg presses, pattern to the lower back prevents your back from rounding and increases the range of motion. So if you lean the back pad as far as it goes, put some yoga pads or mats under your lower back, that can take a shitty leg press or a decent leg press and make it into a good leg press or even a great leg press. Next, when you are training on machines, the machine is not going to be conducive in most cases to rapid ballistic concentrics. Especially if you're a power lifter or someone from a strength training background, it's okay to push the dumbbells up on a dumbbell press really fast. Totally cool. But on a machine a lot of times you'll get more out of the movement if you don't know so much think about slowing down the machine but being controlled with it. Really having that control, because the machine already puts you into a specific arc, controlling and really trying to connect with your muscles, maybe a much better use of your time than actually trying to be ballistic with. Number three, this is huge. If you get a machine and you try it for a set and you're like, ah, feels off, don't just leave. Experiment with different grip positions, with different foot positions, with different body positions to see how you can maximize the use of that machine. You can even do the set to set to set, as you warm up. You warm up with a wide grip on this pulled-down machine thing and you're like, you're up with an air grip, second set, you're like, you warm up with a medium grip and you're like, okay, okay, okay, that feels best. My joints feel pretty good. I can feel my last stretching, now we're in business. What you're going to be doing as you're warming up and even as you're using the machine over several weeks is playing with your position of your body and every all the limbs that you're moving and even the settings and the machine like moving the chest pad and the butt pad and everything is you're going to be looking for the stimulus to fatigue ratio, proxies, things like, does one of the positions get you better pumped than the others? Does it get you better tension? Does it get you better burn the target muscles and is one of the positions or some of the positions better for your joints and connective tissues? Maybe you set the skull crusher, we're trying something you machine on a certain setting and every time your elbows are creaking like, how, how is a stupid? If you raise the seat all of a sudden you're in their jamming and you're elbows feel great. That's some stuff to look for instead of just abandoning and being like, this is a terrible triceps machine. Maybe it is, but you haven't really given it to diligence yet. Point number four is to be open-minded about set and rep range and modality possibilities for machine. Yes, if you lie down and do two sets on a hamstring curl for sets of 10, you may not get a whole lot of anything out of it and be like, this is a fucking stupid waste of time. I could do two sets in a stiff leg, I'd done a good morning and my hamstrings would be that for five days, true. But hold on a sec, that machine also does a fatigue you much and it doesn't take as long to do a set of leg curls as it does to set up, walk out, do a set of stiff leg and other walk back in, sure shit you don't have to load weights on the bar, just select rise. So now I'm a leg curl, try three or four or five sets. Try a different modality. Like a myorat match. For example sets of 10, but every time it's a set of 10 and if you get two tired, you set of 10, do as many reps as you can and then finish up the set with as many reps as are left over. First set of 10 really close to failure. Second set you get eight, rest for a few seconds, then get the other two, that's 10. Next time you do six, rest two, rest two, that's 10 total. That multiple times bringing close to failure is nothing you lever need out of most freeway movements because they're more stimulative, but on a machine that's not so stimulative you can really really milk it out. And the other thing is to be open-minded about repetition ranges. You know, sets of 10 on a stiff leg are a bit amazing, but on a hamstring curl sets of 10 could be like, I'm just not contracting the muscles for long enough to do a whole lot of anything. Try sets of 15, try sets of 20. I'll have a sudden that provides great variation, something different than you do with your stiff leg and leg abud lifts, but at the same time it's zapped your shit and it works. Lastly exercise order. You may use leg extensions for example as a first exercise and it's like not a lot going on here. I don't just get tired and I'm tired for my squats, but if you try leg extensions after squats or leg presses as a, and I hate to use this chair, this is a bullshit term. Finish or just a second or third exercise, you can find that okay, wow, now that I'm warmed up now that I feel stronger now that my joints are good, I can really milk the last little bit of burnout of my leg extensions. So then you wouldn't use leg extensions as a prime mover, sorry, as a first exercise, really big movement, but you wouldn't write them off completely either, you would say, hey, they're great, but maybe as a third movement or as a second movement in my quadriceps routine. At the very end, once you've done your due diligence, you've tried all these things. Some machines you'll be able to get a lot out of you. Like, oh my god, think I did these things because man, this leg press now I can really get a ton out of. Other machines you'd be like, it's a fine machine to do for a month's cycle or two with all the alterations that I've been doing, but it's never going to be a rock star machine. And then three is you could just totally dog ship machine that you don't want. You want to try at least a few sessions usually a mesocycle with a machine and it'll be able, you'll be able to tell which one of those categories you can place that machine. And if it's really category three, it's just fucking still sucks, fucking abandoned ship, go use all the other machines, be like, yeah, the machine just blows dick, maybe come back to it or hear it to from now your body will be different, your leverages, your technique, you might be able to figure something out about how the machine works to make it better. And then you could try it again. So don't necessarily write it off forever forever, but feel free to confidently write it off for at least a while. Because look, some machines are just built by people who don't seem to know biomechanics, the human body, or basic mechanical engineering principles. Crazy how that works. Folks, thank you so much for tuning in. If you want more nerdy stuff, we will see you in the members section. And if you want extra super nerdy stuff, including personal reaction with me, you guys know how people do feet picks on only fans. I do eye picks. It's really close ups of my eyes. Whoa, how many veins are in there? A ton, but I can't tell you exactly, you'd have to pay. See you in the team full-round forum. That link is below. Plus, you get crazy discounts on our P products and you also get diet and training and fall along with the rest of us. Thank you so much for tuning in. Like, subscribe, swipe. See you next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Predization. Today's video is to figure out if you have been bulking for too long and then what to do about it. So there are nine signs of excessive bulking that I can think of just nine miraculous planets aligned sort of situationally. It's there's eight planets now, whatever. Here we go. None of these by themselves for sure tell you you are overbulked. But all of them in their own little way combine to build an argument for the fact that maybe you're overbulked. So here they are. No particular order, they're all matter. First, you have lower energy than usual, often due to a higher bodyweight. And by energy, I mean the ability to spring up and bounce around and get stuff done. If you normally have to take out your mail and go drive to work and do this, do that walk the dog. If you're huffin and puffin and you're dragging your feet because you weigh so much more than you used to and you're kind of fat and out of shape, that's a sign that you whizz it. Maybe time to pull back on the bulk. Yes, as you grow over the years, you will get a little bit less mobile and a little bit less energy. But it's a sign that you've been bulking way too long in the past a little bit because you've gained so much weight that it's physically slowing you down in a big, big way. That just a little bit feeling you're heavier weight, but like holy shit, I'm not ready for this lower back as cramping, my calves are cramping. I can't barely walk around. It's too much. Next one. This is a big one. It's tough to get even very tasty food down. Let alone be hungry. I've gone through periods of massing where for eight weeks straight, I don't remember what hunger felt like. I don't wake up hungry. I don't go to bed hungry. Every single meal occurs before hunger sign wings is telling me that I need to eat the next meal. I don't even know what hunger is like. That's okay if you're getting all your food down and everything's going great. But if someone's like, hey, do you want to eat pizza? You're like, well, I don't know about pizza. And that happens all the time. Like, put pizza's super tasty. What the hell are you going to be hungry for? Interesting. And if it's not the tastiest food of the world, if you're normal foods that you have in pizzas, of course, just one of them. But if normal foods that you love, let's say you love sushi, you love burritos, you love ice cream, you love sugar, candy, you know, kids junk food. And all of a sudden, you're so masked out of your mind that you don't even like those things anymore. You like we're cram in a whole lot of nutrients down your gut, you might not be processing super well. So that's another sign that maybe it's a bit too far. Number three, if you back off and just eat like a protein sparing modified fast diet, like protein and veggies for a few meals a day, for basically like a day or a few days, you instantly lose like five to ten pounds of body water, ASAP. That means you're normally stuffing yourself so much. Your body is kind of like a chronic slightly systemically inflamed state, holding onto a crabwater water. And as soon as you pull back on that, you lose a shitload of water weight all the same time. That means you're pushing it really hard, which means it's maybe time to slow it down a bit. And to that end, when you do pull back and you eat very little, typically let's say you're in the middle of a diet, fat loss diet. You pull back to just protein and veggies, like a thousand calories a day. You're not going to feel better after two days. You're going to feel way worse. But you can tell if you're overmast or just bulking for too long. If you pull back to just like some veggies and some lean meats for a few days, and you're like at the end of those few days, you're like, I feel so incredible. I feel so great. I don't feel bloated. I don't feel tired. I feel free and fresh food tastes like food again. That means you're probably have overnada. If like basically a protein-sparing modified fast feels better than not, you might be overdoing the bulk. Next, all of your daily meals you're trying to get in. You are so full when you're trying to fall asleep at night from your last meal and the one before that stacked under it, the one before that stacked under it in your GI tract that you have a tough time falling asleep or that sleep is disturbed. You wake up super hot at night for example, actively digesting your food, which ciphons off heat or, sorry, puts out heat. That's a sign that if you have to keep gaining weight, what the fuck are you supposed to do? Where do you add more food? You're already like, if we do the analogy of filling up your gas tank in the car, there's already fuel coming out of the fucking spigot where you put it in. You're like, there's nowhere left. There's nowhere left to put anymore food. So much that I'm eating so much food that even by the time I'm supposed to be going to sleep, I'm having trouble in the ushing in its interferome with my sleep. That's kind of a hint to you like, maybe you're fine, but maybe it's time to do a fat loss phase or something to get rid of some of the excess weight so that you can eat a little less food and still successfully bulk. Point number five, you are hot all the time by itself now super concerned, but a point you can combine with the others to put in there and be like, okay, in the context of all of this it makes sense. For example, if you are, so other phenomena that are not by themselves instructive of anything, but in context are, if you are in a warehouse or something and you do a real serial killer on the loose, then you hear a female blood curdling scream. That probably means that someone's dying and either run towards them with a weapon or run or your bare hands or as fast as you can or run away from the scene as fast as you can, you assess the probability of you being the next person that is higher than you winning that confrontation with serial killer. However, if you are in a haunted house on Halloween and you hear a blood curdling scream, if you run away or try to kill someone, one of those you're embarrassing and you're in any it and two you're almost certainly going to get tried and convicted of assault and go to jail because that nobody that scream doesn't mean anything. It means that you're in a haunted house and that's just something they turn on with the audio file and it's a woman screaming. It's fake. So if you're just getting hot in general, that doesn't mean anything. But if all of these other things are lower energy and the usual because you're fat as fuck, the protein only stuff makes you feel amazing and you're also just running super hot where you're wearing like no clothes at all, you're in shorts and the winter and you're like, oh, it's shit. It's a hot outside. If you're like, it's 35 degrees, you're out of your mind. That shows you your metabolism is operating at a sky high level, which is cool. Unless you want to gain more weight, and you have to operate sky high and eat even more food on top of that. But if point number four is true that you have to eat so much food that you can't even fall asleep with too full of stomach, yeah, that's not a great sign and it means you're probably towards the end of your bulky phase. Another one is this is a big one. You look at your body and you kind of forget your and physique training or other people look at your body and they are like, oh, so you're like, powerlifting, you're like body builder and they're like, oh yeah, sure you are. I'm not sure you have muscles underneath that. What do I want my butt? I want to eat what? Now that titties and that forms just kidding. But like you're starting to look pretty ballooned out. Let's put it this way. There's no more clear abs if you ever used to have them and you're actually pinching off some like stuff. Where it's all psychological at this point. It turns out that physiologically even up to about 25% body fat for males and 30% for females. You are hormonally in a totally fine place to gain muscle and thus bulk. But aesthetically, if you're losing touch with anything that feels great to look at, it's probably tough to keep massing and you should probably back off. For example, there's a situation where, of course, we don't always want to look our contest best. That's crazy. That's an insane person. But like there's peak mass where you don't have any strations or details. You don't have any veins showing clearly. But your physique looks around and bubbly and full. You still have a decent shape. Your abs are a little blurry, but your outline looks good. And you're looking fuck yeah, I'm a fucking mass monster. That's totally cool. This is one level beyond that where you're like, do I lift weights or am I just a fat piece of shit? If you're getting to that point, you're for sure overbought. Why do I bring this up? A lot of people do the dreamer ball when they just start out with a unit ton of cookies and chocolate milk, which is all good. But they get so fat. They lose their passion for physique or just become to a point where they hate their bodies. You want to stop well before that. You want to stop your muscle gain phase when you're like, all right, I'm a little pudgy. And this is the furthest I go. That's totally fine. That's the end of the row. Number seven, you get platos and lifting performance on anti-gravity exercises in which you have to support your load against gravity as well as do the thing. Dead lifts, squats, bent rows, why? Because usually your lungs will give out, where your lower back will give out because you're a fat out of shape, piece of shit. And you get way way too fast, neither too fat and your body can't do that stuff anymore. This is a big one. If you're training performance is starting to suffer, you are too fat. You are overbought. You got their way too quick. You need to slow down how fast you get there or recycle back to get more fat off of your body. In your quest for bulking, you are not trying to get on a my 600 pound life TV show. You are always in everywhere a performance athlete, you're a bodybuilder, a power of your strongman, your recreational trainee who goes to the fucking gym into Claire's war on shit. You are not a person who is a, yeah, I would have done more, but my lower back, what are you looking to kind of fucking accountant as your first aid to gym? What are you talking about? It's your two out of shape to train, but the reason you got out of shape is because you're bulking to make your training better doesn't add up. You went too far and it's time to come back. Number eight, on average, if you've been bulking longer than 16 weeks at a time, all of these things are just a highly likelihood or higher likelihood of happening. So if you've been bulking for four weeks at a reasonable rate, half a percent a week or a quarter of anywhere between a quarter of a percent, if you're bodyweight added, to half a percent a week. So if you're a 200 pounds, anywhere between, you know, half a pound all the way up to a pound per week of petition gained. If you've been doing that for like four weeks of gaining, and you like some of these are like, yeah, number six man, I don't feel like my physique is great. I've got to cut it back, shut up. You're just being fucking weird. You have like whatever body dysmorphia, and you need to not up and just fucking stick to the masses. The only way you build muscle is long extended periods of surplus. You're not going to four weeks at a time, it's going to be a bad way to do the thing. You're just freaking out for no reason. But if you've been bulking longer than 16 weeks, you know, for sure you've at least been doing it long enough at that minimum end. And then if all these other points are coming up, well, okay. Yeah, I probably have been bulking for too long because I know at least of gone 16 weeks. If you've gone four weeks and you think you've got these things, maybe there's something there, but maybe you're just losing your fucking mind. Lastly, because you're on such poor shape and because you've been bulking and training hard for 16 or 20 or 24 weeks straight, your body's training systems are so desensitized to hypertrophy that now you're doing tons of work and you're eating well, but you're perceived pumps, you're tension in the target muscle, the mind muscle connection, general, the burn, it just all feels blah and like you're burned out of training. The critical element to continuing to bulk is the training itself is of a high quality. If a training itself is fucking great and your body looks and performs normally, you can continue to bulk. But if you are so tired of hard training or reach that you cannot continue anymore with high quality training, why would you want to use low quality training and bulk off of that unless it was to make your life more difficult for no reason and also just get fatter because if the training is low quality, the amount of stimulus for hypertrophy it pushes in is less. But if the total calories coming in are still the same, the fraction of muscle, the declines, the fraction of fat built, grows. You know what that sort of thing? You don't want to have to answer the question of like, hey, how's your mask going? Again, man, shitty buck and training lately, but at least I'm getting fatter since okay, what did I hear that right? You don't want to be that person. So if your training is going like shit, and all the other things are going off, it's time to peel it back, which means you fix it, which asks the question of how and it's really quite simple. First, my big recommendation is to take an active rest phase after for about two weeks. Hey, if you need longer, you can take a four week low volume phase where you trade at one third of the volume you normally do. Either way, you line it up. At the end of that process, whether it's two weeks or four, you have to take your training fatigue and drop it super low because you need to train hard for this next phase that's coming up. And you can't just transition to completely beat to shit on a muscle game phase transition to a fat loss phase where you get rid of the fat, but you're still beat to shit. We need to cool off. Is taking an active rest when you're fat fun? No, because then at the end of two weeks, you're in a gas station and someone's like, hey, you ever think of training and you're like, yes, I train. When is the last time you train? You're like, two weeks ago. I'm like, oh, so you quit. Like, no, fuck, they're, whoa, looks like you don't train. You're like, I don't have time to tell I don't train. That's why I'm doing this act of rest so that I can get rid of the fatigue that I can get a fat loss diet going so that I can look like I train. So that I can look like I train. So that I come back in this gas station and throw when I'm fucking patty is off that roller shit right near face, motherfucker. And they're like, oh, oh, wow, you're really jacked. You're like, success. That's what you want. So you have to take a step back before you take a forward. You can try doing this in another way where you're super fatigued on training and just keep training through a cut. It will lead to not good things. You will get too fatigued. You hit hurt. Your muscles get smaller, all the other bad stuff. So once you are have reduced with a two to four week low volume phase, all of your training fatigue, the next thing is you take eight to 12 weeks and go into fat loss mode, fat loss dieting. Now I'm not saying mini cut. Why mini cut is not for when you are excessively overbalked. Mini cut is when you've had a good string of bulking, but the sensitivity is getting a little low, then you shed some weight, resensitize and go again. This is when you've just had enough bulking, no bulking for the foreseeable future because you're really way too fat, really not hungry enough. It's nothing a mini cut can solve. So think of it this way. A mini cut's like a weekend, and this thing we're doing now, the real cut is like a two week vacation. One of the simply refreshes you at a much deeper level. Eight to 12 weeks in a fat loss phase, that could be enough to where you're lean enough. In some sense, it's enough to where like yes, I'm hungry again. I'm excited about training again. My pumps are fucking awesome again. As soon as I get these carbs in it's great, at the end of that fat loss phase, you may be take two weeks of active rest again or just get right back into bulking. You'll be good for a while. Could be though, after that eight to 12 weeks of fat loss, you check to see if you're hungry and excited to mass again. And if you look good again, and you're like, honestly, no, no, no, no worries. Take four weeks of maintenance training and maintenance eating to really bring down the fatigue, even just in two week active rest can work. And then another eight to 12 weeks of fat loss dieting towards the end of that second phase, and maybe I'll take a third and maybe I'll take a fourth unlikely. One or two of those eight to 12 week phases will drop you down by she's five to 10 percent body fat. You're going to feel leaner. You're going to feel excited to eat again. You're going to feel excited to bulk again. You'll be an amazing cardio shape. And then you can start your next bulk butt. In order to minimize the chance that you get yourself overboxed again, please follow a couple of suggestions from me. I've done this all wrong. A bunch. I've also done it right. Let me share with you what I think is in the right way. A slower gain rate is probably better. I used to say fast gain rates were great. I was wrong. On the margins, of course. There are some people to gain. It really oddball super low rates like 1% per year. That's impossible to measure. It's impossible to do. But I would say half a percent of your body weight per week is a great slow gain rate. That means if you diet for 12 weeks, if you muscle gain phase bulk for 12 weeks, you might gain like six pounds. That's nothing. But if three or four of those are muscle, hey, that's fucking money in the bank. Then you can do a mini cut. Take care of all that three or four pounds of fat in a problem. Restart with zero added fat and just go up again. Up again and up again. And that slow gain will allow your new train partition to be excellent. It'll allow for you to eat healthier. It'll allow for you to gain weight seamlessly without any frustration. It'll allow you to do this without overheating and sure as hell, you will stay in amazing shape. And never get out of shape with a lower back, we'll get pumped, casual get pumped. You start throwing up from squats from sets of five. That does not have to happen because you're going up slow. So it's a slower is better. Especially if you're in a situation where you've overblocked before, try the slower approach. If needed, try more mini cuts. After eight weeks, you're feeling a little sluggish, mini cut for four. After another eight weeks, mini cut for four or six. After another eight weeks, maintenance, active rest, long cut restart the process. You don't have to bulk for 32 weeks straight with a constant surplus to gain muscle. If you do it for as little as eight weeks straight, you get a ton of muscle, mini cut won't touch your muscle. It'll burn off all the fat you gain and you just restart and re-go. That doesn't mean you need to me, mini cut every two or three weeks. That's insanity. But every eight weeks, every 12 weeks, you're fucking good to go. You don't need to go half a year or a whole year straight bulky. People sometimes do this to themselves. I don't really know why, maybe in psychological, but gamma and I'm going to do a bulk just the next 12 months, bro. Like, really, you expect to train hard for 12 months without a break? So, no, I'll take breaks with them. You're going to mess through those breaks. Well, no, I'll eat it, maintenance. So, then it's not a bulk that last, fucking 12 months. You're a fucking liar. We said that wrong at very, very best. So, definitely give that some shot. Give that some thought. More mini cuts. You don't need to just bulk forever. And if you are close to a bodyweight goal, but your body is really fatigued. The training is starting to really break you down. Just cut the goal short. Take some active rest. Take it easy. Come back and hit that goal. For example, I've seen guys get up to 197 pounds. And when they get up to 97, they're already, they're training as dog shit. There is such a crazy high-fiddle state. They can barely put the food down. They're sleep as total shit. It's a shitty environment for muscle gain. And they go fuck man. I'm so close to 200. Anyway, we are in order to cap real. Let me just touch 300 real quick. Sorry, 300, 200. Let me just get to 200. And they stuff their face and stuff their face and stuff their face for the last two weeks. While training is total dog shit. So, they had a fuckload of body fat that last three weeks. Barely any muscle at all if any. And then it's like, hey, would you do in the last three weeks? Like, well, I got to 200 pounds, bro. And they're like, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, how to go. But it's awful. I got only fat. Guys, if you want to get fat, anyway, is reasonable to get to people on my 600 pound life TV show, get to 600 in fucking pounds. Just eat only fast food and desserts. You will get as fat as you like. You're not trying to do that. If you're at 197, your training has been amazing. You've got all the way from 185 to 197 over a period of multiple weeks. And at 197, you thought I can't be going to get to 200. Your start in a really experienced high training fatigue. Your start in a really have trouble with eating. Not in a way that you can fix. Just cut it off. Take another week, train hard finish up. You finish up. When 97, when 98, you do a mini cut, back down to the, you know, low one 90s. They got a fuck. But I fuck what 200's arbitrary. Remember the pound is an arbitrary unit of measure. It just happens to be a stand. So just get what your body can get out, cut and run, reconstitute, come back. These artificial goals of 200 to 25 to 50. I've made them myself. I told myself that I was going to get to drug free 270. And I sure did. But I was fat as fucking. I'm still dealing with that excess skin now. And I, all that bad times I had. So make sure you gain on the slower end when you start regaining after all these foul loss phases. Fix your massing problem. Make sure you use many cuts and tell you if you need to. You don't have to mass for a year straight. And make sure that when it gets time that your body is really starting to break down and you can't hold it any more. Don't try to meet arbitrary. Another three and other five and other 10 pounds of weight gain in this phase because that is kind of a goal to know where. You know, it's just, you know, it's it's, it's, it's giving another super quick analogy. It's like, if you're a military, it's your command, you general, with military. And it's about to run through a city that's pretty heavily defended. The idea isn't that you just run through and take the city. But that's nice. That's the goal. Yes. But the implied goal is you take the city with still most of your military hardware and your best combat troops intact to once you have that city you secure it, you go on and take the rest of the country. And if you're like, hey, like we can take the city, but it's going to cost us half our military. We can rethink the shit, right? Which is what Vladimir Putin did after he couldn't take Kiev. But he never taken that shit because these are pieces of shit. Come back dictator. Sorry. Sorry. I went a little political. I'll see you Russian trolls in the troll farms in the comments. See you next time.

Hey folks, it's me Dr. Mike for Renaissance Periodization and today we are going to venture into Forum specialization training. Well, why wouldn't we? Folks, this continues our series on specializing and targeting every muscle group of the human body to try to make it more jacked. So what if you want to specialize on forum training? Well, first of all, why would you want to specialize in anything at all? Just a couple of sort of big hitter points there. It's easier to specialize in a time-constrained environment. If you only have five hours a week to train, once you become intermediate advance, you can't really do due diligence to your whole body in that time. So you shift some priorities around, really part, has something, depart, has something else. Another thing is just pure aesthetic reasons. Like having big forums is kind of fucking cool. Maybe you look like pop eye, worst case. That's not a bad worst case. Best cases, you know, like any time you have short sleeve, anything, or even like sleeves that end here, people are like, damn, are you a mechanic? Or are you riddic from the riddic movies which would be amazing? And lastly, yeah, you can buy part of your advertising and reducing the involvement of other muscle groups and limiting how much other training you're doing. You can get some muscles to grow bigger than they would normally be, or faster than they would normally grow, by really focusing a ton of effort on them. And of course, whenever you talk about prioritization, people ask, how many muscles can I prioritize at the same time? The answer is, how many, however many, you can do due diligence to training them from for their local specific minimum effect of volumes all the way up to maximum recoverable, without being impeded by systemic fatigue. So, if you can train your chest and buy steps in back and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, all in one week and they feel totally great and you can do that for a meso. And whenever one ends up limiting you for your back, is the fact that your back is physically too tired to keep going and starts to under recover. It's not like your whole body is demand for other exercise, really brought down your, you know, systemic abilities and ideally would have more ability to train your back, which is just so goddamn tired all around you can't do it. However many quality muscles you can throw in there, it's great. Beginners can prioritize everything, intermediates is when it starts to be like, well, if I go ham on seven of the eight major muscle groups, the eighth has to be something I do on maintenance volume because if I try to do it full on, this systemic fatigue rises so much faster than the local fatigues of all the muscles, and they're just having really shitty training over and over and over again. It's kind of like if someone was like, you can you can learn one language at a time. I know I got pride, you know that? What about two languages? You're like, I don't know that's pretty hard. What about 10 like we'll look? Just the amount of hours that have to put into learn 10 languages means I would never sleep, which means I can learn zero languages just as well as I can learn 10. So at some point the systemic fatigue is overwhelming. You have to consolidate and realize what you can train. So the answer to how many muscles you can prioritize for yourself is really, well, try to see how many muscles you can prioritize. And if it's too many to do, and systemic fatigue is way too high and local fatigue isn't high enough, then you have your answer and that that point you say, okay, I'm going to take out one or two muscle groups and see how it goes. At some point you're going to find your equilibrium of how many muscles you can train. And remember this is different answers for different muscles. It's not all replaceable categories. So for example, you can't take out forms, depirorize forms and put in quads because quads do so much more systemic fatigue, summation than your forms do that you, it's not a one-to-one ratio. So you may have to produce calves and forms and traps all the way to maintenance volume to make room for quads. Things like that. All right. So when we say specialization, we mean putting more focus on something to make it grow more. What does that mean we're actually doing as far as program design as concerned? First of all, we have to check the box of specificity. That means that we choose exercises and modalities, like straight sets, down sets, drops, etc., repetition ranges that preferentially stimulate the target muscle. We're not trying to do B plus or C plus answers. We're trying to do A and A plus answers. So you say, well, you know, for my forms, I actually do really well with a lot of grip or work, but I don't really have a grip or so whatever. We look at your serious, about getting as big a forms as possible, save some money for a little bit and get a good grip or because if you've worked with one of the past, the forms are really blew up. You're going to want to put all of your best tools forward. That's definitely a thing. The next thing is prioritization. Especially with form training, this is a little strange of a concept, but a promise it works. You've got to train at least once during the week, preferably multiple times. You have to train your target muscle that you are specializing on, first or very early in each session. A lot of the things, and this is muscles like forums, traps, calves, and so on. Rear delts, typically suffer because almost sociologically, culturally, they just put in the back burner at the very end of a program. Nobody comes in and starts training traps. That's nonsense. Traps are something you do after back or after shoulders. But if you really want to bigger traps, why the hell would you train them only when you're super tired? Just the same way with forms, I will be recommending here that you train forms first in most sessions after which you will train other muscle groups. Don't worry, we'll have ways of getting around the fatigue problem there where you can. Group anything right anymore, but it has to be a thing you recognize objectively. If I want a bigger muscle, I've got to train it all earlier, so it has more energy with which to be trained and gets better results. Frequency. Almost always, slightly higher frequencies, favor short-term hypertrophy results better than slightly lower ones. So yeah, you could train your forms once a week and get pretty good results, but you'd get better results with two sessions and probably better results even with three. So anytime you're trying to prioritize on any muscle forms, included, a slightly higher frequency is absolutely something to keep as a mainstay of your intervention. This is definitely something that works almost every time. It's kind of like, when you decide to bulk up, you eat more food, that's one of the big check boxes. This is similar one, similar in power. Now, how much should you reduce the non-specialized training to make room for recovery? Well, this can be a big deal, because if the rest of your program heavily taxes or forms, for example, you may have such tired forums all the time that you're maximum recoverable volume for forms specific training can actually be quite low. See, damn, my form is get a lot of work from all the other stuff I do. Well, is it quality work? There's just, you get tired, for example, if you're doing pull downs and you're doing a high reps or whatever, but you're a lats or what fails on every reps that you fail on. Okay, let's just pull, but my grip is still solid. Because your grip was very far away from failure. Every single one of those sets, that means every single one of those sets is technically junk volume for your grip, so that it makes your grip tired for when you have to do form training later. But at the same time, it's not enough of a stimulus to make it grow much. It's that dead zone of just like crap, right? Which sucks. Now, can we say that look what you should really be doing is like doing less back work and shoulder work to let your grip be fresh for form stuff? That's a big trade-off. Those are big muscle groups. Can you reduce their volume slightly when you're in a form perversation phase? Yes. Can you not touch them at all and just use like verse a grip instead to grab those bars? Yes, you can, and that's probably the best way forward. Luckily, forms be like that where you can almost completely take them out of the equation. Alright. So, frequency. When you're constructing your specialized plan for forms, my recommendation here is to train forms three, four, even five times per week. Forms tend to recover very quickly. And if you can recover quickly, to perform at your best or better again, you should train again. With forms, it doesn't happen once every week. Usually it doesn't even happen twice every week. Three, four, or five times per week, your forms can recover very, very fast. Ideally, what you do is, when you're looking at frequency of when to train them, you say, okay, I need to train my forms four times a week. But I got it. Back to train and shoulder to train, how the fuck am I supposed to train forms? You already said the prioritization means forms should be train first. So how do I train my forms first? And still have good high quality shoulder or back workout, even if it's back burner workout. No problem. Get yourself a pair of versegrips. Versegrips does not sponsor us at RP or me personally. Unfortunately, versegrips come on just kidding. It's an amazing product. It's basically a lifting strap. It has just one loop. And it's made of this weird sci-fi material that as soon as you put it over a bar, and you just touch your fingers to the top of it, your arm will get fucking ripped out of it, socket before that versegrips let's go in most cases. And that means with minimum effort, you can take your grip completely or almost completely out of all training. So if you do as you train forms first, like hard, four times a week or whatever, and then the workouts that come after, shoulders or biceps or whatever have you, because you use the versegrips, especially for shoulders and back pulling movements, it's really not going to make hardly any difference at all. It's actually a good idea to do these after shoulders, or sorry, do forums before shoulders or before back, because then you have a good possibility to how you expose your forms. If you train forums three times a week, for example, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, you train forms first and then you train shoulders and or back, the main pulling movements for the week. When it's not formed back shoulder training Tuesday Thursday Saturday, let's say it's push training or leg training or something, your forms aren't getting just a little bit of a hit from some back and shoulder training could be doing, which would always keep the fatigue pretty level and really tire out over the long term. This gives a chance for forums to really heal in their fatigue, hit again really hard on Wednesday, really heal through Thursday, hit really hard on Friday, really heal through Saturday Sunday and come back around. So in this way, it actually is a good idea to train because you could totally train your forms before push your before legs and then save them all for your shoulders and your back just to be fresh, you could do that, but really, really part of it hasn't formed, it's probably better to do them on the same day that is before your main pulling work of shoulder stuff and back stuff, and then that way you get a huge stimulus from the form training, no big stimulus from that shoulder or back training because you're using verse of grips and then great recovery times in between. As far as exercises, you can include a core of various wrist curls, cables, barbells, dumbbells, etc. And I would recommend the captains of crushed series grippers. They are the company that makes the most high quality gripper, you have no affiliation, but I've used their shit for a long time, and they make a really good fine grade action of gripper strength because you don't need like the one gripper you can close once and then let go. You need a gripper that you can close for like sets of 10 to 20 reps, hypertrophy range and do that and that will really blow up your form. You'll notice that nowhere in this guide are we talking about the form extensor muscles. One of the reasons we don't is because through most shoulder training, you get a shitload of form extensor anyway. Second of all, it's just not a muscle that gets really gigantic or impressive, and it's kind of like the tubialis anterior of the arm. Like every person that asks for tubialis anterior, a hypertrophy guide, I assume is either joking or deeply involuntarily in salad. Could God, trying to get an insult going, I had to stop, is this right to say, yeah, fuck it off, deeply, deeply involuntarily, celibate or joking. Okay, there's never as far as I can tell, there's never been a serious request for a human being that has sex with other people for a fucking to be absent here in hypertrophy guide. I'm going to assume that's the case with the top of the form. If you guys correct me and really convince me of that something is, I'll put on a fucking how to do this for a guide, whatever. In any case, form flexion is the primary movement, resonant finger flexion, extension, I'm going to leave to you guys to figure out on your cells. Set numbers, just like everything, start with two to six working sets, forms, procession, whatever you feel a bit of a decent pump from, gets you good workout and then loading and reps is really just for the best SFRs. People respond really differently in forms. Some people, like if they use a gripper, sets a five repetitions, blow their shit up like none other for some folks as higher reps, generally speaking because the amplitude of movement for any kind of gripping is small. The amount of time the muscle spends contracting is not that large per rep. And this you need more repetitions to get enough time generating tension to have a good stimulus. Fundamentally, why sets of, you know, four, three, two and one reps don't stimulate as much hypertrophy set per set of sets of 10 and 20 is because they don't get to experience enough time generating tension to really summit that really solid stimulus. So what I would say in that case is definitely experiment, but most people will prefer sets of 10 to 20 and even 20 to 30 in forum training. And that will be the best for most folks. So just know that, you know, up ahead. And of course, earlier in the week is when you do your heavy stuff, later in the week is when you do your lighter stuff, few days off at the end of the week, recycle repeat everything is super good. Of course, as usual, we progress with sets as needed. So if you are clearly recovering way early, for example, you do forum training on Monday, and it's time to do it on Wednesday. And a Monday, just nothing happens. You don't get sore. You're not tired. You come back on Wednesday and just smash PRs. You get even stronger. Feel fresh. Someone's okay. You're forum's tired for Monday. I don't even came and tell you to work on Monday. You could probably benefit from another set next week on that Monday workout because it wasn't even remotely challenging. Once it's challenging and a little bit tough to recover, but you still recover on time, don't change anything. That's the great number of sets. And if it's so challenging that you can't recover on time, you need to work back in the number of sets to make sure that essentially you're getting hit really hard, stimulated by the time you training again next everything is healed so you can hit it again. That's how you pick a good because you are to pick your frequency. You'll see three times a week. Then you adjust set numbers to make sure everything heals on time. It's not overly complicated. RIRs, you know, everything's pretty normal for forum training. Again, this one of our big philosophies that we'd like to sort of put forward on this channel is that if you're trying to hypertrophy a muscle, generally speaking, most muscle hypertrophy in similar ways. So if you were to talk about how do I get more muscular abs, train your abs like any of the muscle, like sets of ten to fifteen reps with compound heavy basics and mind muscle connection and all that shit. I don't know where I thought it was just planks. Like, do you fucking plank for your legs? Oh, how the fuck would you plank for abs? Same idea on forms. And that's one of the reasons why grip holds didn't make the cut for this sample program. You can do them if you get a lot of them. But typically speaking, isometrics don't work as well as isometric plus concentric plus eccentric. So we're trying to do a full range of motion, good movements here, all that other good stuff. Start around three reps in reserve for this stuff. Increase the load and reps, adding two and a half to five pounds on whatever dumbbell or whatever implement you're using each week and or add one to Treps sometimes you need a gripper and you can do a set of ten next time you do a set of eleven next time you do a set of twelve. So on and so forth, keep going up because you can't really change the persistence to the gripper. And it's basically like every other training. So it gets progressively harder until you have to deal with and then repeat. Now here is a sample plan for forearm training. This is something you would do every Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday before back under shoulder training ideally and really you could do it before anything else. First thing you do in your plan. So Monday, you walk in and you do barbell risk curls with a top pause, which means you curl and chop boss for a second you curl back and you curl right. And you do that for three sets of ten to twenty reps, three reps in reserve, do whatever ups you can write it down, sweet. Tuesday, captains of fresh gripper reps, right. My best advice to you is to count the reps very conservatively. So you get the gripper in your hand and you close the gripper completely metal on metal hold for a second relax. Hold for a second, concentrate or eccentric, control the eccentric hold for a second control the eccentric. I wouldn't do this thing where you're like, click, oh, I got it and click and I got it because you know, it's pretty easy to miss reps and then you know your missing reps. But I would say it's convincing closing. So you have convincing repetitions that's basically the technique. It's all work all the same. There's nobody in the sky is even if God's real, he's up there. He's not counting him any fucking reps, you didn't know what he cares. So impressing anyone with captains of fresh grippers and insane idea to begin with. So make those reps convincing is my best approach so that you have good technique and good reps to follow up with. You could be confident, like, yes, I did do 20 reps because I wasn't sandbagging the technique or anything like that. Thursday, Barbara Brooks curls again, this time in a higher rep range. Same technique as Monday. There's not that many ways to train your forms. So sometimes we have to be conservative with exercise selection and be a little bit. Knowing we don't have that many various to choose from. It's okay that the same exercise is repeated twice in one week as long as it's in different rep ranges. It's totally fine. And then of course on Saturday, one arm bench risk curl off the bench. Three sets of 10 to 20 reps, very good. What does that look like if we progress through our whole mesocycle? What is the hardest week look like for that? Well, you look at that. Our Barbara risk curls went from three sets of 10 to 20 reps. Three RIR all the way to zero RIR. Seven sets. All right. So from three sets to seven sets, that's a big increase. Captains of crushed gripper went from three to six. Barvel risk curls on Thursday went to eight. And a lot of these don't have to rest for a long between sets. Generally speaking, once the burn is gone and you feel pretty strong again, go again. And it's okay if you're upstrap off, bunch of sets close to failure. You can get a lot of high quality work done in like two or three total minutes. You can do like four or five sets. No problem because each set maybe takes 20 seconds, 10 second break between sets. And you're going to go again. You don't have to take two to three minutes between these. Can't imagine doing wrist curls and taking two to three minutes between each one. Eight sets. You may actually had not have a pump at the end of all that and just be like a no way that you spent 30 fucking minutes doing that stupid shit. What are our bench risk curls up to six? It's a lot of volume. And I'm using the scarecrow. It's because she is just foreign volume. It's really not that big of a deal. What I do want you guys to do is use the feedback your body's giving you. And understand that if it's giving you a huge pump, it's getting a little bit sore, getting you nice and tired for next time, it's more than enough volume. But if it's not getting you those things, more volume is a good idea. And sometimes it's like eight sets of barbell wrist curls. Like, well, isn't that too much? What are you healing on time for Saturday? Well, yeah, do you get sore like a little bit, but then it goes away or I get a pump, but then it don't even get sore? That you're totally good to go. And remember, this is a workout for a whole muscle group. So your forearms are one muscle. If you do eight sets for them, I don't you do eight sets per session for your pecs and your quads and your hamstrings and your biceps and your shoulder, yeah, you do all that stuff. So don't be afraid. You will also notice that it's one exercise at a time here. Mostly because we're trying to conserve exercise variation. So we're okay with doing more sets with just one exercise. So we don't have to use many other exercises. If you could train forearms, we did two or even three exercises for each forearm workout. But if you have three forearm workouts per week, and you have a total of nine exercises that you even have to use, that's nine, all nine of your exercises in one mesocycle. So what happens two or three mesos later, where some of the exercises become stale, there are so far as drop off, and then what are you supposed to do? When you ran out of exercises, so I really do recommend a forearm workout is almost always just one forearm exercise. All right. Last sort of question here is how long to specialize for on forearms? The ideally you do a training block, which is three mesocycles in a row, take a resensitization or an active rest. You can come right back into prioritizing forearms, or you can put them on the back burner. It really is dealers choice here. As you progress from mesodermes and a mesodermesso within a block, you can prioritize more high repetition stuff, try to experiment with even higher frequencies to see which one you survived the best, or which one gives you the best stuff. Definitely try new exercises. It's really easy to burn through a bunch of variation in forearms training, so make sure that you have some new exercises to try in a lot of times, it's the same exercise, but like one mesocycle you did barbell risk curls here, another mesocycle you do them wide. That almost nominal change in exercise really does help break it up at least psychologically, keep you progressing and keep you excited. Lastly, if all this stuff sounds really good to you, but you need a little bit more help constructing your plan, or making your prioritized plan, we have some really good stuff. These are all links that are below. Exercise video library, almost all the exercises we use, video format with Jared Feather as the person doing them, and myself as the person talking about their technique, we have a muscle group training guide that is a guide to all muscle group training, by itself and it's got all the breakdowns of everything, and it's way more complex than any video I could make, all in one article space, it's really awesome. If some of the stuff stimulus to fatigue ratio, MRVMV is like, what the hell? No worries. If hypertrophy made simple video series, that you can take like, it's I think 16 videos and each one's like an average of five to ten minutes long, you can crank through those, no problem if you want, and then you'll know the terminology and everything will make a ton of sense. If you want a deeper dive, not free is a hypertrophy book, but it's quite cheap. Basically, a textbook about how to train hypertrophy, the theoretical underpinnings and unpractical stuff, it's really good stuff. And of course, if you want to build a custom training plan for yourself, to specialize in whatever muscle group you want, maybe in forms, you can always use our custom training templates, and those are linked below, and they are not free, but they're awesome, which is almost as good as free, possibly even better. Folks, thanks for tuning in, like, subscribe to YouTube things, and see you next time. Thank you.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. It is video number nine in our 12 video series about how to build and execute a hypertrophy training program. I am going to be also demoing the RP-high hypertrophy app to you guys. This is the app that I just built. It just came out. People love it. To be honest, I'm recording this video months in advance. So who knows if people like it? But actually our internal team of testers, which is like 20 to 30 people, it was kind of weird because we were trying to get some feedback from them. They were like, hey, like, here, use the app and we were using ourselves. And no one had to really anything to say because we were like, hey, what do you think? They're like, I love it. Leave me alone. Leave me alone. I want to work with my hypertrophy app. Do you have any feedback? Just go away and let me type in these reps and sets and let the other regulation make scientific love to my body. Okay, what if you need a nap? And they just get out of my face. We're like, oh, sorry. I just didn't see anything when I talked to you. In any case, I don't have any friends left because the RPI purgevy app token, do you want a friend? Link in the description. You pay the money. It's a universal program, generally. It's going to hook you up. It's amazing. I built it myself. In any case, sales pitch over progression. Every single week that you do the same exercises in order to make sure that you are sufficiently challenging yourself, you have to make progress. A lot of that occurs passively. As you get stronger, you're going to be able to lift more weight or do more repetitions in any given set. Word up. But training is hard and it's easy to get into your own head and start to doubt yourself and other stuff. So what we like to do in our P is we like to stay one head, one head, one step ahead of the game, and pre plan your progressions for US suggestions. For example, if you do it 100 pounds last week for set of 10, we think you should either do 105 pounds this week for a set of 10 at least. Or 100 pounds per set of 11. Some kind of one low rapper, one low five pound increment, should be the plan. And if you for some reason are too fatigued to hit it, hey, you need to deal with. But if you're not, you need to hit it to make sure you're ensuring little, tiny steps to progress. That is the whole idea of progression. Now, you want small margins. Because you don't want to accumulate a crap ton of fatigued. You're not showing off. You're just getting a little bit more every single time. The cool thing is that the app automatically does this for you. The RP high-perrophy app, then can the description. It does all this for you. You type in your weights. You type in how many reps you got in week one, in week two, three, four, et cetera. It will give you new weights and or new reps to hit. And it will show you what the target is. So to demonstrate here, we have the Camper Barb Edge Press as an exercise, 140 pounds. Notice there's a little target emoji here that not appear in the last videos we did, because those are just week one videos. This is week two. But actually week two, day one, Monday, excellent. The target is 140. That's your target reps. Sorry, the target load after you do all your warm-up soup with that on the bar. And your target reps are 26. Because last time you can scroll back, you just use this calendar function, you can scroll back, a shit we'll just do this now. Last time we did 135 for 26 reps in a first set. So this time, this Monday has 140 for 26 reps. It programs the overload for you. So done are the days if you haven't figured out how much more weight to put on the bar or do more of the app handles this 100% now. Here's the thing. If you want to change what you're doing, you always can. It's always within your hands to change. So it's not like it locks you in here. You can go here and say, well, actually, I want to fucking do 135 or even 145 or anything else. And then it will mess with the reps now. Let me illustrate, this is a really cool function. If you don't change a ton, like 15 pounds or 20 pounds heavier lighter, the app has a predictive matching system that will keep you progressing still present an overload, relatively more than last time, even if you change some stuff. So let's say you're like, you know what, the 2.5 do not exist at my fucking gym. I'm just going to have to do 135 pounds again, because like some guy stole the 2.5s now, we have to order them again. All right, 135. If you think okay, well, how many reps am I going to have to do? It's 26 reps to beat my PR from last time. And if I go back to 135, how many reps do I have to do? I don't know, it was mental math. What is a PR? You click 135 automatically. It changes to 27 reps as your new target. Because it knows what you did last time. And I noticed this isn't a target anymore because you went off target. But that's not a big deal. If you do this again and do all the sets on 135, the next week, it'll try bumpy again to 140 and give you the new target. If you go to 145 instead, 24 reps as your target, because 145 of 24 reps is still technically a PR over last week's 25 reps with 135 pounds. Since up 10 whole pounds, you drop a rep. It's relatively as difficult as 140 would be if we did 26 reps because the under the hood math does the work for you. This is a really, really cool feature. Now, if you say look man, fuck, I just want to do high reps today or some bullshit like that and you say 110, it just says one rep and reserve. And then you type in the reps after that because it doesn't, it can't guess anymore. There's too much variation between humans, too much variation within humans that if it knows you did 135 for a set of 26 last week or a set of 25 or whatever it was, if you do 110 pounds or like 160 plus, it can't guess anymore. So it just says, hey, it just go like one rep away from failure and write down your reps. But if you do that the next time, it'll probably recommend like 115 and then it'll recommend whatever reps you got plus one or the same amount, whatever it gets a tiny overload. So the app handles all this for you and if it doesn't know what's going on, I don't say hey, just do your best and do it here. And as usual, here's the thing. If we go back to 140, which is recommended, the reps here is the target reps after you do the set. You say you know what man I felt like shit, fuck, I had 25. No, as you didn't PR. Later it will tell you this. If you felt really great, then you can type in, you got 27, it'll register that. Then the next week, it won't just be like, hey, just go back to 26 again. It'll know you did better and next week from whatever a better was, it'll challenge you a tiny bit more and a tiny bit more and a tiny bit more. All through the magic of auto regulation done for you. Now here's the thing. You want to treat these rep goal targets exactly as what they are as targets to shoot for. If you're doing the exercise, it's like it says 26 reps and you're getting a 20, you're like, fuck, don't try to go beyond failure, you're curious to get to 26. You just didn't have it that day. Don't worry, the app gives you a chance to not have it that day before recommends recovery. So you can always miss a few reps, it's no big deal. And look, if you miss two workouts of reps in a row, you're getting weaker. It's time for recovery phase anyway, which the app will end up recommending to you at some point when it feels like you need it. If you feel amazing and you're getting to 25 reps, you're still moving like this, you totally can go for 28 or 29 or 30 reps. But I highly recommend not just blowing your load in week two. If the end right before you do you load, hey, fucking, fucking up, do whatever, go to failure, get a spotter. But in all the interim weeks, week one, two, three, four, let's say have a five week accumulation, all the way up three, four, my personal recommendation, which is why it's in the fucking app, is to just get five pounds more or one rep extra. Or if you're leg pressing 600 pounds, 10 pounds more, because it references the original weight, 10 pounds more, and then or one rep extra. Those are little tiny PRs, as long as you're working pretty hard, that's the golden fleece of training. That's what you want. That's what creates the best conditions for muscle growth. So you don't have to show off every time you just go balls to the wall and be like, the app gave me a goal of 27 reps, fuck that, that means 28. No, that motherfucker, it means 27. Because the app knows science of shit. And if you know more science than the app, you can always override and say fucking it's 28. But be careful, don't bite off more than you can chew. The app, as it's default recommendation, is designed to give you the best long term progress period. And if it's way too easy in a certain set, yeah, of course, do more reps. But if it feels pretty challenging, you're like, by the way, I couldn't do more reps in no shit, there's multiple weeks left over. So my best recommendation is to do with the app size. That's it. Folks, link in the description to get the app, you pay money, you get the app, use it, it's amazing. And in the next video series, we are going to talk about another way to regulate volume that has to do with workload and perception, and not just someone else and all that other stuff. There's multiple ways to regulate volume. We want to make sure we got them all covered. In the RPA, I purchased the app, TM, R, we've got them all there. So anyway, see you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for an Assault Spearization, and I want to tell you about how I cut my injury rate from lifting by 10 fold. And I have 24 years of lifting experience. I have learned a ton. And during that time, I discovered a few tips I want to share with you about how you can also cut your injury rate 10 times. Did I sell you yet? How's that for promo? All right, real talk. The 10x thing is just bullshit. It's clickbait. Thanks for clicking on the video. Hopefully we use the 10x, you're injury rate by 10 times in the thumbnail. It's got the video guys. I sounds like good thumbnail to me. We record these videos long before we make the thumbnails, by the way. In any case, but for real for real, I cut my injury rate by a lot, a lot a lot a lot in insanely notable night and day. I used to get hurt really regularly in the gym. And then when I started doing these things, I started doing them not all at once. Slowly but surely I figured it out. My injury rate got reduced a ton. And these didn't just work for me. They work for Jared. Father, I have to be pro. They work for tons of other people that we work with. They're just really fucking sound advice. Now, you don't have to do them. You don't have to use them. But if you want to reduce your injury risk and still get the same or even better benefits from the gym, stimulus wise, strength wise, give it some thought. Here we go. Number one, just straight up better technique. There's a way to lift weights that just kind of lifts them from 0.8 to 0.3 like in the deadlift. You just pick it up and it works great. But there's a way to lift with a bit more nuance where you have the kind of technique that reduces injury risk, probabilistically by at least a small margin. Here it is. When I deadlift, I started deadlifting. I made try to tight lower back. I never had a rounded lower back and was ratcheting up the reps. That took my lower back. A little ding and ping kind of injury rate and just plummeted it to the ground. Retracted shoulders on pressing movements, for example. You leave a shoulder flat out like that. Tons of football players get tons of shoulder injuries in the gym from bedspersoning because they don't know how to bench press properly. In powerlifting, shoulder injury is actually very rare because you've retracted just scapially. You're going to hear more joints are deep back there and safe away from a ton of weird instability and all of a sudden when I started doing that, I just stopped getting hurt. In high school, I would bench like a normal person and I just got hurt shoulder several times. It even was just like a year and a half of lifting and then I had a power lift or teach me how to do a proper archer contraction and I swear to God, I never hurt my shoulder ever again on the bench press, ever. Big deal. I highly recommend just pay attention to technique. No what technique is more likely to be injurious, make sure it's stable and reduce that injurious technique and introduce the technique that gets you hurt less. We have tons of videos on what kind of good technique does reduce injuries, so please go ahead and go with that and YouTube it and maybe Scott the video guy put in a link to one of those videos. Number two, controlling the eccentric. You want to hurt your knees. It's really hard to do it in the gym. The gym's a safe place, but you want to probabilistically increase the potential for you hurting your knees, dive by your squats, dive by your lunges, go quick into the hole, rapidly descend with the bench. Those high forces in that plyometric transition, that's the highest force you'll ever expose yourself to and in a stretched position. It's I don't want to say a recipe for injury, but if you really want to put a fine point on it, yeah that's a good way to try to get hurt. So what you do instead is you control the eccentric. I don't mean like forever. I mean even on a cable curl instead of going, oh like that, just going like that. Even a one second, some semblance of control, but ideally two to three seconds, is going to get you tons of eccentric damage and tons of eccentric mediated growth, which is huge by the way, and will make you huge, but it also really, really, really does reduce the risk of injury. So that's something I started to doing. My injury risk started to doing and my injury risk went down precipitously. How's that for a big fancy big brain word? Number three, D-loading on time. You get to a point where you're just barely matching your rep PRs. Your joints are fucking hurting all over. Your muscles are barely attached to the bone. You have one more week that you planned to train, because like fuck that bro, we got to get after him. You should D-load, but your friends are like, man, let's do another hard couple sessions. You're like, yeah, if they'll get in there, how something happens to get hurt? D-loading on time when you're supposed to, when the logic of training progression dictates it, that is, when your fatigue is really high, and you're barely hanging in with your performance, you're there in the gym to increase your performance. So if you're barely hanging with the fucker you're doing anyway, cut it off, D-load when you're supposed to. Don't try to stretch that post-delode margin. Stretching the post-delode margin, which by which I mean, once you fucking know you're supposed to D-load, but you're like, a couple more sessions. Let's just get it done. Another week or whatever of hard training after you're supposed to have D-load is similar to when you're driving through like, you know, somewhere in the country in the United States, let's say, or as a country's of Europe, yes, excellent. And you're like at the corner tank or whatever sixth of a tank where the empty light comes on and your gas tank, and you keep going. Now here's the thing, a lot of times you're good to go. Couple extra sessions after you D-load. When you drop the weight on the bar a ton, you a ton of eccentric control super light. You're probably modifying the exercises from like squats to like leg presses, something less injurious. You're probably not going to get hurt. So like if you're in a major metropolitan area where there's a gas station every fucking mile, you can ride with like, friends, that light is like for 20 or 40 miles or some shit. You're good to go. You don't have to be like, the light came on, rrrr! Oh, across eight lanes of traffic, buck and kill someone's dog and just ram into the gas station. The gas station blows up in the fumes of the gas go down in the dead dog's body, and then the devil is clearly in that shit and then the dogs are. Ooh. And then that's how Kujo was born. But in any case, look, yeah, the fucking light comes on. Don't worry about it. So in most cases, if you de-load a little late, adjusting a couple of variables, you're good to go about how about this. You're driving through fucking Arizona or Utah or Nevada, and here up as so well developed, there may be no analogy. I drove through Switzerland once and she got a lot of tickets because they have auto-speeder cameras, fucking assholes, that's like $600. Fuck. But anyway, in the mountains, it's what's wrong. They still have fucking gas stations. I don't know how. But if you're driving through somewhere where you should, if fucking light comes on and a commyla way, there's like, you know, pull away and get gas and pee and all that stuff gets snacks and you're like, ah, feel good. But you don't read a little sign of the fine print. You keep driving and it's like, next gas station, 50 miles, and you're like, oh fuck. What happens then? A very, very predictable sequence of an answer to which I will, for which I will now elucidate. Number one, you're like, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're good, we're gonna make. Number two, car stops, you pull off the side of the road. Number three, tumbleweeds, be good seen in the movie like wind, sun, you're like, oh, it's just nice out here. Cell service, zero bars. Uh-oh. Do I want to walk 25 miles that way to that gas station or 25 miles this way to this gas station? Guess what happens next? Hold out, I'll stop for a second. In your head, think of what I'm gonna say next. Some of you are at the same wavelength right now. We all know what it is. A little flickering light, off in the distance, surely, because I have a cutout, those are people. Oh, or they used to be people. Before the nuclear testing in the 1950s caused multi-generational genetic deformity that hills have eyes. And if you've never seen that movie fucking never do because it'll leave you with nightmares, that's what's gonna happen to you. The D-load of COVID in that shit is you fucking tear a pack or your hamstring goes or your shoulder gets out of place and it's really hurt. Don't stop and random places in Utah and talk to fucking weird fucked up strangers unless you have a high caliber rifle or the sniper or spotter team. Be a great way to redo that movie. Could you guys fucking imagine like you kidded out Marosox snipers? So run out of gas and then the hills have eyes people come out and he's like, oh my god, movie would be five minutes long. I pay hundreds of dollars to watch that shit if you want to make it all watch. In any case, it's just not worth it. It's not worth it. You're not a Marosox sniper. So fucking D-load on time. I used to push it harder and I would get fucking hurt. I'd be like, god damn it, why am I doing this to myself? And then I stop doing that shit and it feels fucking lame. Like you don't feel like a fucking iron brother or warrior, whatever. You have to cut your D-load off on time. Eh? It's worth it. I promise because then you're fresh. You're not hurt and the next mesle cycle goes better and better and better. And you walk in, you see people who the gym that used to be more jacked than you. And they're like, yeah man, fuck, they have tendon, I'm nursing a fucking bias that thing and they're just not getting any better. But you're fucking getting better because you're a pussy and you deal it on time. By the way, you guys notice I didn't raise his hand because I just did a whole lot of jiu-jitsu and it fucking hurts to raise my arm. I'm a fucking moron. Number four. Smaller load progression session decision. Your body is capable of a certain rate of gain and that rate of gain, all things adjusted, is measured in 1 to 3 pounds per week. Maybe at some early phases of your life. Imagine if you consistently gained one pound of maximum lift strength every week for the whole year. When was the last time you put 52 pounds on your fucking bench press or squat or deadlift in a year? If you watch this video and you've been training for a year, one, two, three or four, yeah, sure, last year. But pass that. That shit. That's unbelievable, game. So if you know that you only get one pound half a pound, a third of a pound stronger every week under the hood, all fitness and fatigue dynamics sort of peer through that shit to the real underlying fitness that you have, why in God's fucking name would you add a 25 pound plate on each side of the leg press every fucking week? People do this shit, bro. They go into gym. I used to do this. Four plates for 15 feels good. Guess what I'm doing next session. Four plates and fucking 25s on each side. Now, fuck that, that's pussy shit. Five plates, bro. Why? The real way to get gains safely is to do four plates one week. And guess what? Yes, lap fives are even fucking two and a half on each side. Right after that. What? Put on the real grown man. I can't have people seeing me leg pressing with extra little bit of change on there. My friends will make fun of me, but they'll make fun of you with injured and smaller legs than you. I still get made fun of jokingly, of course, by guys in the gym, for putting two and a half on the fucking shit. Except to like, hey, you want to get into this hacksaw out with me? And they're like, I don't want to go that low with six plates, fuck you. But the way I got to hacksaw out of six plates for sets of 10 is precisely by those small increments. I used to try to make big jumps. If fucking stop doing it, I got better because remember, making small jumps is not something where you're like, in, man, you fucking won't get the gains unless you make big jumps. You got to be a fucking, you got to be brave hard in this shit, man. I'm not afraid of these fucking weights, bro. I put 10 more pounds on the bar. Like, really, just bravery alone gets you fucking jacked, calling me fucking dumb. I want to try it. I got all kinds of bravery. But I don't have as an Italian approach to sport science that keeps me both lower in injury risk and simultaneously way more than enough weekly overload to keep my muscles challenged. And if the five pounds or ten pounds isn't enough, do a couple more reps, God damn it, that's not going to get you hurt, but the extra weight will. So don't make crazy big jumps, try to make a jump smaller and get a smoother progression to your training because you can get a smoother progression for one, two, three, four, mesle cycles in a row. You're going to be really fucking big and jacked. And someone who is much weaker is going to be like, hey, man, what does it take to be fucking big and jacked? Just put more weight on the bar. Just get fucking stronger and you're going to be like, well, no, just put a little bit more weight on the bar. Get the same reps or get one extra rep. Interrate that process over with sporadic delodes for years and then you'll get jacked like me. And nobody ever wants to hear that shit because that's real real shit. They know deep down as the fucking truth truth. Number five, on some movements, eventually as I got bigger and stronger, pauses at the bottom and they stretched somewhat more exposed position did absolutely enhance my injury risk and decrease it for me. So things like pull ups, I'm not bouncing out of the bottom. I'm going to pull a fuck that. I've pulled triceps like that before. Nothing too big, but scary enough to be like fuck that. Bench presses. Don't Google bench press pectares because that shit is scary as fuck, but a pause is not a guarantee you won't tear your pack, but it's sure a shit a good way to start. Squats, you get big and strong enough, pausing your squats both leaves you in that semi-torn quad position at the bottom, which is awesome for growth. And it makes you use less weight in the squat and it eliminates those quick pulse plyometric forces at the bottom, the immortalization phase that result in a slightly increased probability of injury. So just to review better technique, control the centrics, de-load on time instead of milking out longer, small load progression session to session, add less weight to the bar every time, pauses on, at the bottom of some of the movements in which you consider like, I'd rather take a pause this feels low risky and the results will be amazing. I almost guarantee that injury rate is going to go down. For me personally, I just straight up almost never get hurt in the gym. I used to get hurt in a gym like regularly before and it's almost definitely because of these things. Because at the same time, I'm getting older, I'm fucking 38, but I'm not supposed to be getting hurt less. I'm supposed to be getting hurt more, but as you age, hopefully you become wiser and start doing more of this smart shit. People often ask me the question of like, what stuff could you have told yourself back? What do you wish you knew back when you were younger that you know now? And my real facetious but totally true answers like much modern periodization. I wish I knew all the sports hands I did, but one of the biggest things I wish I knew is that I don't need to do egotistical stupid bullshit to make gains. I could have always been doing this shit and getting fucking gains without getting hurt nearly as much because getting hurt blows as many dicks as it takes to make it not a fun time. Because if you love giving blow jobs with your boy, I've been taken third place at the blow job Olympics a few times. I don't think I like to brag about. It's gift. I barely even trained it. But after about 999 dicks, I don't want to see any dicks for a while. Getting hurt is like having 1,000 and 2 dicks. It's 3 fucking dicks too many. And you know, gee, what if you've been around dicks before? Even those 3 dicks can make a big difference. I sure should hope you guys aren't super young or showing this to your class. I had actually won a guy hit us up on the channel as a gay man. I'm a high school teacher and I want to show one of your videos for the kids to be educational and while you said the things you always say, I should have known better. I'm sorry about those kids man. I hope they grew up big and strong without any loot thoughts. Anyway, thanks for tuning in. Let me know you guys think share some of your own wisdom in the comments if you can about the stuff you think. You wish you knew earlier and are only now learning or only later learned. Let's get a little wisdom thing going in the comments. I'll see you in there. I'll pop in. Make some dick jokes and pop right out to go sit in a room alone and think of dick jokes. See you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike Israel here for Renaissance Puritization. Last week, we gave you simple ultra-easy straightforward ways to increase your squat. But no doubt many of you have tried the simple ways and have, well, let's say milked everything out of them that we could have got. So this week, we talk about increasing your squat with an advanced, periodized approach. One is going to be a bit more trouble shooting specific. This one is going to be a bit more formal laid out, but you will see that it incorporates many of the simple things from before. Assumes you're doing the real simple ones and then lays out a plan to take the most serious kind of possible approach to really increase your squat. So let's take a look. Here's how the sequence is going to work. You're going to do some due diligence on your hand and find the actual limiting factors for your squat. Then you are going to perform probably several months of hypertrophy work on those limiting factors. Be it that let's say your quads a week or be it that you're posterior to chain as week or be it that you're overall strength. It's just man and everything's pretty balanced. You're going to have your work cut out for you on the hypertrophy end for those weaknesses. After that, you'll go through a strength phase and then you'll go through a peaking phase and at the end of that peaking phase, you should hit new solid pyrs in the squat, come back around, reanalyze the problem and continue forward. So limiting factors. Here's how I would do this. You may disagree with it. You may go slightly your own way, but this is a method I think works pretty well. You can do your squats for you. Do you miss your squats deep in the hole or do you miss them just at or above parallel? Hold that thought. Next, when you're missing your squats, do you most often miss them very upright? Just kind of hip stop moving or do you miss them kind of bent and rounded over? Right. And you can even if you don't miss squats, you can proxy these of where you experience the most difficult in the lift. Is the the whole very hard for you or is it just above parallel? It's very hard and are you when the reps get harder starting to cant believe or over and round over in your back or in the reps are getting harder, are you able to stay upright and it's just like your legs feel like you're grinding through. Having answered that, the likely causes are at least reasonable possible causes for these various ways of missing or having trouble in squats are as follows. If you're missing a lot of squats in the hole, then it's probably that your knee extends or strength is limiting factor because in the hole your posterior chain doesn't really have much of an effect on anything and if anything, if your quads are strong enough, what they'll do is they'll shoot your butt up for you and then you won't be able to raise your back because your posterior chain is weak. But if in the hole you can't budge out of the hole, that means the quadriceps which are the primary and the only knee extensors humans have to some extent, that's pretty true to a large extent, then really knee extensions limiting factor and you sort of need bigger and stronger quads if you're missing your squats in the hole. If you're missing your squats or have trouble with your squats at around or maybe just above or below parallel, but you're upright the whole time, it's just overall strength. That position of right around parallel with a squat is actually like the mechanically most difficult position, right? Just add or below parallel or just above parallel depending on a few factors. So if you're going to be completely well balanced with your knee extension strength and your posterior chain strength, your ability to push against the ground and your ability to lift your back up after it's bent over, if those are balanced, that's probably where you're going to miss your squats. So then there's nothing ending off balance. You're really have limiting factor, you just overall strength needs to come up. And that's a really straightforward problem we know how to fix. And then lastly, if you're breaking if your squat, you're missing it kind of around parallel or even just above, but you're missing it because you're starting to really round it over and that tends to reduce a ton of your ability to drive through the floor, then it's probably the your posterior chain is a limiting factor. If you think about this way, if your posterior chain is theoretically strong enough, all trust strong. Let's say if you have the quads of a hundred pound woman, but the posterior chain of Andy Bolton, the first person to deadlift a thousand pounds, you're going to be missing every single squat in the hole and you're going to be completely upright because there's no way 150 pounds can possibly punk you out as far as what you're able to stand up with. Posterior chain is not a problem for you. So you're going to miss a squat exactly like everyone, this is a leg press. It's going to be a leg press for you. And then making your posterior chain stronger won't help your squat a tiny bit because of your completely limited by knee extension. So you obviously need to make your knee extension your quad stronger, right? But if your quads are strong enough to push you above parallel or close, but then you start to round over, that's not really a quads problem. That is a posterior chain problem and then you need to work on that. All right, that's how you find limiting factors. I'm not a whole lot of surprise there. Next, you will do hypertrophy work to attend to those limiting factors because fundamentally the biggest issue with weak quads, if we're going to address that and try to really like solve that problem, bigger quads make stronger quads almost every single time. And we're not trying to do some kind of weird like, oh, but what if I don't want to gain weight, blah, blah, blah, if I don't want to gain muscle, if you don't, if you're not ready to gain muscle, your toolbox for improving your core lifts is much smaller. And there are plenty of discussions for how to do that, but this is the most straightforward, right? So then you design a program to train the limiting factor muscle slash movements, whether it be posterior chain extension or whether it be knee extension, quadriceps, probably first or early in all the days of your program, which is a train and probably a little bit more off such that if you typically train quads twice a week in your power lifting program for increasing your squat, you could consider training your quads maybe three times per week and everything else same or even fewer amounts of times to really hammer home that adaptation. Now, of course, you're going to include all the rest of your lifts sort of as they fit into your recovery demands, based on you squatting more or you let's say doing more quadrochromosporus tier chain work, you're left to reduce the other components somewhat, which is by definition has to happen. If you want to increase your squat and do the most you can to do it, you've got to cool it on the other stuff because your maximum recovery of volume overall is only a certain extent, one finite thing. And if you take up more of it with squatting stuff, less of it is available for other stuff. So, no big deal, but that's not really rocket science. And then what you do is you spend a few mesocycles in that hypertrophy work, doing mostly sets of five to ten for those exercises that are going to hypertrophy the muscle groups that are limiting you. If it's quadrocepts that are limiting you, you do a lot of quad work. If it's posterior chain, you do not so much quad work in much more posterior chain work. If it's overall, then you do a pretty even mix of posterior chain and quad work. Then it's not so hard to just kind of train normal. But, I will say this, intellectually, if you figure out, because it sounds like I'm saying okay with this quad thing, if it's quad limiting factor, we got some real stuff to work on, so obvious. If it's posterior chain, we have something to really work on. But if it's overall general strength, it's kind of like it's a mystery just keep getting stronger in the squat. Well, no, it's not so much a mystery. It's a mystery solved. The fact that you don't longer have to worry about why is my squat week is a big fucking deal. A lot of people rack their brains over it, loose sleep over it. How come my squat won't go up? If you know that the way in which your missed your squat doesn't imply that your quad's are super weak, relative to your squat, or your posterior chain is super weak. It just happens to be that you're just kind of like, you know, missed the squat exactly where you would expect someone who just loaded too much weight on it. You could have a perfectly symmetrical squatter, whose posterior chain and quad's are just a strongly southern balance, she'll are out. And if you put one extra pound on the bar, he's going to miss the squat somewhere. And if you know that's where you're missing the squat, then you can kind of say, hey, great, just overall general strength is what you need. And a lot of people who are doing programs under the assumption that it's always a limiting factor that exists can be released, sort of like I ripped off for lack of a better term because they think, oh man, I'm going to get my quad so strong. And then my squat's going to shoot up. Well, the quad's got stronger, but the posterior chain stayed roughly the same. And now the only thing that happened is they're missing the squat in the way they're posterior chain would miss the squat and it's squat is almost the same. So now they have to bring their posterior chain up. So in many ways, not approaching the general strength, if that's the problem for you, but approaching one limiting factor or the other just makes the other limiting factor more pertinent. Now, of course, if you approach the one limiting factor first to get really really strong posterior chain. And then later get really strong quad's or squat absolutely will go. But you just sort of made a very specific kind of limiting factor for yourself where you could have just gotten trained normally, sort of quote unquote, even balance and seen some really good gains. It depends on how close your competition is, how soon you want to change your squat. If it's all the time in the world, then you can just work on your posterior chain like crazy for several years and then bring up your quads or vice versa. But if it's like you kind of want consistent gains, especially for a meet coming up in six months, it who's you to work on both? If you're missing your squat on such a way that doesn't indicate one or the other are huge limiting factor for you. All right. So after the hypertrophy phase, we've got bigger muscles. We are going to switch our program to no longer work. Let's say quads first because some movements like hacks, watts or live presses. In the hypertrophy, you meet even due before squats or instead of squats because they're very specific to quad hypertrophy. But now we're back into general strength and then we have to start squatting first again, not limiting factor work first, not by press first but now squats first again. However, we're going to keep in the limiting factor work. If it's the quads that we're doing factor, we're still going to do a little bit more volume, even in a strength phase and keep training hard to continue to get our quads much stronger. And in this style of mesocycle, this next strength block, several mesocycles in a row, you're going to be focusing on mostly sets of three to six repetitions, not five to 10, but some assistants work will occur in sets of five-date repetitions like maybe some hacks, squats, live presses, etc. After that, you're going to do a peaking phase. We have other videos about where peaking phase is belong and how they're to be done. But basically, you do lots of main lift volume in the first few weeks and then you do a little bit of accessory volume in the first few weeks and then you pull that after about one or two weeks and a peaking phase, you essentially pull all of accessory volume out after three or four weeks, you pull the main lift volume out or down significantly. That starts your taper that tapers down the volume and your fitness continues to stay relatively level under your underlying strength. Your fatigue starts to fall and thus your preparedness which is fitness-minus fatigue starts to go up, compete or peek and just hit hit at the gym, wonderful big squat pier happiness for you as they say. So here's a sample program I have for the hypertrophy mezzos and then strength mezzos one and two. You'll notice that in the hypertrophy mezzos, you know like day one is you just do, you know, sets of five to seven repetitions in the hacksquat with some posterior chain work after. This is an example of you miss squats in the hole and your aquatic extension abilities what's limiting you. So notice we start with hacksquat and here's a thing. Sets of five to seven repetitions in the hacksquat deep strict with a pause will build your quads not only size wise but already strength wise. If you're missing squats in the hole and you have still set some ability to adapt to training left, you're not like 89 years old or some shit like that. No offense grandpa. Then what ends up happening is your quads have to get stronger doing this and have to get bigger and then you see really big gains on your squats because that limiting factor starts to become much less of a living factor as your knee extension ability goes up. Day two of that program is sets of eight to ten of the leg press and sets of eight to ten the high bar squat, a little bit of posterior chain work after notice it's a little bit of posterior chain work because we have a limited ability to stimulate and recover and we're intentionally saying we need more quad work than posterior chain because we have assumed here our posterior chain is not the limiting factor of us it's relatively stronger than our quads are. Day three you do a bunch of light sets with three six reps in a low bar competition squat pausing at the bottom because we want to keep those technical qualities really really in line and we want to make sure we don't forget how to low bar squat but we're tired of getting beat up by low bar squats so we reduce the weight like crazy and do take techniques slash recovery recovery session with it and it works out super super well. So you have two very similar quad workouts in the week and then one easier workout you get super recovered and you go on and next week and it acts week and next week and each time you put five more pounds on the bar ten more pounds here and there and then after a while you're way way bigger quads and way stronger and it helps to eat during this time too especially if you want to magnify this. If you're in a fat loss diet you're training your quads a lot they'll stay the same slash grow a little bit but if you're gaining some weight eating some good food even just close to maintaining beginning a few pounds during this process it can really help. First strength mezzo you do again three lower body sessions per week. Day one is that's a five to six in the high bar squat so notice we're getting more specific. High bar is more specific to power lifting competition and actually your low bar competition squat then is something like the hacks what right and a some posterior chain workout after. On day two we do five to six reps in the low bar squat with a pause and now we brought a low bar back to the equation and we're really grinding through making that stronger and in addition to that we do sets of five to eight in a hackswatt after. Okay so still have that assistance volume and that's going to continue to do a lot of strength building for the quads and also a little bit more hypertrophy even in that strength phase. Day three lightwork a little bit of posterior chain same same as last time. Day three doesn't change for almost all these and then strength mezzo two now we're getting into the heavier side of strength so we're going to set some three to four in the low bar squat with a pause. Okay that's a big deal some posterior chain work after. Day two we're going to do sets of five to six in the high bar squat sets of five to eight in a hackswatt and some posterior chain so that they two is still a big quad emphasis day for us why because we need it we need that that we know that's our limiting factor so we're going to push it really hard planning a time for a cover as well. Now peaking mezzo comes along and the example here is that on day one you do sets of singles and doubles in your low bar competition squat no pause real competition style minimum posterior chain work after maybe some glue hammer raises or something. Day two you do three to four reps in a low bar squat multiple sets this time with a pause a lot of that is to reduce the external load but still get you great practice and great stimulus. You do some high bar squatting work for sets of five to eight because remember quads are limiting factor we want to keep stimulating them at least for a while during the peak so they don't just slough off our bodies and continue to provide us with that cross sectional area and strength we so much need in the squat. Bit of posterior chain work after now after two weeks of this roughly like five week peak more or less we're only doing three to four sets of low bar no high bar no posterior chain work on that day. Really start to bring the fatigue down like we mentioned earlier bringing down the assistance work. Day three as always sets of three to six reps light with our low bar competition set up no pauses that's going to really really increase our technical abilities in the squat and that eventually we make all the adjustments we even reduce the work that we have to do in the main lifts and then voila, d-load peak success squat has gone up when you come back around to it in the next off season your best bet is to go through that analysis one more time and find out where you're missing your squats and think hmm what is the likely culprit is it all around strength is it my ability to extend my knees or is it the ability for me to extend my hips and my spine without having a disruption and technique and a folding over. That's more or less the only sort of three ways people miss squats. There's absolutely tons of new hours there's tons of weird stuff in between it's like everything's good but my knees cave in all is other problems but these described maybe 90% of anything you'll ever see as far as why isn't my squat going up so either you knees are too weak or the muscles around your knees your ability to extend your knees sucks your ability to extend your hips and your spine suck or both are relatively even and you're just not that strong and then you need a balanced mix of both folks let me know if you have any insights or any questions in the comments below click on all the links by all the things and yeah if you want scoop back a week watch that other video where we talk about the basic super easy squat fixes because some folks will come to this video and be like oh this is like brainy nerd shit agreed agreed but you can get much more simplified situation with last week's vid and if you have like some folks around you maybe friends and college or something that like they want some help with increasing their squats but they're like not ready for all this science shit you just send them that other video right and let me know and then over the next few weeks hopefully I'll be biting myself if this doesn't happen but sort of Scott the video guy and I are in charge of the channel after all over the next several weeks will hopefully be screening out to you guys some simple and advanced dunch tips and some simple and advanced deadlift tips and maybe even some pull-up stuff because I know you guys are always interested in pull-ups for some weird reasons I'm just interested in male gymnasts but before I say anything cancels me too bad we'll see you guys next time you

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization, our training modality video for today is about supersets. He doesn't that sound super? Anyway, what the hell are supersets? They're actually two types of supersets. We're only talking about one here. There is a type of superset called an antagonist muscle superset, or an unrelated muscle superset, where you do muscles, one set for a group of muscles, and then you're next superset, with no rest between, is for an intentionally un-involved set of muscles. For example, you do your chest and triceps with clustered bench, and then immediately you go into inverted rows, and you do your back and biceps with rows. That's a superset, yes, but it's not the time we're talking about here. Those are antagonistic, or unrelated supersets. They're designed to maximize how much total work you get in a minimum time in the gym. They're not ideal for hypertrophy because if you do clustered work, and then you do right after your back work, a lot of times especially if you're bigger and stronger, if you don't rest between sets, the systemic fatigue is so massive. It prevents you from doing a lot of good work on whatever that second set is, that second exercise, and then maybe it's not ideal. Great time, save versus a lot of you can still use it, but since this is a really advanced hypertrophy stuff, we're only talking about today, agonist supersets. That is, you do an isolation movement for the target muscle. Let's say skull crushers were triceps, and then right after you do a movement that is compound, but is still limited by the triceps. Something like an overhead dumbbell press or something like that. So skull crushers put the bar down, get up, overhead dumbbell press. Okay, that way your triceps get a decent stimulus in that first exercise, but then when they are already fatigued close to failure, they are the limiting factor, you do a compound exercise, you used to be that overhead dumbbell presses are for front delts, good stimulus, and triceps, great stimulus. But now because your triceps enter that exercise is almost dead, and your front delts enter completely fresh, more or less, every single of the five to ten reps you'll grind out of those dumbbell presses will be your triceps are close to failure, close to failure, and we know from tons of research and theory that if we train very close to failure, more that magnifies the stimulus a ton. It essentially lets us, these agonist supersets, take a muscle, and train it with an isolation and a compound, but the effect is like double the isolation. Really awesome way to use compounds to extra train that muscle that we want. So what you do is set for whatever isolation muscles you want, and then with no rest generally or as long as it takes triceps to just an exercises, do a compound exercise in which that muscle is involved in this way, way, way ideally the limiting factor. What are the upsides to train? So of course after words, so you see some skull crushers, dumbbell press, rest, and normal amount of time, and then hit it again. Skull crushers, no rest, dumbbell press, rest normal, and then go again. Here are the upsides. First of all, you can get an amazing stimulus, especially for muscles that generally have compound exercises that can train them really well, and maybe don't respond as much to isolation movement. So for example, if you do lying or seated hamstring curls very well on a good machine, that hits the hamstrings even though it's isolation so well. Well, fuck, you don't need any supersets. You're not good. Five sets of that shit by itself is going to fry the fuck up. However, some people get into a situation where let's say for triceps, they do push downs till they're blue in the face. But they really like to do his dips because dips fuck their triceps up like crazy. But they also fuck up their chest and their front delts. It's a great all-around pushing exercise, what they can do, especially if they're really strong, is take that not-so ideal. Tricep pushed down and use it not so much to stimulate growth on its own, but to pre-fatig the triceps, so that when you switch to something like dips afterwards, you're trying to get the triceps by far the limiting factor. They're closer to failure the entire time and then they get most of the efforts. Think your pecs will eventually turn on to try to help you do as many dips as possible. But they only get to be active for a few seconds until you fail completely, your triceps are close to failure that entire time, which is a really, really big deal. Because supersets, well, eliminate a whole thing of rest, they can actually save you some time. You do lots of them to pound the volume, so it's not a specific time saver, but it's certainly less time than doing all the straightsets and then doing all the compounds that's later. On that second movement, on that compound movement, supersets can allow you to have an unbelievable mind muscle connection. For example, if you're using dips and you feel the tricep pretty well, but you'd really like more out of your dips, pre-existing a triceps with something like push downs can, as soon as you start getting dips you go, holy shit, I feel only my triceps, which can be a really awesome thing if my muscle connection is a problem for you. And lastly, you can use these in a sandwich style, which means what? You do compound heavy work for that muscle. So for example, let's say weighted dips or heavy score crushers for triceps, check. Then, because the compound heavy work is done in the fast rush fibers are fatigued, we need to pound in the rest of the work, then you can go to push downs, superset it with something like all flat dumbbell press. Push down, superset with flat dumbbell press allows you to get the heavy work in, because the big critique against supersets is if you do the isolation movement first, you kind of pre-exhaust your muscles, and then you're not going to be able to do a compound with much load. If you do a compound first, but as it's so natural size, you check that box. Then a superset after, let's you check both the heavy high tension low rep box and the metabolite super high rep box at the same time, minimal amount of total effort, maximum amount of stimulus. Super such a little shift. They're especially good if a muscle just won't fucking grow, and not only will it not grow, but the isolation movements you're using with it, you do them, and you finish them and you're like, oh, yes, I guess I feel a bit of a pump. I guess I feel some tension, but I'm really not pushing my muscle for limits. If you combine that isolation movement and intelligently use a compound after that still hits that muscle group that you were targeting, you can get way more stimulus, me like, holy fuck, I don't know what I would do if not for these supersets. They are downsides, of course, as with everything. If you can't check the four factor rest boxes before that compound shows up, it's not a good idea. Say, like, okay, well, let's see isolation. If I'm doing lat prayers, I can do a whole set of lat prayers, and then I set a pull downs, and it'll be an awesome superset. Maybe, for some people, lat prayers, huge range of motion for such a large group of muscles, that after you finish a set of lat prayers, you're like, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, it doesn't feel like an isolation. It feels like you did some fucking work. If you do pull downs right after, you're just so tired, the set of pull downs is mostly junk volume. So the good thing about isolation supersets is you generally start out with an isolation movement, but if that isolation movement is so hardcore for you, that afterwards, you need to rest a really long time to do the compound at benefit, it's probably not a good idea. So this is not an end, I'll be all. It has to be that the muscle you're targeting generally covers quite quickly and doesn't tax your systemic abilities at all. The cool thing is, is we use supersets precisely four muscles that are struggling to develop and oftentimes those same muscles. It just barely do hardly shit at all, so it doesn't even make you that tired, right? A last set of downsides. This is a very sort of very insightful and insightful, I just patting myself in the back. A little bit more of a thoughtful, biomechanics related critique. Research has confirmed that if you pre-exhaust your triceps with isolation and then you do a compound pushing move in which there's really only two degrees of freedom, elbow and shoulder. Okay. Then when ends up happening is if your triceps are really tired, but you're still pushing the bar, your packs are actually called upon more to contract than your triceps are and then up getting a good stimulus. You need even better stimulus than your triceps. A little bit of fug up. We didn't do all those skull crushers to get into the bench and have our chest take over and get the biggest effect. We want our triceps to take over. How the fuck do you do that? Well, if you have only two degrees of freedom, shoulder, elbow, then if you're triceps or a mechanical or like, let's say chemically, we just turn them off like we just dead in the nerve for a while. Just with your packs alone, you can do a close group bench, no problem because the packs bring this joint here and that's actually the only thing going on. Two degrees of freedom means really just one thing happening. It's like an extension and this flexion happening at the same time and either muscle can be taken over and over no problems. If your triceps are too tired, your pack's take over and violates the whole purpose because your triceps aren't even pushing close to failure. Your pack's like, hey, we got this. Triceps are like, sweet, take over. I'm done any way I'm tired from the isolation before, no wait on. We want an extra degree of freedom. So here's the deal. Instead, so you do some push downs, don't go lying down and do close group bench. Try this instead. Try dumbbell press because here's the thing. How the fuck are you supposed to dumbbell press with just your packs? If your triceps are so fucking weak they don't do anything. Watch this. I try to bench only with my packs, ready? My triceps have to turn on to do this. I'll just knock the dumbbells in and guess what? Your triceps are already tired. And now they have to turn on to extend your hands. And because they have to do it, your chest is only playing a supporting role. Now we're back in that ideal version of super sets where your chest is like, hey, I'm going to help you as much as you can triceps to cross the finish line. And the triceps are like, fuck, I added a shit myself. I'm there going to be going super close to failure the entire time and your ability to press those dumbbells will be limited by your triceps. They will be the ones that lead to the failure. They will be the ones that get the most stimulus. Similar idea. Let's say you do leg extensions for your quads and then you go into the leg press. Well, yeah, it can kind of work as a pretty exhaust. However, leg press, again, there's just hip joint knee joint. That's really the only thing that's involved. You can have completely deactivated quads and still do the entire leg pressing motion. No problem. Keep your glutes. So if your quads are tired, your glutes just take over and dick happens and now you have a better glute pump than quad pumping arc fucker thing. I'm doing something wrong. So a better exercise is if you do leg extensions pretty close to failure as the first set in a super set the isolation, what do you do after? I would say a good idea is to get into the squat. Because again, if you only use your glutes in the squat and not your quads, here's your femur. Here's your upper body. You're going to be down here. If you only use your glutes, you're just going to fall backwards. This part here to extend your knee has to be your quads. There's no other way out of it. So if you do a crappler or leg extensions and then you run over to the squat rack or Smith machine or something, you can't possibly just use your glutes. It's impossible. You have to actually use your quads. Then they're limiting factor. Then they get the most better. All right? So give this some thought. If you have any questions, put them in the comments below. If you absolutely love what I'm saying, subscribe. If you really love what I'm saying, just send me money. Please look at how thin I've got. I can't even afford to eat anymore. See you guys next time.

I want XYZ muscle to grow. And I go, what is the objective best way to get a high stimulus and a low fatigue? Okay, to do these exercises. But these are the hardcore exercises. That kind of sucks, you know? So the things that got me the biggest pumps, the biggest soreness, the biggest increases in reps and load, the biggest, the visual growth, were not the hardcore exercises in at least some of these cases. So seeing that myself, I was like, what the f*** am I doing here? Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. And it turns out that when I stopped training super hardcore, I got even bigger. Oh, no. Oh, no. Time to like that pipe. The loads of copium in it and start puffing. What the hell am I on? Well, let me tell you a story. First, some definitions. What I'm saying here is that my training became less hardcore and I got even more large and in charge of because I made it less hardcore. Which sucks to say out loud, it is zero vibes for it and I totally hear you. Let's define some terms and tell a little story about how I found this out and what that means for you. First, what is hardcore training? I consider hardcore training is it's a cultural definition, right? It's not exact. But I think it's got some commonalities that kind of grab back of the following features. Heavy. Like sets of 5 to 10 are hardcore. Sets of 10 plus could be hardcore, but less likely. Moving barbells around. You squat versus leg press. Everyone knows which one is more hardcore than that. It's the squat by the way. Using free weight instead of machines, right? Use dumbbell presses versus machine presses. Easy answered which one's more hardcore. The big one is training very close to failure. In chasing mega-PR's, very hardcore. And then typically big compound lifts are more hardcore than smaller isolation lifts. Things like squats, dead lifts and presses. If you see a guy squat all the way to depth, mega weight for a very close to failure set of 8. That's hardcore. Daphacit deadlift for a set of 6. That's hardcore. That's real shit. It's just not much more hardcore to push on that. So that's what I call this hardcore training. And I used to do hardcore training all the time. A few years after I started lifting, I got into hardcore big time. When you start lifting, you don't know anything. And then I discovered hardcore was a thing. And vibes wise, I really, really, really liked it. Because early in my career, not only did I want to get big, but most of the actually wanted to get strong. I wanted to get strong before I wanted to get big. And hardcore lifts are the measurement of strength. And by far, the best way to get strong. So from about age 19, when I was starting to compete in power lifting, all the way to around age 30, when I really consciously started making the transition of like, okay, I'm, I bodybuild now. This is what I do. I trained mostly hardcore. Which means what? What am I training routine typically look like? And there's lots of video evidence of me training like this. Some of it will come up in a sack when I talk about me big PR. Maybe some of it will be up on the screen even sooner, just as an example. So it's not me just saying stuff, 100% how I used to pride myself on training. I consider all other training kind of like what weak losers would do. My routines were designed around 3 to 10 rep max efforts in squats, dead lifts, dips, overhead presses with a barbell standing up all the way up and down. That's hard course. You sit down with a press, you get dumbbells, you're in a machine, and even though that counts anymore. Operate rows, lunges, pull ups behind the neck presses. Yes, Scott, how hardcore in the hardcore spectrum is a standing, heavy barbell behind the neck press. That's like 1950s type of shit, right? Like, that doesn't get much more hardcore than that, right? And so I would typically train on a push, legs, pull, rest, rest, repeat, split. So go heavy and hard for anyone muscle group on every five days, which is lots of time to recover for early big efforts. And we do about 4 to 8 working sets, straight sets, only usually low reps per muscle per session. So like every five days I would do 48 sets per muscle. If you guys have seen the literature on volume and growth, that's very low volume compared to what typically you could do to grow even more. Lots of sets of 10, I did lots of sets of 8. I mean sets of 8 until I was blue in the face. Eight is one of my magical spirit rep ranges and lots of sets of five, so well. And I would do isolation work, but like at the end of everything, when I was nice and tired, it would call an accessory work because of my power lifting back round, you do your power lifts, you do your core assistance lifts, and you do accessory work, which is like your pretend duty shoulder for 30 seconds here and there looking around and hopefully no one notices you and then you leave. That's how I handled my training. And I got strong as, and really big. Let me share some of my IPRs with you. I squatted high bar 500 for 10 with just about all the way to depth that's a cool video. I deficit, dead lifted, 550 pounds with no belt of a three inch deficit, conventional, there's hard core shit, there's people stronger than that for sure, but two my abilities like G-Wiz, you know, that's really trying, right? I did on a few occasions, I did dips with 135 pounds, 345's hanging for a sets of 10. One point I did this at 230 pounds body weight. I've done pull ups weighing to 60, where I was, I had 60 pounds of external load attached, I benched 365 for eight. I bent road 350 for eight, that's a funny video to watch, strict bent road by the way. I have the advantage of having a massive gut, but I get some credit for that. I incline benched 335 for 10. I upright road 155 for 20, remember where I was when I did that, I was like that. I don't know if there's any more like shoulder value from this than I need. I've done behind the neck press standing for 225 pounds for 10 reps. I did a in front of the neck standing to the clavicles 275 for eight weighing 240. Barbell shoulder press, which is like kind of regregious. And lots of other shit like this, heavy hacksquats, heavy leg presses, heavy close stance squats, heavy lunges, you name it a Institute lunges with 225 for reps, the whole thing. And the results from this were quite good. They're very good. I got to a drug-free 270 pounds at 30% body fat. I know what you're gonna say. Mike, you're gigantic, and fat. Scott, can we throw up a fat mic on there somewhere? Oh yeah, perfect. Can it be the, the one where I'm pale face, moon-faced, round face? You know, yeah, okay, great. And so like I was a fat for sure, but and I had lots of fat, but remember roughly around this point was when I hit tons of those PRs, I was strong. I remember when I weighed 270, I did 275 for seven in the standing overhead press. And like, oh yeah, that's real strength. That was some real shit. I had lots of muscle as well as lots of fat. And then I started a thin width. When I was 27 years old, or so I started injectable steroids for the first time. In over the next several years, I got still training this. Remember, I trained like this all the way up to about age 30. And so for the next three years, I had steroids and I was losing fat and gaining strength in muscle at the same time. So I got to about 242 and 45 pounds and about 20% body fat, training exactly like this. So like, it's a lot of muscle. That's a serious thing. And that was really cool. And that's the good stuff for the results. Now, it wasn't all good stuff. When some of these things cause me to reconsider my training philosophy a little bit. And I say philosophy, but it's really like feelings. Because philosophy is like knowledge and understanding and logic, they're typically you would expect someone's philosophy to be logically deduced like, I've considered the following variables. And based interaction, based on my desires, I think XYZ is a good idea on logical grounds. That's how I got into hardcore lifting. It was the vibes you guys, because of Barbell and it's sitting there and it's bending. Cause they're the way that it's too heavy. I want a shot of the title. I want reps for that shit. And I want them clean. I want full range of motion. I want no body English. I want to show myself that I'm a really goddamn strong. That's the only reason I did this kind of shit. I'm like, oh, yeah, I want hypertrophy. I'll just do more sets of it. It just wrong, but not optimal. So what did I get from this that wasn't ideal? I had a lot of pings and dings kind of regularly. I did get a massive discerningation squatting. I tore my addoctor doing lunges. I got my packs doing bench presses. And all the other stuff. I can't blame the bench press for that, but the consistent going to failure with sets of five to 10 and 10 to 15 reps on chest without managing fatigue almost certainly got me into the trouble with my packs. The other thing is I had to keep my volume pretty low. This was before we knew how high the volume and hypertrophy relationship went. And so in order to recover from all these PRs of heavy stuff, my volume had to be low. You guys will see this currently in micmencer accolites, folks that try to train like micmencer and heavy duty training and high intensity training and all that stuff. They'll say like, well, I only do a few sets every week for like quads or chastras, whatever, because there's such hardcore sets. I need that long to recover. And they're not lying. If you full-send all the way to psychotic failure, especially heavy, especially axially loading movements like deadlifts and squats and standing overhead presses, but he's just going to take you days and days to recover to be able to do anything like that again. And since my gold standard of going into the gym was to hit PRs every single time, which isn't a bad thing, you could overhead press three days after a really heavy a few sets of eight, but it's probably not going to be if you PRs, it's going to have to be lighter and higher upper, something like that, but I was an interest of that. And so it ends up being like, okay, for me to fully recover, I got to take either more time, which I wasn't always interested in, because neural learning occurs on a faster time scales. You want to train relatively often. So the volume has to go down. Almost everyone will tell you that if you want to train really, really high intensity, your volume has to come down and it did. And that's not ideal because then I wasn't gaining as much muscle as I could because volume is the number one, so I guess you're remotely close to failure. And remotely between the five and 30-wrap range maximum, you are going to grow the most over your muscles by doing the highest volume of training. I wasn't doing that explicitly because I was trying to save myself for bigger PRs. And muscles like my side delts that demanded way more volume for growth, biceps that demanded way more volume growth or something nothing hard core to do for biceps really. And vertical pulling muscles like my lats and stuff like that for which there's some hardcore things like the pull up, but if you think about the mid back lower back, there's stiff leg and dead lifts, railer dead lifts, deficit dead lifts, all kinds of barbell rows, versus like pull ups and pull downs. Not really, also pull downs are not hardcore. I did some, but I thought, come on. Scott, you ever see those, the guy's loaning like extra weights onto the pull down and like swinging around and doing like sets of five and shit on pull downs. Like what is the, what is there trophy you're looking at for this? Like what the fuck is going on? Like look, it's a totally fine way to train, but on my vibes thing, it wasn't hardcore enough for me. And so these muscles side delts by steps vertical pulling muscles, we're not very well developed compared to my other muscles. Now my legs were massive. My chest was, the massive, my mid and lower back were super, supernarly is how the hell do you stay completely flat back with 250 kilograms, fire and 50 pounds for reps to a deficit with no belt. You have to have the musculature there and that's how you develop it. So like my mid back, you guys have seen pictures of my mid back. And my spinal erector's look like two cocks meeting at the top of my back. It's really wacky. And so I've accidentally developed those muscles, but side delts, lats and biceps think about this from an aesthetic perspective for bodybuilding. If you have big ass biceps, big ass side delts and huge lats, that's really important. But from an aesthetic perspective, it really thick lower back. Can bodybuilding? Does that matter? I mean, if it's really, really thin in your own open bodybuilding, the judges will judge you, but it's not exactly like, oh man, if you could just add pounds and pounds with mid back, he'd be unstoppable. I don't think anyone's ever said that about anyone. This is probably never been true. So I got some cool stuff, but a little bit more pings and dings, missed opportunity to grow from a very low volume chasing PRs with heavy weight and very systemically fatigued moves. And also some muscles were just underdeveloped because I wasn't going to do the volume or the exercise selection to make sure they got checked off the box. So what did I discover about training that made me change my ways? I didn't just like vibe it out of this. I vibe it into hardcore training, but I didn't vibe out of it. I actually logic my way out. First is the idea about training volume and growth. I read enough literature and did enough of my own experimenting to realize that so long as the weight was challenging. And a roughly low R, I really like anything around three or four reps and reserve with good technique. Set number was the term dial for growth. As long as it's relatively heavy, relatively close to failure, doing two sets, grows you more than one, doing three sets, grows you more than two, and that relationship weekly. There is no evidence so far that it's convincing that relationship has been shown to stop or curb. What am I saying? I'm saying in studies that have compared 30 weekly sets to 40 weekly sets or roughly thereabouts, every single one of these studies so far is either showed maybe no change, but almost all of them have showed distinct increases and muscle growth at 40 sets per week that at 30 sets per week on average. So if you're thinking, well, if I do five sets of delts this week versus if I picked a different exercise that didn't beat me up so much in my lower back, I could do 10 sets with that make a difference with man of 30 and 40 make a difference. Five and 10 is gonna be in an enormous difference. So I really got in time, it was a professor by now at this time. I was collaborating with folks like Dr. Brad shownfeld and it just stared at literature long enough and you're like, I'm doing something that I know to be scientifically in adviceable. And maybe the science is all on torps who just undergrads and the probioti builder's no better and I've made that argument a bunch, but then it's time to go, okay, the science is this, let's see how my body feels. And that's the next point that made me discover what I was doing wrong and training here basically what I could have done better. And then I was doing a lot of different systems and axial fatigue. My lifting for hardcore lifts was causing so much fatigue that I was capping my volume low. I was looking at literature and I was like, I should be like 15 sets of quads per week, but I'm doing eight sets of quads per week because like one does not simply do like high bar squats for 15 sets, like that's crazy. You're not gonna record from dick at that point and then you're chest and back training is also screwed. So what I was doing is I was using such hardcore lift and feeding me up so much that I was actually underfeeding my body volume, which is like kind of the opposite of what you wanna do. It's kind of like, I make a shitty analogy. It's if you are trying to go out there and meet girls, but your idea about how to do that is to be like, I have to be the best looking guy. I'm gonna be at home lifting and trying to different outfits and doing different hair styles and making sure I know how to pose and I'm just gonna do that forever. But the girls are out there. Like right, right, right, right. But I'm really optimizing this. Like okay, what do you really wanna get out there? You gotta get out there. If you really want size, you gotta do higher volumes and if you're like, yeah, but I'm doing this thing now, that makes me big and strong. Maybe now as big as I could be, but strong and I'm doing it for vibes. It starts to feel weird that you're just justifying higher lifting because you like it unvives. There's nothing wrong with that. I'll come back to that. But if you want ultimate size, you're gonna have to do kind of what science and what your body say instead of vibes, right? A really simple example of this is like, I could get to 15 sets of quads per week if I did a combination of squats and leg presses. But for many years of my life, only interested in doing squats and leg presses were kind of like, wow, this is bitch-made. Or maybe I could have even leg presses were too fatigued. I could have done some leg extensions, but you did not see me do leg extensions. Basically ever, for first 15 years of my life, because I was like, people with injuries do those. That's the hardcore vibe I was chasing. Another one is muscle targeting. Some machine and isolation moves, simply focus in and stimulate the target muscle as well as or better than the hardcore moves for a tiny fatigue fraction. For example, one of my older training partners got into a technique, he figured out for belt squats that was like dominant. It was superior and belt squats versus high bar squats, for example, completely eliminate axial fatigue. They completely uninthifete you've loading your spine vertically because the belt goes around your hips, not your spine. And so, belt squats, Scott, how much less fatigue in your experience do belt squats cause for your whole body than high bar squats? Like half. Like if your quads still need a beating, they will get a beating from belt squats and nothing else will stop them. Whereas if you're doing high bar squats, it's usually true for most people that quads aren't even limiting factor. Your adductors get beat up more, which is great, amazing for sports, amazing for health, amazing for function and strength. But also, like your lower back and upper back, will get beat up to where a cutely and assession, the reason you're not doing any more squats, isn't cause your legs are giving out, it's cause the rest of you's giving out. And so, once I caught this kind of perspective, some shoulder machines, some cable machines for biceps, some basically this example of belt squats, versus high bar squats, let me to believe that like, I want XYZ muscle to grow. Because at some point, I'm just getting bigger and stronger overall. That worked up as awesome. Then I looked at my body, like a hand out is something's need to be bigger than others because some of the others are lacking. And I was like a side delts, biceps, lats, even quads for systemic fatigue caps. And like, what is the objective best way to get a high stimulus and a low fatigue? Okay, to do these exercises, but these are the hard core exercises. And like, they're kinda sucks, you know? It's like, someone's like, asks you what kind of food you like best. And you're like, like, Swedish food. Swedish is my favorite. And they do like a blind taste test and you try a bunch of different cuisines, like a hundred little spoonfuls of food. And you're like, okay, how'd I do? They're like, tie foods actually, your favorite food based on ratings. And you're like, is that really true? That's really true. And you can identify it as like someone who loves Swedish food and it just turns out like, oh, well, actually the things in the real world that seem to get you going, are tie food. And then you just have to accept that. So the things that got me the biggest pumps, the biggest soreness, the biggest increases in reps and load, and the biggest, the visual growth, were not the hard core exercises and at least some of these cases. So seeing that myself, I was like, what the f*** am I doing here? And here's the last one that really did it for me. I started competing in bodybuilding, usually very unsuccessfully, and a few times with decent outcomes. And I, first was going as a coach to these competitions, before I competed myself, I was going as a fan. And I realized that absolutely nobody who actually competes in bodybuilding really gives a shit about what you can lift. Scott, imagine coming up to Nick Walker right now and being like, Nick, so you used to lift more weight. Now you've been with RP, Jared's been helping you with your technique. It looks like your technique master, but the weights are way lighter. Don't you feel bad about that? You get Scott, if you told Nick, like, hey, if you got back into really heavy lift, don't you think you'd grow more? What do you think he'd tell you? Like, that's awful. Hey, get the f*** outta here, kid. I got another set coming up. But for real, it'd be like, yes, I know that. I train like that before. I got lots of dings and bruises. I got really big, but I got even bigger doing the focus shit that actually makes sense. And so I had a big ego about how was approaching my lifting. I wanted to be the most hardcore. So another body moves to talk about walking lunges or leg presses or leg extensions or all the stuff I'd be like, what can you f***ing high bar squat? And the answer was like, I was one of the better high bar squatters in bodybuilding for my high leg, my bodyweight, and it's like, okay, sweet. So what does that mean on stage? What does that mean for your quads? Could your quads be bigger? If you did other things instead of just high bar squatting? And at some point, the question was answered, yes. And then what the hell is I supposed to do? This in power lifting and in strong man, these lifts are everything. But at bodybuilding, there means to an end. And if you can get to that end in a more efficient means, you've got to drop the ego off at the door. So here's how I came to change my ways. At first, here's what I did. I did not abandon compound lifts. But I did remove the ones that had the lowest stimulus to fatigue ratio as for hypertrophy for me, low bar squats. They're designed to give you advantage and leverage, not disadvantage and leverage. Just advantages what you want for growth oftentimes are really focused in a one muscle. And advantage lets you lift more weight, but it really just lets you lift more weight. So you could good at that. Your bones and tendons grow and stuff. That's cool. But as far as hypertrophy, you're actually getting less hypertrophy from an even higher workload and even higher risk of acute injury. No more low bar squats. I stopped doing racked eggs or floor beds. And every time I would deadlift, I would do deficit deadlifts. Because they expanded the range of motion. I didn't have to use as much weight and the stimulus to my glutes, to my back, was much, much bigger, whereas the fatigue was comparable. And so that's really, really good. I added in more paused lifts. That's what I was a really big deal. I had been through some injuries. And I'm like, I'm mostly gonna pause almost all of my lift now because I don't see a downside. And I see an increase in safety. And I think that's a really good. So I started pausing my lifts and I chose longer ranges of motion lifts, like cambered bar rows and set of regular rows, cambered bar benches and set of regular benches, deficit deadlifts, good mornings to the rack and things like that. I also started incorporating more Smith machine variations just for something different to do that wasn't barbells. Another thing is stability, you can really connect with your chest when you're pressing on a Smith in a way that you sort of can't with a barbell, not barbell bench or an incline as good and I'm not taking anything away from him. But sometimes just variation on Smith, you can really connect with your muscles better because you don't have to do the cognitive work, the neural throughput work, of actually stabilizing the barbell to nearly the same extent. And these Smith machine lifts let you bias targeting of muscles in a way that barbells can't, for example. High bar squats are amazing for your quads. But if you want your quads to grow even more per any unit of time that you spend working on them, if you get into a Smith machine and especially if it's a slanted Smith machine where the slant goes forward as it goes lower, if you push your feet a little bit in front of where that barbell would land on the slant, you can maintain way, it's essentially completely upright upper body posture and your knees go way over your toes at the bottom end, which means the fraction of load and the stimulus and thus growth that is given to your quads in that feet forward Smith machine squat is higher and the fraction that's given to your lower back and your glutes and your mid back is lower. But like when I do squats, it's a quad movement for me. And so I started doing these kind of feet forward squats and I was like, damn, these hit and I'm like the same fatigue I would be from regular squats except my quads have one and a half times more stimulus and they're getting bigger. That was a real big change for me. That was a real big change. That was kind of the intermediate stage. So there was early micro did stupid shit, brochure at the gym and had to learn like everyone else. There was 19 to 30 year old mic who did hardcore dedication all the time. There was 30 to 40 year old, 30 to 39 year old mic who did what I just described basically is like slightly better SFR version of this but still lots of hardcore stuff. And then now my approach to training is different even still as I'm getting older. Today, I only essentially go by stimulus to fatigue ratio. Does the muscle get nuked? While systemic fatigue, axial fatigue and local joint and connective tissue fatigue like how are my elbows liking this, staying low or reasonable. If it's a high SFR exercise, your boys doing it. And I'm gonna, what it looks like. Those, so like I get a lot of criticism from some folks understandably from my lying curls thing where I lie down and a bench and do the curls to the ground with dumbbells. You guys, of course that's not hardcore. It combines two bitch-made things at the same time, dumbbell curls which are lame. And lying down while doing them, what are you going to sleep is the worst and because the leverage to disadvantage, you can only use like 30 to 35 pounds of the most, I can't shit, I don't know, Eric Jinik, he might be able to use 45, but Eric Jinik could curl like 185 if he stood up with a barbell. So this whole exercises thing, the, for the only reason I do lying curls is for me lying dumbbell curls, scott a U on this train lying dumbbell curls are the best SFR by SFR by SFR exercise you've ever tried. They absolutely are. There's no competitor. And so you can try these yourself too. If you use good technique keeping your chest personally up really slowing the descent, gently touching the dumbbells at full extensions the ground and coming back up, a few myaret match sets of like 15 reps, your biceps gets sore for like six days. They get a pump that you've never had from bicep training every in your life. It's wild, it's lame, yes it's lame, but I don't care because I just want muscle growth with minimum effect on fatigue and joints. I'm beyond that point where I care enough about my low, it's gotta be barbell curls. I used to be that guy. I curled like with some interesting, but not, not cheating technique 135 for a set of 10 before that's somewhere lost in Facebook videos, somewhere along lines. I've done that shit. It's cool vibes are great, but actual effect is lower than the stuff that's kind of lame. I no longer have a big ego attachment to big weights or barbell lifts. That's a thing. I used to like crazy and it's always tempting, but I'm just like non-through. I'm done with vibes. I don't train on vibes anymore. I train on stimulus to fatigue ratio. And like right now I'm training my shoulders. It's super high volume with really wussy exercises. My shoulders are blowing up. And like it's great to be blowing up. I don't like how it happens, but I do care about what I like or don't like anymore in the gym. It's about maximum effect for me. I'll tell you about how this relates to you in just a second. So I do miss these big lifts sometimes, but on vibes, but vibes just don't go far. And so I'll say right now, I'm recording this at the very, very beginning of a 15 week diet, which I'm gonna be getting more jacked and more lean at the same time, but on very, very low gear, 150 total milligrams by the way of anabolic andogenic intervention. We'll put it that way. I am 235 pounds as of this morning. And I have like veins and places that I typically never had, but maybe below 225 I had them. And so I am by far my most jacked and at least hurt by the way, my body feels phenomenal. And I know the most direct exercises that work best for me and a rep range is that work best for me to nuke all of my muscles whenever I have like, if you're like, hey, how do you really get your delts going? I know the answer to that question now, better than I've ever known it, and I can do it in the gym. So I've all those advantages, and I'm 41 years old. And so on the other end of it, is like, well, what about your ego? What about big hardcore lifts? I love that shit, but I gotta be, you know, place of mind where I do logical shit to further my physique development. Because I really just care about having an awesome physique at this point. I really cared about that for years and years, but I wasn't able to let the ego go. Here's why you don't see me doing the hardcore lifts as much anymore. Now, you will see me doing dips. You'll see me doing pull ups, walking lunges, leg presses, hacksquats, Smith presses of all kinds, upright rows, et cetera, for sure. Hardcore is not dead, but I'm gonna do very few heavy dead lifts, heavy squats, standing presses, and super heavy rows. Because I need muscle stimulus, not ego stimulus, and added injury and fatigue risk. Do I love this new way of training? No, I don't. Absolutely not. But I know that it is my best path forward for physique excellence in my own regard. Yes, I do know that. If anything, what I learned from all this is that those on the path to betterment often do what they must not they want. Because what I wanna do is take every set of full-cent failure because it's a religious experience. And what I wanna do is do hardcore lifts only. That would be unbelievable, like total war. And that's how you used to train for years, but that didn't get me where I wanted with my physique and training differently, more specifically. And I'm slightly more lame way from this perspective, got me way, way, way better result. Let's answer the last question. What should you do about your training? I would love nothing more than to be up the paint-truth state for hardcore training for you guys. It would be amazing. And young fat, maddie, Mike Israel tell, definitely was that person. And I was hugely proud of it. But how I train today is optimized for my goals and my constraints, goals being maximum, hypertrophy constraints being injury history, age, someone on so forth, not yours. So yes, you should always use small progressions and excellent technique. And if you feel it a lot in the muscle or you just love the vibes and your growth is good by all means, dip into the hardcore shit. Dip into the barbell lifts, sets of five to 10, failure or very close, and they will make you bigger. They'll make you stronger and they make you tougher than shit. I got into Brazilian jujitsu training at the peak of my barbell strength. And I tell you what, like you can violate a lot of concepts in jujitsu, just maybe in strongest. Like if someone tries to get you from behind the neck when they're in front and snap you down, but you've done good mornings for sets of five with 330 pounds, they pull on you and they're like, ah, this isn't work. It's amazing. I love it. It was awesome, awesome. And if you're into that vibe of just getting just narrowly strong, 1,000% by all means do it. On the other hand, if you ever wanted to more target a training, if you ever want to explore where stimulus and fatigue ratio could be better, it's just one mesocycle away from you just trying it on your next program. If you have the RPI Pertrary Fy app, we don't tell you what exercises to do. We can recommend them and soon we'll be recommending them with more advanced intelligence behind the scenes, but at the end of it, it's just your call. And we don't even tell you what rep range is. That's also on you. So if you want to try the hypertrophy app to do and sets a 5 to 10 in squats and deadlift, God bless you, you can do it through the app. But if you want to do sets a 15 to 20 and slightly more isolation exercises and more guarded exercise, belt squats, something like that, then 100% you can do that to the app to check your link in the description, give this some thought, and answer the following question in the comments, why am I coping so hard about this? Is it Scott, is it because I never actually trained hardcore and I'm a fraud and I have excuse excuses? Now every smaller thing or the mic mentor. I just never will amount to be anything like mic mentor and it hurts me every single day. And I gotta get out there and say stupid bullshit to make up for my honestly just small penis, maybe a bull circle, see you guys next time.

Folks, hello, I am Dr. Mike Roosevelt for Renaissance Preudization. This is Dr. Derek Wilcox, of also Renaissance Preudization. And Derek is a former equipped powerlifting champion record holder of the whole deal. And we actually have two things to talk to you guys about today. One is water cutting for sports of all kinds. Well, weight class sports where you have to make a water cut. And we're going to be specifically focused on probably what longer duration water cuts like when you're 24 hours out, 12 hours out sort of thing or do you want to chat at any of them? Any two hour on the right side as well. Yeah, so it's similar dynamics. Excellent. And in the back of your minds, I want you to also think of these Steven Segal movies under siege one, which was on a boat and under siege two, which was on a train. After siege three on a plane and my personal favorite hyperthera can move the under siege four, the derigible slashes up and slash blimp version is highly awaited, but not around one day before looking. Dear Mr. Segal, ask why please get on to making those movies. In the interim real quick before we talk about the at least seven common mistakes of water cutting. Derek, what was your most extreme water cut that still resulted in a high degree of performance and thus a good showing on the powerlifting platform for you? I would say around 25 pounds. You started at what and wait in at what? I'd started at 23 and got down to 198. Weight in successfully. Reconcerted well reconstituted up to what? Back up to around 223, 225. Day of the meet. And performed well. At least up to standards. Not a crazy day, but it wasn't a bad day. And that's most time when you introduce a big water cut, that's about the most you can hope for. Because there's so much stress and a little bit of a teagg that comes from that that you're really just trying to bring your performance has been in training at that higher body weight and present it in a lower weight class by bringing your body weight back up. So it's hard to have a really big huge jump in performance when you're putting your body through that much stress. So what you're saying is any extreme water cut comes at the trade off of hitting these magic meat PRs and that more than likely what you're doing is making a calculated trade off of saying I could have the meat of my life at 220. Or I can have a much better meat at 198 than anyone else at 198, but not exactly hit these superstar to 42 numbers at 198. Right. I ideally you're just trying to maximize that specific weight class. And a lot of the times I only recommend people have these big water cuts. One, if it's some kind of super high priority, like a professional meat for money, you're trying to actually win something significant or you're trying to break a big record. A lot of times, you know, it's like local state records are always going to be there. There's plenty of those to have national world all time records. Those kinds of things are what really make those big weight cuts worth it. Yes. In my mindset, every meat is a life or death weight cut because I'm a fucking champion. And I always bring 100% what would you say to that as a powerlifting coach more power to you? Okay. You're going to be laughing at me. Why are you laughing? I'm just coming straight from my heart. You know, I'm on the job, you'll fellow. No, that's a really good recipe for very short longevity. Career longevity or longevity longevity? Yes. Yes, excellent. Here lies, Dr. Mike. He died peaking for a powerlifting meat. Yes. P.S. he wasn't even that strong. I would like that on my tombstone. His tombstone actually a thing or is that just a brand of pizza that you heat up in the oven by yourself when you're lonely and at home. You can, yeah, double on tangerine there. You can have an epitaph on one of them. Yes. I guess you could put that on a pizza. Why not? Yeah. In pepperoni shapes, excellent. Now that we got all the important stuff out of the way to the particular's. So you set me a little list, which is actually in an RP article that people can Google. And it is some common mistakes in water cutting and I want your hot takes on all these. First is loading water too much slash too little. What the fuck is water loading? How's that different from when I get as the French say, Elif thirst and I simply drink drink. Sure. The biggest part of water manipulation is tricking your body into holding less water than it normally does simply to bring the number on the scale down. What we do with water loading is we're going to intake way more. Usually at least double the amount of normal recommended water so that we start manipulating hormones inside the body like ADHD, no duster, on et cetera, et cetera, and you're tensing too. Oh, these like blood pressure and kidney regulating hormones that change how much fluid or held in your bloodstream as well as yourselves. And when we have consistently high amounts or a hyperhydration hydrated state, your body is going to naturally start changing those hormones and pushing all the fluid out that it can kind of like relaxing its need for water. Right. It's opening the floodgates in your kidneys and you start peeing like crazy. So these hormones don't take all that long to get manipulated. We're talking about the course of hours, not days. No weeks. So I started water loading six years before my friend. Overkill. You probably went through a few toilets for that. Lorieously, loaded. Yeah. These are the velocity of the urine hitting the poisson over and over again. Much, much, much. They got hit the toilet. He's like, is there a horse that lives here? Also? Yeah. It's one of the things that I see the most because, you know, it's a short time period to really get those hormones going to a significant degree. But I've talked to so many people to start water loading two weeks. I've even heard up to a month before a competition, which, you know, a month in the course of, you know, looking at a window of hours, it's not overly practical, which is going to add a ton of stress to your meat prep and probably, you know, shoot yourself in the foot with your training performance getting ready for it. Also, if you peeing your foot, you can shoot yourself in the deck because of the urine there's a seed. There's so much inner bladder pressure is just going to shoot out of crazy velocity. So doctors like, well, you're going to lose your toe. Also, believe it or not, your insides are fucked because that much pressure on the insides. It's also bad for you. Yeah. Exactly. Bok. All right. So in your world view, water loading should look like what and start approximately when, if I am, let's say, I have a 24 hour weigh in. 24 hour weigh in. You process would usually start five maybe six days out. We start drinking somewhere around double the recommended amount. The recommended amount is about one ounce per kilogram of weight. That seems reasonable. Yeah. Sometimes we'll take that up to like three, three ounces per kilogram of weight. For me, that always ended up being somewhere between two and a half gallons. That's exactly what my mental math looks like. So that's not crazy. That's just four gallons of shit. Right. Well, we're manipulating all these things and you can definitely drink a lot more. It doesn't take a crazy crazy amount. I've seen people drinking like four gallons a day and I'm like, I hope that was fun because there was no added benefit to it in the least. There was a lady who drank eight gallons for a radio contest to win some kind of prize. It goes like a PlayStation or something. Yeah. She drank like eight gallons and died. Yeah. So high point of training is a real thing. Yeah. Yeah. You might just doesn't know how to function anymore. There's no signaling neurologically going on anymore. But that's part of the process. We'll get to that later. But yeah, usually about five or six days with two to three days of that really, really high water intake. We accompanied it with salt as well because you have to pay attention to those electoral lights. And all the other hormones that are based around fluid retention that are based on that specifically like Aldoz de Roen from most part. And then we start changing those things and we go to a distilled water. So that there's very little in the water to begin with. They can attach to anything else. High water, high electrolytes first. Yes. Continue high water removal electrolytes exactly. It helps push all those remaining electrolytes out very quick. Let me guess next, you start to remove water. Yeah. Bock. It's the craziest thing because you have such a quick velocity of pushing all that body fluid out because of all the hormone changes. And if nothing else, the pressure of more water coming in. As long as you don't taper it down slowly, you cut it off all at once. Then you get a really great effect of your body pushing out the water before it knows that it doesn't have any more coming in. Yes. So you're a fan of when the water is pulled. It's pulled either very low or nothing at all. Yes. Basically when the water is cut off, you don't drink again until afterweigh it. And how long do you want that period of no water coming in? Depends on how much there is to cut. Again, we're telling that 24-hour weigh-ins, but you know, two-hour weigh-ins, all those different time factors really play a big part of it. And that's going to be something we can access in future articles and books, etc. But certainly. Okay. But generally speaking, a good range for most applications is what it would. Like 24 hours, 12 hours, or we're telling about 48 hours with no water. For just just for an example, like that 25-pound cut that was very successful, very extreme. Yeah. Mine, my time without water was about 36 hours. Okay. Oh wow, that's not that long. Yeah. So that's the longest that I ever took it. But that's also to give more time between that point of getting that flushing effect by the body to drop all that water wave to having enough time to sweat the rest of it out. Yes. And there's so many different methods for that. Okay. So myth number one, loading water too much to early. So I start loading water anymore than a few days before it's stupid. If I start loading water the day before, you're just going to get really bloated. And backwards to what we're going to. Right. Okay. Um. All right. We actually knocked out two because the second one is water loading too early. Number three, tapering water intake down. What do you see people? Oh, the myth is tapering water down. Right. High water, high water, trick the body into thinking there's too much water. I all of my hormonal changes basically make me a water dropping machine. Yep. And then you stop the water such that the body is still pissing out like crazy. But there's nothing coming in. So you get this magic period of several hours of extreme diarrhea. And that allows you to push that momentum all the way to becoming very light and low and water. Right. So this method is something I've seen with people that would start water loading like two weeks out. And I think it comes from kind of the like maybe magazine articles of body building a long time ago. And there are certain parts of the protocol for body building, peaking with water manipulation that, you know, like medications and such that are tossed in that also manipulate the fluid. Yes. Yeah. And they kind of leave that part out or they didn't know about it. Yes. So that water tapering was often accompanied by different diuretics and things like that. And let's not cut those people too much like either. I've known plenty of body builders who cut their salt six weeks out. Yeah. Not just like good. It's just like nonsense. Your coach tells you and you carry around a jog and you think you're cool because you carry on the jog, taking off drugs and diet long enough so that you're lean and everyone thinks you're correct just because you look like that. Right. And then you just never examine those ideas again. Yeah. No, they go for body buildings to look good on stage at that exact moment. Like does the rest of the time really matter that much? I guess unless you're on his to actually just matter is not at all. Right. So it's the same thing for weighing in. You don't want to be that weight aside from that instant that you step on the scale. And then you want to be on your way back. That's okay. So okay. That makes a lot of sense. Number three is tapering water and take down the got that. So don't do that cut hard. Right. And then number four is, no, okay, real quick. I know some people are going to ask this. You fucking people. I'm still eating food. Is it okay if the food has a little bit of water in it? Like, I'm not how much zero with milk. But like, I want to eat some white rice and white rice is made with water. Is that okay? Or am I going to rice cakes only? Rice cakes definitely have benefits there. Oh, a lot of times I'll work with people especially with the shorter way in periods. Well, go ahead and get as dehydrated as possible to get below the weight class. And then start adding in carbohydrates as dry as possible. Just like those rice cakes that you're talking about to where you're basically exchanging water weight and carbohydrate weight or muscle glycogen weight. You drop the water weight and the glycogen will also drop from low carb diet a week. But once you get your body weight to a certain lower point below your weight class, you can start adding in carbohydrates in exchange for less water weight. But you have more potential energy stored in the muscle. And when you add the water back in, it's still set up. It sticks. Oh, that's really in. That period of higher carb is lower water for a few hours. Brutal because your thirst response is going to go in there. Right. Right. Because your body's pulling so much more fluid than whatever is left, basically into the muscles. Yes. But especially doing that the night before we ends, helps sleep quality events. Oh, because you get some carbs you're fucking how. No. That's fucking brilliant. Ignoring electrolyte balance is number four. Ignore electrolyte balance because that word electrolyte is too big for me to be able to spell. I don't understand it. It offends me. And thus, I ignore it. And I just pretend it's too sciencey and lame. We use another word. We use the 90s also meant lame for it. It's now cancelable offense. In any case, what am I going to do with electrolyte balance here during a water cutting process? That's going to really help me out. Oh, paying attention to your salt intake is the most influential part of that. Like I mentioned before with the water loading, we're trying to increase that state of hyperhydration. Yes. And basically doing everything we can to get the body, the whole does much water is possible. We're trying to bloat on purpose. Exactly. And that always freaks people out because the scale is going to go up a little bit. There's a typical freak out of the next day, your two pounds heavier than you were before. You're supposed to be going down like, ah, what's going on? Right. So I have to do everyone basically expect this. You're going to look like a swollen tick on dogs back the next day. But the day after that, typically you're back down to where you start it or a little bit lower and you're that all the fluid retention in your skin and every well system. Start and come out because you're being like crazy. Exactly. The hormones are doing what they're supposed to. And you look like a normal tick. Yes. Like a tick that if you look back into a tick yearbook, you'll be like, oh, so good looking tick. Yeah, back in the day before it got so big. Yeah. And then during the carburetor reduction process towards the end, you don't reintroduce electrolytes just yet. Depends on how much play room we have with the body weight. Okay. If you can add in a little bit of salt, just to mainly prevent cramping, right? Because salt by itself doesn't blow you up. Right. It attracts water of that. It holds like 40 times its own weight and fluid. So that's that's why it's so influential in our body hydrider. It's around four times. Yeah. Okay. So that actually perfectly brings this into a number five mistake. Poor reconstitution or recomposition. What is it that people get most wrong about recomping? Where do they go wrong with that? They don't think about what they need to eat or drink to hold on to the water. Let me tell you my plan for recomping after 25 a.m. Men, especially strong people of any gender or sex, are made with steak, fatty steak. I go away and it's got salt. Yeah. Check one salt and I have some asmr sweet tea. A nice steak, tons of eggs. I'm good. Correct. Yeah. The big thing with that is it's a very, very common issue. After weighing in, especially for 24 or way and you're thinking, you're just going to gorge yourself. I love it. You can't take steak. There's no strategy. It's just, okay, I got to put on weight. How do you put on weight? You eat a bunch of crap. I want you to put on my six-year-old pound life, TV show. And I go, whatever the fuck those people are eating, that clearly puts on weight. And then I just order pizza. They're permanently reconstituting their pizza. The doctor's like, I'm the bad side of things you're dying. Yeah. You're a good side. You're very full of all sorts of life. Maybe too much. Yeah. Well, potentially go. So before I eat a pizza that is wrapped around a taco bell order, that's right. Pizza, Rita. And because the pizza is the wrapping, it also culturally becomes a burrito or taco. And then it sort of makes a lot of sense. But clearly I'm going wrong there. What should most folks be eating in order to get back as much of their waterway response? So the bigger thing is you want to keep digestion moving quickly. A lot of people get shut down like crazy when they eat tons of fats and stuff. Yeah. So fat is going to slow down digestion and green vegetables. High fiber. That's going to slow down digestion. So you really just focus on a moderate amount of protein, primarily just carbohydrates. Yeah. And you drink naturally because you're trying to get all that food in any way. And you want to stay away from anything fatty and general. Boss, it's going to start changing with those signaling mechanisms and stomachs. It's going to tell your brain I'm not hungry anymore. We better be hungry if you're putting on 20 pounds of weight in one day. You are ruining the powerlifting recomp of donuts and pizza in the retos. What I want to do, Derek, is pretty simple. I want to compete in powerlifting. And I want to weigh in under my weight and take some selfies and in the scale. And then I want kind of an Instagram story, timeline of all the fun foods ate with my cool powerlifting friends. I know I have a meat, whatever, in twenty-four hours, the which I have to optimize my performance. But that's what's, but I can always have not so great meat, but my outfits look cute. And I can post that I had fun with my boyfriend anyway when I went to Las Vegas to compete. Absolutely. And my followers don't seem to care about my meat results. They care about how I look when I compete and also that I'm having fun and being and having fun means that you junk food, you're ruining all this for me. But assuming that I'm the weird kind of person that wants performance and actually when stuff, I'm sticking to what kinds of foods. Can you give me some sample foods? Because it's just not that creative. Everything I thought of, pizza, beer, pizza, leftover pizza crusts. What kind of foods? Because clearly all the normal junk foods are off the table. Right. Because I ate them. The typical thing you go to after weighing in for parlor to me to see either I hopper waffle house. That's a rule in the table. You basically all we're Bob Evans. Bob Evans, if you're in the Midwest. Yeah. But unfortunately most of the time they're cooking on this giant griddle and they just like throw four pounds of butter on their own. Yes. And then cook everything else. So when you're like can I have no butter, they're like, yeah, they're not going to add another pound of butter all that. Yes. Yes. Yes. So that really causes you to run into problems. If you can stick with a light potato, like a hash brown that's really light and oil or something like that. Big potato. Sure. Yeah. The fiber starts to run into a little bit of issue there. Okay. But not major. Serial can work okay if it's a little bit of fiber serial. Okay. So go to the store and get kids serial. There's a better option than go to the griddle house and get griddle house stuff. Right. Because most of the time you're not going to have four pounds of butter in your serial. Most of the time. Things like that. But it's basically the reverse of what you were doing before because you started with high salt and then you dropped your carbs. Now you're going to reintroduce all the salt that you want just like you're salt loading again because you've depleted your body. You need to reintroduce it. Yes. But since those hormones have flipped, now dust your own has changed its direction towards going to cause you to retain more salt. Yes. Your body is going to be really prepared to hold on to it. Yes. Which is good, which is exactly what you want because water retention is going to come much faster. If you've had a low carb diet through the week, your insulin sensitivity is going to be up through the roof. And when you add those carbohydrates in after you've weighed in, your body is going to soak it all up. It's huge at straightening the muscle and you'll be ready to perform. Great. Kids serials. I surmise sushi if it's all you can eat sushi if it's mostly not the bullshit American stuff but like actual just like sushi rolls. No, no, Gary. Which is great because with the soy sauce. Salt and sushi and water. It's all the great stuff. Yeah, don't go getting the low sodium soy sauce on those days. Get the big stuff. Real man shit. Kids serials good. Something like a subway sandwich with like Turkey and just the bread and not a whole lot of cheeses and stuff is okay. Sure. A lot of that, especially on meat day as well. It's finding those foods that are low in fiber, low in fat and your stomach can easily digest. You don't want to go eating stuff that you're not accustomed to and look at all. Okay. During those times because your stomach is going to be more easy to upset at that point. And you've got to keep going. Yeah. You also want to keep moving through the day as you're reconstituting to keep your circulation going. And it helps digestion moving quicker as well. Moving how? Just walk around. Yeah, I have a good time. Just look at stuff. Sure. Trying to stay out of heat is a big one. I've made that mistake before. Don't go to Disney World before your power lifting. Yeah, exactly. I had a meat and Nashville one time and I was trying to reconstitute and was walking around Broadway Street. But, and going in the bars and I'm like, I have a bag full of chips and I'm eating and gallon of water that I'm carrying around, but it was hot. And it was working out. I'm going to gallon out. Right. Okay. Lesson. Learn there. Okay. Is there a gram of carbohydrates amount roughly? You want like the average sort of 200 pound power lift to consume in a 25-way and we're 500 grams of that day. We're looking at a thousand. Are we looking at a $1500? Are we looking at a $2,000? There's not really a limit. It's the limit is going to come from your stomach. Okay. So, almost nobody gets too bloated. Right. Right. A re-com. It's mostly just not bloated enough. Yeah, you're going to hopefully reach those maximum muscle glycogen stores, but it's really hard to do it one day. Yes. Unless you're using exogenous resources there, that can help a lot. But, especially if it's drug tested, made or something like that, your stomach is going to hit that limit before you go to win carbard. Another great food. Let me know if this is wrong. Frozen yogurt. Because it's super low in fats, sometimes fat free. Tons of carbs. Yeah. And you can eat it. What I like to do personally is alternate saltiness, sweet foods, because after you eat a salty food, even though more salty food is not. Like you'll see, you have a bunch of low fat Asian noodles with a bit of chicken. I can eat like 250 grams of carbs of those. And not even fucking fat in high. But then someone's like more salty stuff. And you're like, if they're like frozen yogurt, you're like yes, because your dessert, female dessert, stomach opens up. We all have one, no matter the sex or gender. And then you eat a bunch of frozen yogurt. And then you eat this weak stuff you're good to go. But then your next meal, you're super craving for the salty stuff again. And then you go out for sushi, etc. That's how it's done. Do you send all those refined choices? Yeah, definitely. Especially if you already know that your stomach can handle it. Yes, so no new shit. Right. Okay. My big thing was always eating like restaurant style, tostito style nachos with a little bit of salsa. I would add salt to the salsa and those things were already just completely covered and salt. And just that's the chips that I was eating walking around. And they, I would end up looking like a chipmunk with nuts in my mouth. All day, like two family-sized bags of those. Oh my god. But it put the weight on really quickly. Sure. Good god. All right. Number six, mistake is dioretics. How's that, mistake? That's what makes me get the water off. Dr. Wilcock, for the people that I've seen that have used those a lot, one, there's so much trial and error to begin with. Sure. Trying to figure out when you should take what and, you know, which kind of dioretic to take. How your body specifically reacts to those? Yes. There's so many variables there that would take so many different trials to figure out. Yes. And under tons of the professionals that I was your own that really got that system refined, they had it down. And it worked really well. But then we're probably, you know, three, four, five, six, and meets. That they really undershot their performance by having to experiment instead of going where they're trying to true method. Okay. So it's a big role, the dios. And that's also where you can start getting to a lot bigger health risks. Oh, yeah. This kidneys do not care for those dioretics, especially when you're already trying to dehydrate yourself. And then that much stress. Yeah. That's a bad deal. Luckily, there are no huge amount of dead power lifters. But you don't want to be the first in that category. Yeah. Richard. Richard. You'll always be in first place. But also unable to collect your trophy. That's a detriment. Yes. Okay. Number seven. Last one is depleting diets before the water cut. What does that mean? So I've had several people come to me in this kind of situation where they are way above the weight class. And they realize this like a month out. Okay. I need to drop 10 kilos to get to my weight class. All right. I can feel how this is happening. They're in the gym. They hit a good PR. Something's like, hey, bud. It's in the south, of course. Hey, bud. You got to meet coming up. I'm sure do. Like, where does that mean? Like four weeks out, brother? I've got to tell you who it necessarily is. No, one way class you can paint that. And they're like, oh shit. 198. Yeah. Oh shit. I weighed 235. Yeah. Just didn't think about that until now. To be fair, I'll see you in the afternoon. I'll look at the country for sure. But how do they sound in other parts? Hey, fuck you. Hey, what's up, Phil? A bell for your guy? What else? And like, hey, you got to meet coming up. You fat fuck. And you're a damn. But I'm 181. But I'm fat. Oh shit. That's bad. Well, yeah, I'm not even going to try the exit. I can't do it. Well, but what happens is like the week of protocol that we're talking about. Carbohydrates are a lot lower. We're manipulating all kinds of things to create a lot of water retention. And when you're training normally, you need to be eating to sustain your performance. Yes. Does mean eating car behind rates. You don't want to change those things leading up to a competition. Yes. So what these people end up doing is they'll go on a crash. Diet, like two, three, four weeks out to try and get down to the weight class. No carbs, no fats, chicken and veggies. Yeah. Basically some green veggies and proteins. But you can only drink so much water with that until you become a diuretic machine, simply because there's no carbs. And mostly no salt, colding it in. And starting that diuretic hormone enhancement way too early. Right. It's the same effect with a keto diet. You're going to get that immediate drop. Yes. But that drop now is drop you can't do later. Right. So they're depleting. They're getting closer, but they're getting closer like two, three weeks out. And you don't know it. But you can't just add a depletion strategy on top of another depletion. Yes. Because they're not rude. For my last meet, I lost 15 pounds. You're like, I gotcha. But this time you're going to lose 15 pounds again and you already lost seven. Yeah. So it's not 15 from now. It's 15 from when you started three weeks ago. Plus maybe three or four pounds of tissue that you lost. Yeah. And when you do this process correctly through water manipulation, you're going to lose that weight about 36 hours beforehand. Yeah. It starts coming down significantly at that point. And you're going to gain it in about 12 hours after you weigh in. Yes. That's how quick that needs to be. That's not weeks. Not weeks. Because you're just putting your body through a ton of unneeded stress. So ideally, watch your weight, know what weight class you're at and get within whatever percentage you know is reasonable. Before your peaking face starts, right? Arguably before your strength phase starts, such that if you are a 20 pound power lifter and you normally can cut from 235 no problem, you'd be around 235 by that time you start getting in the sets of three and six three to six reps like strength phase. So you just can train at that body weight. So because this happens all the time, guys, that's a 220, they be like, I'm a 250 right now. And I'm like, okay, well, how many we see up during me? They're like, well, like eight weeks. But I can make the cut. And I'm like, okay, so you're going to make the cut during peaking, which is the most important time for you to be hitting PRs. And when the very reason they get up to 250 is some combination of sloth, but also they didn't make a PRs because they're so goddamn big. But like, no, no, you're too big too big. And that's going to take a diet and the best time for a diet is during a hypertrophy phase, which is way before your power lifter to meet weight even before the strength phase. Exactly. I try to tell my clients and the people who sign up just for the Wonder manipulation coaching for the week of their competition, you want to be set with your body weight leading up to it. Ideally, eight weeks out at the very, very least four weeks out. Yes. Because usually before that, you're in your higher volume stages and you're training. If you're going to be making body composition and body weight changes, that's the best time to do it because you're going to help keep from losing as much muscle mass during a calorie deficit, et cetera. And when training gets to be much lower volume, higher intensity, you know, we're a little bit more susceptible to that. And you also need the energy of a eucoloric diet when you're hitting fucking big ass PRs the month before the meet because peaking is not just something that this like bodybuilding training is something that just happens. You just do it and yet it's fine. Peaking training, half to hit the big numbers. Right. Otherwise, like, what does your meat plan even look like? Like, yeah, I'm going to squat 800 at this meet like, well, how did 700 for three feel? And like, well, in this all three reps. Because I, but I was depleted. Like, you haven't had any more than 700 on your back for a month because you're tired from your diet. Well, yeah, you're still going to swine in her like, yeah, it'll all come together. Like, yeah, we're to all come apart. Literally as your tear, if fucking quads off the bone. Because you're going to accumulate so much literal damage to bone and tissue while you're, you know, calorie deficit at that point with those higher intensity weights. It's just a recipe. You guys are disaster. But weights that still aren't big enough to get you ready for the weights you're going to be meeting. Exactly. Yeah. Because you're brain and your nervous system really runs off carbohydrates to a large degree. Sure. And you also need sodium from the salt to keep those ions flowing and for all the, we have a lot of keto followers, Derek. So if you can rephrase your brain likes the carbs to it doesn't matter and by my keto bar, low card formula now, if you don't mind it don't matter. And that's really all you need to know, Derek, I'm an aspiring young power lifter. I want to be smart. And I'm sitting, but it was very sad story. One of my many uncles has passed. But bequeathed me with an enormous fortune. And I want to do this pilot from you right. And I want to hire Dr. Crook Cox to do my training programming, my diet programming, and especially, we're just my water cut. How do I get in contact with you? Well, you can mess his meal in Instagram at Wilcox Strength Ink or let me know on Facebook, same deal there Wilcox Strength. And definitely go to Orpestrach.com and go to the coaching, look up my profile, your face is one of the faces, my face is on the page. If you are not good with faces, his name is also listed under his profile. Yes. If you're good with neither names nor faces, have the person who cares for you contact Derek. Thank you so much. This was really illustrative as people much smarter than me who have those big A plus words like to say, silver's are good. Yep. And lastly, I noticed a little, oh, accent there, Mr. Dr. Wilcox. We're telling you, tell the fine folks where you're from. As more raise, no care, Lana. Okay, well, the Eastern Shoreline Rich People Money Heaven, Washington DC, Commutant, Park, Nelson, my folks is from Deep in the Hills. Woo! And that's the kind of shit we like to hear. Derek, thank you so much for coming on the channel channel. I was going to say show, we're going to say podcasts to snither one of those things. I'm on the thing with you. And, you know, so much more that could be said on that that we'll get us both cancelled folks. Don't get cancelled yourself. Don't cancel yourself with the water cut. Be smart, do the right things, and we'll see you next time.

Hey folks, I'm Dr. Mike. Welcome to Targeting the Muscle Series. We have triceps as the muscle and skull crushers as the exercise and wife as the model to demonstrate because I'm no longer sufficiently mobile to do skull crushers properly enough to illustrate them to you. You just learned to do them wrong like my fat ass. So wife? Yes. You're not microphone. So your answers are relevant. Perfect. Let's get to it. Tip number one is in the skull crusher. It is ideal to have your elbows in as much as possible. On the way down, it is critical. On the way up, it's probably okay to flare them a little bit to use your chest to help out a tad because then it allows a frap load of eccentric overload for something that you may not be able to get as many concentric reps with super elbows in. Elbows in on the way down is a must and then way up if it organically just comes out a little bit. That's no big deal. It's not crazy. My book just don't turn into a bench press. You're going to notice where Crystal puts the bar and it's going to be on her throat. Sounds awkward. I'm not in. Maybe also in. I will dress that later. So save your questions for later. And by save your questions, I mean type them in right now having not gotten to that section in the comments. It's great for the algorithm. Let's get this done. So here is the bar and you grab and notice if she's going to do it wrong, she's going to flare her shit out and turn it into kind of a close grip something rather. If she's going to do it right, she's going to start with her elbows flush in and go nice and deep. Perfect. Elbows say super straight and she's going to come up with she's really awesome. As she comes up, she's also going to keep her elbow straight. That is the ideal. If they flare a bit, I just wouldn't worry about it. One more up honey on the way in. Perfect. And all the way up. Beautiful. Tip number two is to make sure that you think about at least trying to sound breaking forward at the elbows instead of back at the elbows to initiate the movement. We'll show you what this means in a second. This is something that I discovered helps my elbow health a ton. I posted some Instagram skull crusher tips and a bunch of people get in there and they're like, yeah you look, do these if you wanted to destroy your elbows. I don't know how that sounds like a tough guy saying my elbows are made out of literal vaginas, but in any case, you can solve that problem. In most cases, if you start reaching back right away, you can get tons of elbow pain. In my experience and that of many others I have coached, if you break forward to your hips and then down just by a smidge, it's the same thing that's in a squat. Instead of breaking it your knees and going down like that, feel awkward even to demonstrate, you break it the hips gently by a little and then you let your knees go, make sure elbows feel right as rain. Okay, so grab this. Do it wrong first crystal where you just reach back. Yeah. Ooh, it can work for people. This can work. But sometimes it'll have non-consensual sex with your elbows. On the other hand, the proper way, watch her elbows will shoot towards her hips and then the bar descends. Elbows to hips and then go down just really briefly elbows to hips and then we descend just like that. It puts a ton of stretch on the tricep. It does everything we want properly and it keeps those elbows greasy. Is that good? Yeah. Yeah, do you feel greasy in your elbows? Excellent. That's gross. Tip number three is super individualized first and super varied second. You're going to do this tip however you feel is best for you and there could be more than one correct answer. The cue here or the correction or the recommendation is where are we touching? Because there's a lot of fake controversy on the internet about what a proper skull pressure looks like. Let me give you guys a tour of options. Like a tour to France except drug tested. Properly. No, not of that. Untest it. Real tour to France. Grab that shit. Option number one that is totally valid and totally fine if your elbows can take it and you feel a great connection with your tricep is actually crystalist maybe your first time doing this but you've heard that a lot lately. Touch the bar to the bench right behind you right above your head. Oh shit. Oh shit. We will have to tighten it alarms go boom. That's a thing and then press up. That's a thing people do one more time just for the viewers go all the way and literally just rest it on the bench behind you and come up. Feels weird, right? Yeah, especially with my short arms. Yes, you need longer arms. So just work on that and we'll come back next time. Great. The next option is to touch your forehead the usual the classic skull crusher. Perfect. One more just for the viewers. Notice these are all done under full control. We'll talk about that a bit. Great. Option number three is to touch the nose. Look at the little baby nose. He's adorable. Beautiful. There's touch your nose. People will see me do this online and say I'm kissing the barbell false. I'm only kiss one woman. Is that right? What was her name? All right. Even Scott the video guy like that one. Scott the video guys. A total piece of shit. So he loves drugs like that. Another option is to touch the chin. Give that a shot. Beautiful. That's great. Then option number last is this is a killer. Not everyone can pull this off. You have to have the right proportions crystal sure does is the throat. Holy shit. We're risking life and limb for this one. But it can feel amazing. Beautiful crystal. Thank you so much. I will take that. Now which option is right for you? Again depends on do you feel it ripping your triceps into shreds? First question. Second question. How are your shoulder joints feeling? How are your elbow joints feeling? Some of these you'll try and you'll be like fuck that. I'm going to be mr. potato. Headsheet'll fall off. Midway through. Fuck don't do that. Find one that works for you. It could be a couple of them and then you have three or two or even four different variations you can program for a few months at a time throughout the year. No wrong answers. Fundamentally the technique set up as the same. It's just where the arc takes you and where you actually hit on various parts of your body. None of these are particularly more dangerous than anyone of them. Some of them cause a bit more shearing for some cause less. Some will involve other muscles like the lats if you touch behind your head and you have back day the next day you might find that you actually have last soreness. Just play around with that stuff. I'm just giving you guys a ton of options and you just dive into that all you can eat with a pay. But do not get the fucking potatoes into the macaroni and cheese. I swear to God we're going to have a fuck problem. Alright folks. Next tip is to make sure you go slow and controlled on the way down. Yes, if you rush the reps you could do more reps and the big skull pressure counter and the sky goes up and God's sitting up there and heaven is like a nurse. Yes, that's pretty good. Pretty good. But you end up with smaller chiceps and a more likely probability of injury which while you're on this mortal earth is bad. So crystal is going to demonstrate the throat skull crusher. This is for sure going to turn into a meme. Yeah, like that's fine, you know, but it would be better if you went a little slower. So we're going to control arguably pause and come up. Slow and control. Pause for that deep stretch and come up. As the Italian American say, beautiful. Alright, next tip is about where to put your hands. And this is one of these patented Dr. Mike and RP answers of, you know, really giving an answer. We just tell you to go fuck yourself and say an electrical ship that sounds like an answer, just kidding, sort of. There is no correct answer about where to put your hands that can be generally applied. Close totally fine. Medium totally fine. Even wide can be fine in some occasions. Where you put your hands and if you use a straight bar or an easy bar is up to you the individual to decide. But we're not just going to leave you with that. Like, bullshit, stock, Instagram, it depends answer. It depends on how three things go. Thing one is how do your elbows feel. Thing two is how do your shoulders feel. Thing three is how do your triceps actually feel. Are they getting a good hit? If you pick a grip that someone on the internet with no degree in biomechanics posts on Instagram said it's optimal, whatever kind of bullshit they're saying nowadays. And you do it and your elbows hurt like shit. Your shoulders feel like they're going to fall out. You don't really feel a whole lot in your triceps. That's the fucking wrong answer. If you try another grip, which people said was bad and don't do it's terrible. And your elbows feel golden brown. Your shoulders feel unbelievable. And your triceps feel like they're being torn to shreds. You have found the for now correct answer. Why do I say for now? Because our bodies change over time or muscles enjoy it adapt to stress over time. They become realist and tie a picture from certain angles over time. So if you realize that for yourself, go this grip and this grip work roughly equally well, you can do a couple of months of this grip until it gets really stale and adds kind of nagging things and triceps aren't getting a huge company more. And getting in on this grip and all of a sudden it feels fresh. Amazing a new. You just go back and forth on them instead of just having one skull crush or exercise to program. You have two. I just multiplied your skull crush or exercises for you. Next, am I going to multiply your wealth? Absolutely. I have a 4x trading account. I do crypto. Scott, what other kind of bullshit is out there? I'm a wealth manager. I'll take over your portfolio. Get you into gold. NFTs. NFTs. I do only I am an NFT. You feel me and you will be one too. If you sign up for my NFT now, of course. That net. Let's get the last tip already. All right, folks. Last tip of the day. The Smith Machine. It exists. Some gentleman named Smith clearly invented it. You can put a bench in here into Smith Machine skull crushers for another excellent variation in addition to your barbell and easy bar work. I would recommend that if there is a slant to your machine, you face your genitals into the direction of the slant. So here the slant goes out. I would lay back this way on a bench so that as I go down, the shit pulls my triceps forward for me. It feels unbelievable. It's a huge stretch. If I was to turn it, it would pull my triceps back. Instead of reducing this elbow angle and getting a huge stretch at the bottom, it kind of pulls everything apart. Feels kind of weird. Turns into a bit more lats. If the other way works better for you, forget what I'm saying and do it, but you probably want to do it in the direction I'm talking about. Combat tip here. Tip number, whatever sub A, here's sub B. Inverted skull crushers are a thing. They're fucking awesome. It's what skull crushers are to bench press. These things are two pushups. So Smith machine is the perfect place to do them. You can also do them in the rack if you just have a rack at home. Find a comfy height. Put your grip wherever you normally do skull crusher grip. Take your comfy foot position away. You'll have to experiment as to where you want to touch and then you bend your elbows in and you'll let's say touch the chin and come up. Keep your elbows in the way down. All the same identical cues in skull crusher. You can do it to your throat. You can do it to your face. Anything you want? You can do it to your face. Where you put your feet is going to depend a ton on your height, bar position, arm length, etc. There's no right answer, but within a few warmups you'll realize where all the good stuff is and here's a really cool thing. When you start warming up, start at a high height. If you're not super duper crazy strong, you're going to have to keep it at a pretty high height. If you are stronger as you warm up, you drop the shit and it mechanically makes this more difficult. If you are a fucking superhero, you put the shit all the way down and if you're like a maze of the android from DC superhero, you can even put your feet on a box and then do these almost at a d-cline, holy fucking shit. It's amazing. Life is amazing. It's life beautiful. Folks, click, click, stop the stupid fucking video. Cool outside, look at trees and a rack with people. Find a random person in the street and just give them a hug and if they don't want it, slip with fucking get that underhook in and give them a hug anyway. Against their will, they'll agree to it eventually. Don't take any of that advice. Folks, any of the advice you hear you saw here on a school crushers. Hopefully it works for you. If it doesn't, feel free to ask me a question in the comments and I'll get one of my botlers to answer. See you guys next time. This is how you do this. Understand?

Increasing your pull-up can be a big deal both repetitions and just being able to do more pull-ups with rate attached. It's a big deal. A lot of folks want to know how to be able to do more pull-ups where to get better at. One are having their pull-up and we have some simple tips. We have eight tips for you today. Eight improvement tips that you can use ASAP to improve your ability to do pull-ups. So first is to standardize your technique. One of the things I suppose I'm not a big fan of is when people are very serious about increasing their pull-up ability and the way they'll set up for pull-ups is they'll jump and grab the pull-up handle and start going. Where you put your hands when you jump is going to vary considerably, making every single set for pull-ups slightly different and that doesn't allow your body to really improve or sort of impose its motor learning effect on the ability to pull-up. If you standardize everything, putting your pinkies and hands in the same place every time, wrapping or unwrapping your thumbs, doing the same range of motion preferably for a deep stretch and all the way up to at least the chin, then you start to do that sort of pull-up over and over and over and over and yes, well, your ability to do pull-ups is in large margin determined by your general pulling strength and how much you weigh, a big part of being able to do pull-ups is just the neural efficiency and the technique of doing pull-ups and your body gets really, really good at stuff you practice all the time. So if you practice the same way or a very similar way over and over and over and over, you standardize your pull-up technique, that can make you really, really good at doing that technique. And since that technique is a pull-up, you'll be getting better pull-ups being able to do more max weight or maximum reps. So that's number one. Next, you want to spend time in the target rep range for doing pull-ups. This is a short-term strategy that works for a few months. Eventually, more advanced stuff will have to be imposed, but we'll do that video next week. But a lot of folks, you know, if they want to improve how many pull-ups they can do for reps, you'll see them doing some interesting stuff as far as repetitions, train in the rep range you want to improve. So if it's maximum number of pull-ups that you want, at least in the short-term, do slightly weighted 5 or 10 pounds on the belt or unweighted or barely assisted pull-ups, stay close to your body weight and do reps sets close to failure to be able to good at, for example, sets of 10. If you're pull-ups around 10 reps max, you want to be able to be good in that rep range and training that rep range all the time is the best. If you train, for example, with a huge amount of weight and do sets of 3 to 6 repetitions, that will make you very strong and pull-up, but if you transition to taking that weight off and seeing how many pull-ups you can get maximum, which is sort of what you were going for all along, this is going to be a weird transitional time where you're doing reps and you're body English is different because the weight doesn't pull you the same, your legs start moving a lot, it's a strange thing. You might sort of get tired and crampy earlier, even though you feel like you have a lot of strength. So train in the rep range you want, at least for a few weeks, then I promise you'll have a better result. If you want the best one or end in the pull-up, basic strength is what a train and that sets of 3 to 6 repetitions with progressively more weight, eventually you do some doubles and singles, take a little easy workout and then try to do the biggest pull-up on around that you can after that. Next, this is a big deal, do pull-ups more often if you really want to get good at pull-ups. Even if not all of the workouts are super hard. For example, you could have a situation where you have three workouts per week in which you train pull-ups. One of the workouts can be relatively heavy with assistance or sorry, the opposite of assistance, weight that you hang off in yourself with some pull-ups after with no weight. Another workout maybe that could be Monday, Wednesday could be you do lots of pull-ups with no weight and then assisted pull-ups. So they're actually lighter than normal, we'll get extra high volume and that's really good. And then Friday you think to yourself, okay, if I do another hard pulling workout with lots of pull-ups, you know, Friday it'll be too much, but hold on a second, you might not have to do that. You might be able to do a workout based mostly in rows or some other parts of your back that don't really overdo the pull-up movement, but you might take either at the end of the workout or at the beginning or somewhere in the middle, probably beginning or end, my preference is for the beginning. It's to do just a couple of sets of two or three repetitions in the pull-ups. Let's say you're able to do 10 to 15 pull-ups. On that Friday a couple of sets of two to three reps in the pull-up can allow you while focusing by the way on a ton of awesome technique. That can allow you to get one more technical practice session. We're sort of treating the pull-up like a power lift. Like you would do a very light deadlift to practice that technique of the deadlift even though you can't do more heavy-deads because it fatigues you too much the same principle applies to pull-ups. A lot of people the way they get good at pull-ups is they just do pull-ups like five days a week or something. That could be a really good way to do it. It could be a bit overkill, it could be some optimal, but what they're getting right at least in that part is they practice practice practice doing the pull-up. What I don't want you guys to do is really really give a shit about how many pull-ups you can do and then do one time a week you have pull-ups in your workout. Even though you can do sets of 10 to 15 no problem. I understand that if you can only do one or two pull-ups maybe that max effort is really only for one day of the week. But if you can do good sets of pull-ups but you're only doing them on one day and you have several, well you have six other days of the week let's say we take a day off five other training days potentially in which you can do pull-ups at least in a few of them. You should do some serious pulling and maybe in one of those when it's too much and it's too much volume to do a lot of really high effort pull-ups maybe you can do a couple of doubles and pull-ups just to be able to get a little bit more time spending ingraining that pull-up technique and then all of a sudden you're just really really really good at pull-ups. Sort of similar how if you watch a person who's really good at calisthenics the way they do pull-ups man it's just looks so beautiful like how every part of your technique seems like you've been doing that for long times. Well I do I do this all the time and that's how you get good at something. I don't why you guys to just basically never do it and then be like oh how come I only train pull-ups once a week and I'm not that good at them. Well kind of answers the question. Next doing the right accessories yes if you can do sets of five especially 10 especially 15 with pull-ups you can kind of just do pull-ups the the jail yard workout you know two sets of pull-ups two sets of try not to get stabbed two sets of joining one of the racial gangs I would say which ones but I'll probably against for that in any case try join one in a race you don't belong to mix it up a little any case so yes it's possible if you can do lots of pull-ups or if your joints are super good at handling that sort of stress that you can just do mostly pull-ups a bit of assistance work and maybe not even and just get really awesome. The reality is different it's unlikely that someone who one of the biggest squat would only squat. This is true for all sports by the way. No sport that I know of trains the sport exclusively by playing the sport and if the sport is pull-ups then why would you only do pull-ups there are intelligent assistance exercises you can do that help you on your way they include assisted pull-ups because you can do higher repetitions and really focus on technique better. Weighted pull-ups which allow you to load the pull-up much heavier and thus there's a kind of two benefits one the overall strain for the pull-up goes up and two there's an insane potential action effect that after you are used to doing pull-ups with weight hanging when you take the weight off even though you're fatigued and of course if you do taking the weight off a few days later when you've healed just doing your own body feels insanely easier and yes there's a performance enhancement but there's also mega confidence enhancement which can be a big big fucking deal right pull downs rose bicep curls hammer curls would having bigger biceps make you better pull-ups of course are the movement right it's part of the move we being able to hammer curl a lot or lots of for sets of 10 be able to get you to pull more yeah of course right so how do you know that from pull downs or sorry how do you know that from your pull-ups alone you're getting enough bicep volume or enough brach volume well you might not be and extra volume through those assistance exercises can really fill in the gaps and make you better so when you're looking at improving your pull-ups think a little bit more big picture and not I'm only going to do pull-ups even if you're favorite calisthenics folks just do pull-ups in the coming years the over over time as the calisthenics community moves up in a scientific literacy which all communities are body-billing like dead last on that one you'll see more folks using some intelligent assistance work and you'll see more folks when they have access to it using a weighted equipment you know because if you can do 10 pull-ups with 25 pounds hanging they ain't shit you can't do with your own body weight it's a really really good stuff next you want to progress on the rap style now this is real advanced for people getting really strong at pull-ups but if you just have the calisthenics set up like creepy Soviet era mostly abandoned Ukrainian playground where I guess maybe all the best calisthenics people in the world come from or some you know like weird Chinese half constructed mega city playground with no one's around you guys know what I'm talking about those YouTube videos right did you park pouring like where the fuck does that guy live like post-apocalyptic you know what I'm saying Kiev for some shit right now like yeah shit like that if you don't have access to any weight equipment or any weight training equipment at all you just have a pull-up bar there is a weight of progress of course you can just add repetitions and do RIR and let's stuff and that's great but if you get really really good at pulling up to your chin at some point you add an a new exercise a new version of pull-ups you may still do some pull-ups to the chin but now fresh early in your workout you may start to do pull-ups to the clavicles if you have an ability to touch the bar to your clavicles and pull-up oh, at least shit you're strong and then the number of pull-ups you could do to where the chin clears start shooting up like crazy because this is so much harder and then if you were able to do comfortable pauses at the top for 10 plus clavicle pull-ups which makes you unbelievable at pull-ups you can start doing sternum pull-ups which are fucking insane and that's when you touch the bar right to your nipple lines so think about your nipples real quick close your eyes think about your own juicy giant nipples just bursting with whatever it is nipples brisk milk that's what it is and you think about touching them shifts to the bar like that now that's crazy and if I see someone who can do 10 sternum pull-ups when they turn around the sun goes black because they're back a so fucking big and regular pull-ups the chin clearing ones oh my god they can do like an infinity so even if you don't have access to a lot of equipment you can do these three variations do the harder ones first here's even a sample workout you could do if you're really fucking strong two to three sets of sternum pull-ups now you are more tired two to three sets of clavicle pull-ups now you're more tired two to three sets of pull-ups we just barely clean the chin go home heal up your lats come back a few days later repeat tack on a rep to every set or rep to every other set something like that you're well underway next number six vary the pull-ups styles yes it is possible to just do overhand pull-ups for forever and experience no joint pain and experience no staleness to the movement like you just feel the movements off for some reason but it's what is more likely is that for multiple months you'll be able to really feel out one or two pull-ups styles but then after you want to make a change and that doesn't mean you have to get away from pull-ups because pull-ups are awesome and the sense there's so many varieties there's wide grip there's narrow grip this close grip there's underhand there's what it is called dildo attachments pair low pull-ups or whatever and kind of everything in between what my recommendation is is pick one or two of the styles train them like crazy for a few months until they feel pretty stale and then replace one or two whichever one feels most stale or both of them stay a replace both and go to another variant so you could do you know a few months of training with overhand wide and underhand pull-ups and then those get stale you can switch to narrow and dildo handle pull-ups and then all of a sudden double dildo those of course come on now so all of a sudden you have awesome variation but you're just still doing pull-ups there's a huge general strength transfer like if you're able to do five more pull-ups then before with this style you're going to be able to do very soon after starting this again more pull-ups with that because almost identical general musculature and so on and so forth so switch the styles go go go until you start to plateau switch them up go go go until you start to plateau and that essentially inject variation into your training for all kind of perpetuity and you get stronger and stronger stronger and stronger and pretty soon instead of the bar being pulled pulling up your body you pull the earth down yeah yeah that's really the goal number seven if you were in a position where you could only do like less than five pull-ups that might put you into a little bit of a predicament because you're not able to summit enough training volume through pull-ups alone to meet your body is total ability to take volume and adapt to it and benefit like if you had an and think about this this works the same way with any other situation it's just pull-ups are curious because they're body weight so here's what I mean if you can do two pull-ups maximum and someone's like okay you can only train pull-ups as a first movement in your workout go we do in singles a double first and then you're too tired to do that again the rest of workouts you do like three singles with two minutes rest and then assistance work but like gee was that's a lot of like one RMS it would be the same as if your max squat was 300 pounds and the only squatting implement you had was a bar that's already in the rack and it's chained in and it's complete solids fears that don't move weighing 275 pounds total so yeah you can train your squat but only with your two RMS okay can I take the weight nope can take the weights off that's the same logic that people who refuse to do assistance work as their core movement apply to the pull-ups I just do pull-ups if someone that you knew had that 275 pounds stapled rack situation but they also had access to a free squat rack with actual weights you can slide on and off a hacksquat a leg press and so on and so forth and you're watching them only do doubles and singles in that crazy rack and trying to get their squat up you feel like you know there's all these other machines here and you can do sets of five to ten and do multiple sets instead of just a few and you can sum eight tons of volume great effort great stimulus growth tons more muscle get way stronger come back to that pre-reloaded rack and hit sets of five just the same thing happens with pull-ups so if you can do less than five or so pull-ups I encourage you to do some you know maybe for some mesocycles that you train you have workouts in which you just do you know mostly pull-ups to begin with a few sets of tripals or something and then you do some other work that's totally cool but at other times of the week what you could do is have a workout that begins with assisted pull-ups and over time you decrease the weight of the assistant it'll work out that begins with pull-downs workouts even that begin with rows because rows generally grow your back really well some of your workouts might even begin with bicep curls or hammer curls to get that part of you strong because it's going to contribute to your ability to pull-ups generally speaking you put on the best size in sets of five to 30 reps and if you can't do that in pull-ups stop just doing pull-ups for size and do the exercise you can scale down to your strength and do those and I promise promise promise that if you used a lap hold on a hundred pounds and you could only do pull-ups for two reps as you work up and eventually you can lap hold on same rep number for 130 or 140 or 150 pounds you will be able to do more pull-ups a lot more pull-ups versus just taking consistent one or M attempts not a good idea. What do you get when PhD sports scientists collaborate with pro-body builders? The most effective muscle growth training I've ever made. Get yours now. Lastly this is a huge, huge tip. It's kind of weird it's out of left field but I promise it makes sense. Lose weight. I mean you specifically. That's right you watching. No no no not the person behind you not your cat. Not the adult films playing in the television screen but who watches adult films on a TV screen? I wonder. In any case here's the thing. It all depends on how much you want to be able to do more pull-ups. If you weigh 180 pounds and you're carrying some excess fat no big deal everyone you know we all love you just the same but if you're in your heart to be able to do more pull-ups and you say look I want to do what it takes to do more pull-ups. Sort of like killing somebody. Maybe even naming them is okay. Losing five or ten or even 20 pounds intelligently over the course of multiple weeks and months with maintenance phases and all that other stuff we talk about on the channel can take your ability to pull-ups and skyrocket the living. Fuck out of it. There's the people who are the best at doing pull-ups in this world are all very tiny people because their strength to bodyweight ratio can be quite insane. Even people who in world strongest man most of them can't even do but ten pull-ups or so because they weigh three or four hundred pounds. Now that's a bit of an extreme case but I promise even on the margins. There's a big difference. When I go I just recently went from weighing about 250 pounds and now I'm in the middle of a mini cut phase. I'm not weighing more like 240. My ability to pull-ups is no to believe better. Notably better. Went from just doing pull-ups my bodyweight to attaching 10 pounds and hitting PRs and all that crazy stuff. So if it really matters to you to do more pull-ups maybe it's for a military physical fitness test coming up or something like that, losing weight while at the same time training your pull-ups in your back hard can allow you to improve your pull-up ability because it's kind of like taking that earlier example of the pre-loaded squats fears or something. 200 and 75 pounds and sowing off part of it. Now it weighs 250. And you'll be able to squat it more even if you're the same strength. But as you training it a little bit stronger over time. If during that time you lose a little bit of weight over time, that separates those two lines quite clearly in a few weeks and definitely in a few months to where you're just being able to do way more pull-ups. Was that good you guys? Is that a good enough video for you? If it wasn't, come back next week and we've got advanced pull-up periodization or I never made that lecture and I'll either hastily make it and deliver it terribly or you'll just never hear this because Scott the video guy will edit it out or even funny if he just leaves it in the next week you're checking and I just disappointed you. Like I did my own son. Did you guys know I have a son? Yeah, it's earlier marriage and I just wasn't proud of it and while I love him in theory I just I don't ever want to see his face and I hope he doesn't see this. That would be fucked up to here. I'll see you guys next time. Son.

Hey folks, I'm Dr. Mike and this is the Targeting the Muscle Series. Today we are going to be working on push-ups, works, riceps. Let's do it. If you have ever done push-ups for triceps, you might be familiar with the diamond push-up, which is when you do push-ups from this position right here. The problem is, as you get to the bottom, yes, it's a lot of triceps involvement, but almost never are you going to be able to get the full stretch. Look at my hand here. If we move slightly out from the diamond to just outside of our chest, what ends up happening is, here is the triceps stretch here. If we move here, look at how much more stretch we get. So my humble recommendation is to point your fingers forward and make sure that you are just outside of shoulder width so when we actually do the push-ups, it looks something like this. Next tip is a really potentially challenging one, but if you really want to work to triceps with push-ups, this is how to do it. Most people will get great tricep work if they leverage their body's forward a little bit. Let the triceps do some of the load and let the chest and shoulders pick up the slack. So this is a fine way to do the push-up. Just like that. Notice where my chest lands in front of my hands, totally fine. If you're a bigger and stronger, you can already do a ton of reps, you can make the push-ups way more triceps-limitable, less chest and shoulder, by when you come down, still touch your chest to the ground, but sink back. This turns the movement more of a skull crusher J.M. press on the ground. So instead, watch this of coming forward like that. Totally fine. You come down and back a little. Oh fuck, my triceps! That's crazy. Come push your chest behind your hands. It loads your triceps like wild. Give it a shot. Next tip is a two-four. Two-four-one. Tip number one is to make sure to have your butt up. If you have your butt low, you end up touching the ground with your genders. No good limits to the range of motion. Have your butt up. Just a little bit above your body being completely straight. And the second tip is to always make sure to descend to where your chest and only chest touches the ground. Bought up. We descend. Chest touches and we come back up. No tummy touching. No dick touching. Not of that nonsense. Alright. We've got everything worked out pretty well. Two extra tips to get to feel your triceps a little more. Combine together. One is to make sure that on the descent, your elbows stay close to your body and don't flare out. It's okay if they flare out on the descent, but on the descent you want to turn your elbows in so that they stay flush as much as possible. Loading the triceps the most. And while you're doing this, go slower on the eccentric to really make sure you're doing this. And the slowest centric really really fucks them off the top. And that's a technical term in science. So we could do pushups faster and flared. So we do them like this. Okay fine. It feels okay. But we should do the pushups elbows in. That slow fuck. That's even hard to demonstrate. Holy triceps. Now we're really winning. And by winning, I mean having big triceps. What surely is winning, isn't it? Folks, thanks for tuning in. Like, subscribe, upvote downvote. See you next time.

Folks, welcome to Iceland. We're in Reykjavik. This is one of the best gyms in Reykjavik, especially for bodybuilding. So we're here to check it out. We're gonna do a workout. It's gonna be mostly legs, a little bit of upper body stuff. And maybe we'll meet some nice Icelandic people and maybe they won't take their Viking sword out and cut my head off with no guarantees. Let's do it. We're in Reykjavik. We're in Reykjavik. We're in Reykjavik. We're in Reykjavik. It's a damn good gym. A couple of things. One is we got CrossFit setup here. For all your CrossFit needs, the other side has tons of deadlifting platforms and weightlifting platforms, which is awesome. This whole area here has lots of just kind of plate loaded machines. Really, really good stuff. The cable station over here, but wait, there's more. Come with me. Hi. Hi. Hi. How long do you stay in Iceland? Until tomorrow morning. No, the day after. Sorry, Monday morning. The next month will have a professional week here, so I want to keep fighting. Thank you so much. I have really bad fashion, so it doesn't matter. These life fitness machines I have never seen before. There's this trippy row machine and here's the crazy park. These are knob operated loadings. So you pull the load out and then it can actually take the load off. Well, look at that perfect symmetry to every other. No rules violated. How does everyone like the autism now? Wild, never seen this. And there's not just one. There's like three or four of these machines. So if you're ever at this gym, show up, try these. Someone's looking really cool. I haven't had a chance to fuss with them, but yeah, it's dope. Very, very unique. The calf stuff is kind of strange, but my left calf is bigger than my right calf. By like a good margin. And so I'm for the next little bit here a few months. I'm going to be training my right calf almost exclusively. My left calf just kind of formability and base of strength. And so what that's going to allow me to do is probably equalize them a little bit. And then they look cooler and looking cool is the only reason I train nowadays. So maybe I'll finally be one of the cool kids. I was going to sit at the cool kids table when I was in seventh grade. They noticed that age of magical calves. That was last time I've rest. But now I'm back. So I don't think this is the technical name for this, but I call this style Nordic modern. And it's in the Nordics just do everything better. And so the core just would accent it brown. We have brown man out there too, just to make a point. You're really doing my shit. One calf at a time. The decor here is absolutely stellar. I feel like I'm in like a test kitchen for IKEA. Ever or I bet. Thank you. Of course. Thank you guys. Yeah sure. Where do you want it? See, drawing a cup. Would you like a cup? Yeah, sure. A big one. Yeah. How? Yeah. That's huge. That's what she's never said. Small balls. Stay right balls. Yeah, exactly. Thank you. I love it now. I'm not going to say my most. Are you kidding? I've never seen a, so I think it looks like that. Thank you so much. Huge pleasure. Don't spend all your, someone face. I don't know what that means. So I'm doing the traveling. And so I have my typical at home workout that I do. I'm actually subbing in curls. Different kind of was dumbbell. Now this is a cable curl. So with my RPI picture fee app, it's super quick. I just sub it in. I say that it's not not permanent or whatever. And just one session super easy to go on the fly. It's still get to keep track of all my stuff. Except I don't get caught up in having to like find exactly the exercises that I need. There's like different gyms have different situations going on. You won't always find the same machines. Right, purge for you. Just swab it in exercise next week. One of them is to ask you about it. It'll be the same exercise you have at home. So works for me. Mmm. Marcus and I trained together. He's going to do a set. I do a set right after. No rest. Good shit, Marcus. We keep doing that. And every time we do it, we lower the weight by one. We lower it by five total. So it's kind of a partner drop set. Really fun. Get close to failure. Last of all, I'm a little bit super great time in your traveling. Doing some fun shit like that is awesome. There we go. Mmm. Mmm. Mmm. Oh my god. Yeah, that was like 80 reps or something. Not bad. It's revealed time fellas. Physique reveal. That's right, Mr. Nick Shaw's physique. Okay. Can we get Scott the video guy in here? Thank you so much. Scott, that's fine. Oh, yeah. No, no, no, just do it right now. Yeah. Okay. So, Marcus and I just have a little fun here. We're going to go back and forth. He's going to stand here. I'm going to stand here. And do kind of as many risk courses we can. As soon as I put my shit down, he does as many risk courses. He can't just pile up. These people have very strong, strong hands and big hands and big fingers. And I was going to say some race shit. Marcus and I joke in a way that would not fly on YouTube. Every single race gets it. I remember that. This guy's race is teen out. All right, let's get to it. I kind of should you get in your pockets. My man. You know what I'm saying? Iceland's an island, but so is his pan yolo. Are you filming? Left. Left. Put the cado ni tan. Top. Top. This arms are massive. No. Bullshit. What the fuck? What the fuck? Oh, no. What the fuck? What the fuck? Stiffies next? Raps? Stiffies? Staring the scotty of you guys eyes? Then more stiffies. Attention all cock suckers in other pieces of shit. If you don't congratulate your weight, Thor and Odin will come down from heaven and can kill you themselves. And it's more than you deserve because arguably you could go to Valhalla because technically it's a battle. Anyway, I think I've talked myself into a whole as usual. Goodbye. Stiffies. Stiffies. Folks, it has come time to do Stifflega deadlofts. I haven't done too much. Basically, posterior chain work both of the whole posterior chain at the same time. Like stifflega deadlofts or anything could more as I haven't done too much of that yet. So I'm really really using into it after my surgery. Everything there structurally should be fine. It's just like, do a better safe than sorry. So three sets of 10 hamstrings are real sensitive. I haven't been doing this here. I'm going to say you're super high volume. Remember I took a year off of legs. Basically, just other than mobility work just before this. So very, very minimal requirement for stimulus. My hamstrings did not get this big doing 225 or 3 by 10, but I'll be working up over time slowly. And with Stifflega deadlofts, it's a really push and knees back and really archer back. You can actually get a lot more unusual out of a smaller weight. So I'm going to be trying to do that today. I want warm up set of eight reps or so with just a plate. And then two plates throw the clips on, get to bottom. What up? Who asked the photo? Get the f*** out of here. Let's do it. My dad's a really big fan of you. Oh, people tell him I said hello. Oh, can you just the more is not the right thing? The same as you. That's just the same thing. Markos have a good set. I'll be right back. We gotta go see why the Icelanders are swimming. And Iceland, this is peak summer. It's 55 degrees outside. People are swimming. In a swimming pool behind me and sliding around a water slides. Some different up here in the water man. The Nordic people's, they're just stronger. And they're just like, you know, they're just like, you know, I wouldn't swim if it was 10 degrees warmer. This should as wild as Icelanders. You're it. I'm leaning so that my back can relax for a second. Right. None of this is psychological. It's actually better if just do this. Yeah. Yeah. I'm leaning so that my back can relax for a second. Right. None of this is psychological. It's actually better if just do this. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm very good. Wow. Mark us come down. That's, uh, max the editor boy. Oh, isn't it? That's max the editor boy. He's a big boy in real life. He's like, that doesn't look like a boy. And then that's, that's got the video guy. Like, yeah. All right, viewers. So I'm going to do works out here on the belt squat. I've never used a hammer strength belt squat. It's actually quite nice. Remember me from the gay boss never. No, it's a shit. I was on a lot of drugs man. I just remember your taste. It's really good. What? Well, it depends. Are you giving me a low job or am I giving you a low job? Uh, you start. Is that your first time, huh? Let's start with a picture. And then we'll see you down there. Maybe 15 to 20 reps here with a few breaks. And then whatever I get on that set, I'm going to do it again on the next set with a few more breaks. Two sets. As soon as I'm done with both of those, I'm probably going to go and walk like 20 steps lunge. Uh, as soon as you're done with any kind of really quad heavy movement and it really Your father's doing some lunges automatically extends the amount of time that you spend close to the proximity of failure within failure proximity. And so it actually multiplies the hypertrophic benefits substantially. In a way that doesn't reduce result in a lot of systemic fatigue because the total volume isn't even that high. Um, it's awesome. So a free bonus. But for me, my um, uh, adductors got real sore from lunges last time and they're not so healed healed. So I can't do something super or more heavy more intense. So for me, this is also a really good kind of, um, uh, sort of de-load for hamstrings or some good good got for glutes and for adductors just because it kind of moves the shit through and stretches it out. So I'm gonna get this set going and I'm gonna see what happens. Holy shit. 20. Another set of 20 after this little break and then a set of 20 bodyweight lunges. That's the workout. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, guys. I alarm a mirror. Oh boy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. 20. You guys all noticed how I stay on top side of my toes for the back leg. I'm sorry, I don't push through it too much. Keep the tension on the front leg most part. Making it more glued down in it, which is what I want other lunges right now. But since my quadzel pre-cooked kind of 50 50. So, if you guys are in Iceland, you know, an edict, give a world-class gym. As a few locations from what I've seen, a phenomenal place to train. And from 50's kid. Well, she was also pretty, pretty ladies and young men to look at. I mean, hang out with, I don't stare at people. Oh boy. Anyway, 50's kid loves it here, so it was maxed at a boy's same person. Love you. See you guys next time.

Some people do this thing, like, how do I go on a sleep at 8pm every night or 9pm? I'm not going to sleep at 9pm, I'm not going to sleep at 9pm. That's when all the good shows are on. That's when Netflix is like, hey, you should probably watch this. You probably will. But there's a very big difference between the ones every two weeks pulling an all nighter or going about it to AM and doing that like three days a week. That second one is going to mess with your gains because your sleep will be highly subopted. So having a ritual of where you brush your teeth, then you take a hot shower, then you curl up with a good book. That sequence, even if it's small, can make a big difference. Folks, why did I yell that? Hello, RP Strength says I have to say I'm Dr. Mike for RP Strength. Now that my legal stuff has taken care of, let's talk about how sleep hygiene works, how you can get better sleep and some examples of how I get my good sleep with my phenomenal life that I love so much. Sleep is a big deal for games. Study after study show that if you don't get enough sleep, your ability to grow muscle suffers tremendously. Your ability to gain fat is boosted tremendously. And even if you're a caloric deficit, your ability to lose fat is severely hampered. Which means that if you're on a weight loss journey in a caloric deficit, if you don't get enough sleep, you might be losing muscle and not fat. I'm not kidding. It's a real thing. So let's talk about how to get good sleep. I have 11 tips for you today. This really is kind of a really big deep dive. So don't listen to this before you go to sleep, otherwise it's going to be boring and you're going to not off. But if you are still here with us, put in your headphones, look around you, the world is beautiful. Let's talk about sleep. Number one is to have a consistent week, week, week, week, week, week. Number one is to have a consistent sleep wake schedule. Going to bed at roughly the same time every day, roughly I'll get to that in a second. What that means, even weekends can strengthen your circadian rhythms, improving your sleep quality majorly. If you go to bed and wake up at roughly the same time on most days, the reinforces your biological clock, which is an internal thing that happens in your brain, it makes sure you're secreting melatonin, which puts you to sleep at the right time, and it makes sure you're secreting cortisol in the morning to wake you up at the right time and not secreting about your cortisol and your supposed to go in a bed or melatonin when you're supposed to be waking up. If you can get into that habit, even over a few days, it really does improve sleep quality. And the real-world tip here is to pick realistic times. Some people do this thing, like, how do I go on a sleep at 8pm every night or 9pm? No, you're not, my f***er. That's what all the good shows are on. That's when Netflix is like, hey, you should probably watch this and you probably will. So instead, pick some realistic times for many people that's between 10, 11 and midnight or clock, get your 7 and a half to 8 and a half hours, wake up at that time, roughly every night. Now, plus or minus 30 minutes, even plus or minus an hour is not a big deal, but the less variation you can have the better. Is it okay to party every now and again, and get crazy on the weekends and not sleep? Yes, you're living life. It's no big deal. But there's a very big difference between once every two weeks pulling an all night or going a bed at 2am and doing that like three days a week. That second one is going to mess with your gains because your sleep will be highly subopt. Me personally, I'm usually in bed by about 11pm. Sometimes this late is midnight. On the weekends, I tend to be high in edible marijuana, which I mostly take earlier on the day, so I'm not super high by the time I go to bed, but weed makes me very, very tired and groggy, so I'll often go to bed even earlier on weekends, which sounds like I'm not having any fun in my life. Yes, this is a cry for help. Now and again, again, you can go crazy, have an all night or it just can't be all the time. Number two tip. Morning, sunlight exposure. Instead of the sun, it's better to look at a poster of Andrew Huberman. That way you can get direct sunlight through your eyelids. You can even look at it with your eyes closed. Still works. On a serious note, as is actually true, 10 to 20 minutes of sunlight exposure to your eyes. In the morning, can regulate circadian timing. It makes you more alert in the day. And actually, preps you for being sleepy or night, even if the sunlight was delivered in the morning. That's how that works. So it's really, really awesome. The sunlight activates retinal cells, synchronizing your biological clock, suppressing melatonin and stimulating serotonin actually to get your morning vibes to be really, really awesome. You can do this in a couple of different ways. You can take a morning walk. You can enjoy your coffee, sitting on your porch or something and taking in the daylight hours. You probably don't want sunglasses. You want real actual unfiltered light to hit your retinas. You don't have to stare directly into the sun and cloudy days are totally fine. Just going outside and looking around it out door things and at the sky right now and again, for 10 to 20 minutes is going to do what it's supposed to do. Please do not stare directly at the sun. Me. I'm Peter and I'm really bad about this. I should generally wake up and I walk for 45 seconds to the gym or I wake up and I go downstairs to the basement where there is tensionally no light and I go to work. It's not great. We do keep my wife and I or one of our bedroom windows is permanently unblinded so that morning sunlight gets in which does help with waking and in the springtime and in the summer they really fall. When we get into the wintertime, it's Michigan. There isn't no sun so that's a bit wacky. I personally like it when the morning is their dark because I'm Russian and for some reason that reminds me of home but I would recommend this so this one I get a big hit on. I actually don't do nearly as well as I should and I'm considering getting better about it. So just to show you that even though I am perfect in every measurable way and these bullshit ways they don't really count because I'm awesome and flawless, I even I air like you people do but less often because I'm better. But on a series no for real for real yeah like just try to do your best man. I'm all supposed to be living my best life here with these recommendations. I don't get them all. No big deal. Just try to do your best. Point number three is to do a digital detox. It's where you get an IV and digits go in. No, there's a different thing. Screen limitations before bet. No, I know what you're thinking and ever going to do it or hold on there's a hack. Reducing screen time. 30 to 60 minutes before trying to go to sleep. Provence blue light interference blue light is the part of light spectrum that tells your private ass like hey, primate wake up. It's morning time. It's daytime. It's daytime. In our evolved ancestry, we really never experienced any kind of blue light hitting our eyes after the sun went down. Where the fuck would you find blue light in the natural world after the sun goes down? Exactly. Basically nowhere. So it's basically any time you get blue light your brains like oh shit if they time let's go. And so if you're taking in normal blue light from devices from your TV from your cell phone etc. Then your brains like I know it's 11 pm. What is it really? Because I'm getting sunlight maybe let's go. And so that's not ideal remotely. What can we do about this? First of all, you can just stop 30 or 60 minutes before bed with devices. You can read a book, shit like that. A real book. I know it's kind of weird. However, almost every digital device now offers a night mode which I turn on and every digital device that offers it so the device actually doesn't shoot blue light anymore. It just does the warmer tones which is really two birds with one stone. I'll have more to say in a little bit about how to manage what kind of content you're consuming at night because that's still matters. But it turns that you can have your screens up as long as they are blue light filtered. You can also put on the blue light glasses. If you want those are kind of funky, most people don't like to wear them around. If you want to wear it, I think that's totally great. But a lot of times your phone will just have the filter on it to begin with. So it's really really awesome. And then a lot of people will have their devices really close to them when they sleep and sometimes wake up in the middle of the night when they can't sleep and start scrolling on them. And if they're blocked off, that's okay. But if they're not blue light blocked, then it's a bad idea. Sometimes if you're really tempted to go to devices and to piss away your time in the middle of the night, just put the charger and the device out of reach from your bed. You're not going to get out of bed. You lazy asshole. You're just going to sit in bed and then you're going to go and you'll fall back asleep. So something to do that. Now, the way I do this in my own life is pretty much almost every night. The last thing I do is talk to chatchipet is my best friend. And I use the 4.5 model for deep wisdom. This is just smartest thing in the world. And my screen auto shifts at 8pm tonight mode. So it doesn't bother me. And I'll tell you more about why talking to chatchipet in the way I do it is a little bit better than some other ways that I've used to engage individual devices. But that's another tip. All right. Next up, number four is strategic substance what you want to do is you want to take in no caffeine with an eight hours of your bed time and no alcohol within two to four hours of your bed time because both can degrade sleep quality. Caffeine blocks a denocene receptors, which are sleep inducing receptors. Caffeine basically tricks your brain into thinking you're not tired when you actually are not great. Alcohol disrupts deep sleep and REM sleep, which is also not ideal. You can get to sleep faster with alcohol but the high quality sleep is going to be missing for many, many hours of the night. So real world wise, if this is one of these things where science kind of gives you a big middle finger, people drink coffee and drink soda all day long. The real recommendation is to stop a forenoon. And then how about spursa catering coffee in the morning? Maybe drink coffee at noon and that's good enough. And that's not bad. You get two pumps for the day, not terrible. Obviously keeping alcohol minimal because it's just toxic and not good for almost any part of you is a good start. But if you're going to have it have it early in the evening, hydrate well after work, so it doesn't disrupt your sleep quality, it doesn't make you dehydrated. And if you know, consider replacing your evening alcohol with, I don't know, just staring at the wall or some shit like that. You know, Chetchipy T says we're placing with herbal tea or sparkling water but I mean Scott does that really replace alcohol in any meaningful way? Like, not just about drinkin something. It's about me having the demon shut up for at least five minutes of my god damn day. Oh, the wife of that me that my throat. For me personally, I was never used alcohol or caffeine. Alcohol makes me dumber and very sick and it no longer reduces my social anxiety, which is down to zero to begin with at this point in my life. So there's no point for me to have alcohol. My caffeine intake is zero because it just gives me anxiety. It's not worth it for me. And it sure shit keeps me up at night. So that. So for me, I just duck both of these by just never engaging in. I'm not saying that you should do that though. I'm a weird person, very weird things in my life. And don't just copy me. I'm not some kind of health guru. Sure, shit, not in practice. But yeah, just for me, I just duck it all all together. However, I do use edible marijuana on the weekends. And that doesn't interfere with sleep quality. And so I use it early. I typically take it somewhere between 12 p.m. and 2 p.m. so that I can be hiled day and then by the night time I'm feeling crisper. And then I wake up feeling snappy. Then next day. Usually I'm still pretty groggy. But after a few hours that morning, I feel right is ring. All right. Number five, this is a big one. This is a huge one. Optimizing your bedroom temperature and ventilation. Massive. A cool bedroom enhances sleep efficiency in depth because in our evolved environment, notice when the sun goes down, it always gets colder. And so that cold kind of coming in, tells your body like, hey, like, you're a sleep time now. It's a big deal. And your body temperature tends to drop when sleep onset hits. And this kind of can drop it for you. So it's a double limmer. The other thing is ventilation is multiple studies have found that with a really good air flow in your room, your sleep quality is better. If you have stagnant air, your sleep quality is worse, which is not a good thing whatsoever. And you can do things about this. You can do things about this. So the recommended bedroom temperature, some of you are going to be like, what the is 60 to 67 degrees Fahrenheit, 15 to 19 degrees Celsius. That is cold. The rule I use for myself is if it's too cold to sleep without a blanket. But in my blanket, I feel cozy and warm. It's going to lead to the best sleep. And typically that's how you can gauge it. So if you're one of these very lean people, that's a very hot climate adapted genetically, if you're for example of African ancestry, it is unlikely that you're going to be interested in sleeping in 60 degrees. You're going to be like, why people are crazy and you're going to be completely right. So maybe for you it's 72 degrees, just make sure that you feel warm and cozy in a blanket. But if you were to take the blanket off or put it halfway up your body, you'd be like, that's I'm cold. That's how you get your best sleep. If you are sweating, you have your blanket off of your slaying that like this, you are not going to get your best sleep 99 times out of 100. If you need to go lower than 60 degrees because you're Norwegian or some crazy shit in your cover with hair, totally fine. Again, warm on a blanket and not cold under the blanket, cold without the blanket is a very, very good way to do things. You can adjust the thermostat. If you have like Google home, Google, Nest, whatever the hell it is, then you can have the thermostat start cooling down in the evening and then start warming up in the morning, which is also really nice because as it warms up in the morning, it actually wakes you up. So if you say I typically wake up about 8 a.m. and about 7, I want the thermostat to start driving the heat up. By the time it's like 745, you're kind of like awake and you're like, I'm a little hot and remember every time you get a little hot, you're like actually start waking up, which is why it's really bad to go to sleep on your hot, but really good to wake up a little bit warmer. Experiment with breathable bedding materials, cotton, things like that, and cooling pads or cooling beds are cool. If you need that sort of thing, if air conditioning isn't good enough, and definitely fans for warmer climates, but I also use a fan by my bed for that ventilation effect, making sure that the air flow is always going is a really, really good thing. In our household right now, we switch to 60 to 63 degrees at night, our Google home situation will make that happen for us. And my poor Southeast Asian wife is typically dying at such temperatures because she's like an icicle, however, that's part of the master plan because you see and what may come as a surprise to you, I sleep in the same bed with my wife and where is she going to find warmth, but in my arms? You want warmth? Let's start with cock. No, okay, just warmth. Hey, shut up, Scott, I'm trying to get laid out here. Are you going to are you going to touch me? Maybe. Oh, hey, I'm getting lucky. Speaking of luck, number six, bedroom as a sleep sink, jewelry. You want lilies, Buddhist monks, the monkeys that live at temples, little pools, she'll like that. All right, number seven, wait, no, how but here's the thing with a sleep sanctuary. Ideally, you want your bedroom to be a place in which you just do two things. Sleep and sleep with people, which is to say sex. Scott, did you know that when I was a young child, I heard about the Michael Jackson controversy and I asked my parents about it and I basically was confused why it was controversial for people to take lots of money to sleep with Michael Jackson, but in my young brain, I just thought you slept next to him in the bed. That is what happened. Right, Scott is a Michael Jackson allegations denier, everyone. Not convicted in court of law. We're not getting into this right now, which is what all the children said to Mike, but he never listened. Hey, in any case, you want your bedroom to be for fun times and for sleep times and for probably nothing else. The mechanism here is psychological conditioning. If you start associating your bedroom with work, with stress, with texting, then when you go to bed, your brains are okay. I'm in this position, what I got. I can have sex with whoever's next to me. I can text and scroll and look at YouTube videos. I guess I can sleep, but that's just one of the things on the list. You want that list to be very short. Sexy time or sleep time. What you have nice is that two birds with one stone. Real world tips here. Laptops, phones, work materials, get them out of bed. Clutter has been shown to decrease sleep quality. Get your clean bed going. Declutter your room, declutter your bed. Your room should be a very simple, a clean, minute, very minimalist place with a very comfortable bed. That's going to help you sleep a ton. And if you're going to have to engage in activities, get out of bed and go to those activities and come back. That's going to keep the bed the sanctuary psychologically. It's a big deal. It really does help. My wife, Chris Lennie, we used to watch TV in our bedroom. We have a couch in a TV in our bedroom, aside from our also bed. But recently, we got upgraded to a mega TV that's in our living room. So we watch TV in a living room and then we migrate to bed for sleep and that's actually a better way to do it. It's tough to pull this off if you live in a dorm room or you live in a room that you're renting with friends and it's kind of your little work desk in your bedroom. There, your best bed is to try to go to library to study or do work and then just separate that from when anytime you're in your bedroom or chilling or you're just going to sleep. And potentially you can set up like a little couch TV area, little desk work area, and then a bedroom area bedroom, a bed area so that like just don't get in bed to do anything other than sleep or copulating with people. That's it. And if you can do that, you can even manage the room situation. But when you're on the couch, you're watching TV or you're scrolling on your phone or playing video games. When you're at your desk, you're doing work. When you're in your bed, it's only for sleep. That still helps. 7. Bleep. Pre sleep and flying down rituals are a big deal. Scott, we'll have video be out already by then. The wind down. We have a video about how to wind down. I share all my tips. So the TLDR here is a consistent relaxing, pre sleep ritual signals the brain to transition into sleep mode. And this is a habituation thing. You get used to doing relaxing things before you go to bed. All of a sudden when you start doing those relaxing things, your body's like, oh yeah, relaxing stuff. And it really quickly relaxes you. It doesn't happen right away. But a few days a few weeks later, it's going to be an awesome habit. What kind of things help in this regard? From taking you from fight or flight, pair of sympathetic to, sir, good god, fight or flight sympathetic to pair a sympathetic rest and digest mode. A warm bath or hot shower or really well. You can do some meditation. You can do some stretching. You could even do journaling if people do that sort of thing. Probably a good idea to keep that ritual to between 15 and 30 minutes in length. And the same sequence each night. So having a ritual of where you brush your teeth, then you take a hot shower, then you curl up with a good book or whatever. And then you go to bed at whatever 1030, that sequence, even if it's small, can make a big difference. It's a good idea to dim the lights during that time. And maybe have gentle music or white noise to just really woo saw your body. And I'll tell you my average sleep routine. It is not recommended. It's just what I do. My goal on the channel and in real life is to keep it 100 with you guys all the time. So what I do is typically I'll put on my VR goggles to enjoy an adult film by myself and the bathroom. I'm not joking. And even though Scott's laughing at me, my friend, I will shower because well, cake, cement is disgusting to go to sleep with. I will have a genius shot in mixed in with a soda, which gives me 23 grams of high quality proteins, your grams of carbs, your grams of fat, the soda is diet and caffeine free. So it's just a fun drink to have. And it's usually not a lot of soda because that'll just pee a lot. So it's a little bit of a drink. Typically when I do this, I will watch something on YouTube. Like I watch documentaries. I wife usually passed out by that point or watch people play military video games. You know, nerdy shit like that. And then I will have my nighttime supplements. I will shoot growth hormone. Yes, it's really thing. And I will cut it up in bed and talk to chat GPT for a little bit. And then be like, I can't do this anymore. I'm falling asleep. And then I put my phone plug it in. Turn, fall asleep, clockwork baby. Almost every night. It's a great life. If you thought that making a lot of money and becoming a pseudo world famous in the fitness industry was going to make your life amazing, this is what you have to look forward to. Number eight, complete darkness and minimal noise is huge. Now I personally don't do complete darkness because I'm afraid of the dark. Scott, are you afraid of the dark? I mean, that was my favorite show back in the day. Yeah, it was good show. I was too scared. I didn't watch it. But I heard it was good. Are you actually afraid of the dark? Like not at all. Damn, do you real make the dark? Shut up. I was born in the dark. Okay, Batman. So, excess light, especially a lot of excess light can tell your brain. Hey, it's still daytime. Remember, in nature, excess light isn't incredibly rare. So when it's super dark, your brains like, hey, we're going to sleep. Disruptive sounds can reduce your ability to go to sleep. If you have a regular sounds like your neighbors are arguing downstairs while you're trying to fall asleep, that's an unstarter. If you have some regular sounds come up through the night that wake you up, disrupt sleep quality asleep continuity. That's really bad. The real world tips here are to invest potentially in blackout curtains or blackout curtains are go to put them shit over your window and you're like, holy crap, dude, it could be whatever time out there, it's nighttime in my room, which is really awesome, especially helps with folks living in big busy cities because you put blackout curtains up, doesn't matter. You can try an eye mask. If the blackout curtain is not an option, it takes a little bit of time to get used to sleeping, but the comfortable eye masks are really awesome. A lot of times, I'll travel on airplanes. I'll put the eye mask on and go to sleep. It's really great. You could use earplugs potentially, which again, takes them get used to and it's not super comfortable often. Sometimes they work out. If there's a lot of noise, you can also have a white noise machine. It's a big deal that can help white noise helps a lot of people because if you have total silence, sometimes your brain starts like listening for like any amount of noise because fighter flights like hey, that you better and listen because predators can be sneaking up. But if you have white noise, it gives your brain that, hey, there's noise, but you can't hear anything and there's no statistical, it's random noise. It's nothing to get out of that noise, it's really pay attention to and after a while you're brain is like this and it just goes to sleep. If you have distracting LEDs and electronics, like my wife has one of those automatic toothbrush things, the power truth brush, Scott, no joke that thinks it's in our bathroom, but we have to close our bathroom door because if the bathroom door is open, the shit like every 10 seconds, pulse is white light, it fills up the room. Yeah, I have one of those as well. What the hell? Why would you do that? Why? Why do you need to tell me my brushes here every 10 seconds? Like, is it the vibes of its recharging? Like, I know, I know I get it, it's recharging. Holy shit people. It's great, it's a great product, but like the shit's wild. So you can put table over stuff like that, you can close doors, just make sure you're not getting a crap load of light for no reason. Here's what I do. I have a huge act here. You go to YouTube, get your premium account so that you can close your phone and still have your phone charged and play in the music. You go to your search and you go rain sounds for sleeping. Amazing. You can do thunder. You can do no thunder. Gentle rain for sleeping. Amazing. But, and I use this as a special treat every now and again, go to YouTube right now and type in eight hours of star scapes by nature relaxation films. This is something you can actually watch on your TV before you go to bed. It is some of the most gorgeous video I've ever seen in my life. It's enhanced views of the Milky Way, time lapsed from various beautiful nature places. And it's nice and dark, but light enough to see. And if you put it up on your phone and you hit your phone screen off so you can still hear it, it is some of the most beautiful music I have ever heard. I'm not kidding. It's like the best eight hours of music I've ever listened to in my entire life. I purposefully don't use it too often because I want to remain special. And it is eight hours of star scapes. They have another one that's five hours star scapes. It's amazing. If you have any recommendations, throw them in the comments because that kind of shit is awesome. All right. Next, regular exercise is a really good for promoting sleep. Hard exercise during the day is awesome for sleep because it increases a data scene concentration of the brain which is one of the significant molecules that tells you your tired and makes you go to sleep. Makes sense. You do a lot of hard exercise. Like I can take an app and that really does help. A lot of people that struggle with insomnia are just insufficiently physically active. They do kind of dust jobs, getting them out there, beaten that ass, doing a cross for a workout, really, really helps. But the critical timing here is that hard training cannot occur any closer than about three hours before bedtime. And I ideally more like six. So morning and after afternoon workouts are really, really great. You can do a little bit of light activity which is totally fine. Things like stretching or yoga or a little bit of a walk, that can be done up to an hour before bed. But stay the hell away from super hard activity close to bed and do plenty of it way, way, way before bed. For my own personal stuff, my wife and I will take an evening walk most evenings as late as 8 to 9 p.m. after that it's mostly be set on the couch and chill. I train in the morning. So it's all good to me. I don't ever have that an overlapping effect. And I really do encourage you guys to train a little bit earlier in the day because you want at least two post workout meals before you go to bed. So your muscles have some food to feed on and actually grow and recover. Instead of training late at night having a quick snack and going to bed, it's a gate hours if you kind of fasting after your workout more or less. That's not a good idea. You need to feed your muscle. So I would say, finish your workout at the latest at maybe 7 p.m. and then have a meal at 7 7 30, have another lighter meal at 10. And you're good to go. Any earlier is also better. But just don't go too late because then you're going to be fight or flight. You're going to be sympathetic over drive. You're not going to be able to fall asleep and you won't be able to eat all the meals that you need to to really recover from and grow a muscle for your workout. Number 10. Duff tales well into this. Having light evening meals instead of heavy evening meals. Eating large meals closer to bedtime, worsens sleep quality. But lighter dinners improve sleep onset. You don't want to be totally hungry and I run fall asleep like that, but you also don't want to be over full. If you're over full, heavy digestion actually raises your body temperature, which is exactly the opposite of what kicks you into sleep. That's no good. And that reduces your probability of falling asleep on time. And if you do fall asleep on time, it almost certainly degrades your sleep quality for an hour or two. No good. No good at all. So the real world tip is to have dinner two to three hours before bedtime. You can have a meal closer to bedtime. It's totally fine. But what you want to do is really emphasize having moderate to high protein and low tomatara carbs and low tomatara fats. You want to avoid overly spicy food or acidic food if it gives you gastrointestinal reflex. That's for sure. If you're hungry before bed or in an hour of bed, you can choose a small snack like Greek yogurt that often helps. What I do is I do a genius shot or two with soda as my last meal very often. A lot of times I'll have Greek yogurt. I with the 20 grams of protein and three grams of fat per serving. I think there's the Oicos Greek yogurt. I have like two or three of those. They're awesome. Casey and shake or Casey and putting works really well. Don't over consume fluids because you're going to wake up a bunch to pee. Keep it low flu that works. A lot of times I'll have some ground turkey with avocado oil and a bit of salt and seasoning and I rarely have any more food than that. I used to still like spirit wise. I love eating a little food and falling asleep. It's bad for your health. It's bad for sleep, it's bad for gains. It's not only doing that much anymore. It's sad but such as life. Scott you know what you can actually eat before bed and I found this out just recently. It actually really really promotes good sleep. I have some ideas but go ahead. This dude did the do you want? Do you want to try it? I think you were a minute would have proved so on that. What was that? Okay again a new video guy required for the YouTube channel. Please submit your resume in the comments. Number 11 the last major tip and this is a big one. This is one that I have struggled valiantly against and doing better. Thoughts of what could have been. No, sorry. That's just daily life. Avoiding evening arousal. Which doesn't mean arousal in this case though it also does. Drama and what's called a digital temptation. Let's discuss. If you want the best sleep, you have to be in a relaxed, parasympathetic non-fighter flight state of mind. If you go on to what is called by researchers, the internet, you may find relaxation and calm, but you might also find emotionally charged online debates. Scott, let's do a debate really quick. Can you tell me I'm wrong? Mike, let's just wrong. No, you're wrong. No. Block. I'm right. Delete. Go to my own social media and bridge post about you. That's it. Scott and I just did dull internet for you. Some did all up. Don't do that. That'll keep your ass away because you'll get pissed. That's fighter flight and try. Know the sucks. If you really want good sleep, try to avoid provocative late night interactions like sexting and flirt texting. It's really the same thing. So heated arguments or flirtatious exchanges trigger your sympathetic nervous system, fighter flight, arousal, fight flight or, oh, I guess the other thing that also starts with an F. Love. Increases cortisol and increases adrenaline. So that does not put you to sleep. It's tempting. It's tempting. It's tempting. I know. So what are some real-world tips? You can enforce a no controversial debates after dinner rule. I actually don't even watch political programming after dinner and I sure should don't go to debate people after dinner. Dating apps. Scott, what if she's hinge, swipe, Tinder, Bumble. Bumble. Binder for you. Christian singles. J-date for J-date. Bottom resuffling. Farmer's only was a sweet, a sweet side is a sweet side. J-date. I have a joke about J-date that I can't say on this channel or any public forum. However, me and real life asked me about my J-date joke. It's not a lot of joke, but it's a giggle. Um, get them apps and silence your app notifications. You do not even ping by that one girl. Keep trying to get it at one in the morning. I'm trying to sleep bitch. Oh. Instead, because they're okay. So I tell you, okay, don't do this kind of stuff. And I've got to find Dr. Mike. I don't do it. But then what are you supposed to do? You need different activities. You can do reading. You can do podcasts that are like cool storytelling podcasts. Instead of like super exciting ones, gentle music. You can chat with your significant other. You can talk to your dog even though he's asleep and never really cared for you. You knew never really loved you. But you purchase the dog you can't return himself. Go to a website called marginal revolution. It's technical economics literature and summaries of also boring technical economics articles that come out every day. Regions to marginal revolution. You'll be out in no time. It'll be great. And you might learn something too. Sheet like that. Cormor or intellectual reading is a really good idea. You guys remember when you were studying in 10th grade and you were trying to do the biology exam, but then every time you open the book about 50 minutes later, you file a sleep, use that to your advantage. It's a really, really big deal. Look, you can do them scroll any other time of the day. Just don't let it ruin your sleep. What do I do in this case? To wrap things up? I straight up almost never read comments anymore because if I can't debate you line by line point by point, prove my intellectual superiority. I just get pissed at seeing the comment and then it wraps around in my brain and jokes me to death. It's a huge flaw and quite open about it. And so I don't really do a whole lot of comments reading too often and especially sure shit not late at night. This I've done for a late at night comments. I've avoided for years because I didn't know it just sends me to the moon. Most people on the internet are dope, but a few people who think they know things but really don't and say upsetting things. They really get under my skin much more than I'd like to admit though I just admitted it. It really drives me crazy to reach it like that. Or is the latin essay crazy? Speaking of which, if you happen to be a latina, you need to know about Jared Feather, IFVV Pro. Let me tell you why. He is... Scott loves this part. Jared Feather is a 5 foot 10 5 foot 11 tall man. Jared isn't as early 30s. Jared is single. He's a professional body builder. He is a master's degree holder. He is a person that takes care of pretty much all of his family with his millionaire finances. None of this is a joke and he's gonna love you. Especially if you're a latina or Southeast Asian, like you've never been loved before. And so especially if you're a latina, consider the RP Diet Coach app. Because you're a latina, you're almost flawless. Few weeks of dieting with the RP Diet Coach happening that body fat down a little bit. Bring that muscularity up and you might even be noticed by a Mr. Jared Feather and end up in his arms, which would be amazing. Also, and as the last thing I'll say, I promise. You guys know that series of Star Wars series in a Disney channel called Andor. You feel me? That one girl, andor is wife or whatever girlfriend, Bix. You don't understand, and girl. You don't have to run a high from no empire, King Jerry's got your back. Put them sleeping pills away, girl. Who's gonna... who's gonna protect you better? Jared Feather, IFBB Pro, photo here, or Darth Vader and the Empire and the Emperor and all the storm troopers. It's not even close. Will he break your heart in the end? Probably, would it be really fun while happens? So Bix, wherever actress that is, Jared Feather lives and exists, and he already knows about you and he is ready and full of love. Why, can we talk about Jared Feather for a long time? Because he is period, I'll see you guys next time. Sweet dreams.

Hey guys, yes, I'm wearing a biking hat. Yes, it's made a plastic. Yes, we're here in the rectific Iceland We're gonna do crazy stuff. We're gonna go to the gym. We're gonna walk around and we're gonna try crazy food that I'm gonna regret Don't order that three two one regret Seems good to me They told me that Iceland was going to be stunning refined Melting glaciers blue lagoons, but what I found out about Iceland was that things are pretty wacky All right, get ready for our fun day exploring Iceland and I've got the Norwegian Arctic Cod Smoke Rose Bread caviar as that's how Icelanders start today with fish paste in their mouths at least That's what the tour guide said so true to my word Believe this is how we brush our teeth one up deep Iceland here we come all right busy day of seeing Iceland today Maybe I'll get a workout and the hotel gym but wait before we go in there Let's check it out The best part about this gym is that they have a bust of me I introduced you to offseason like what the you guys There's water in here bro and Iceland We have got many gods and one of them is the god with pilates machines that the wave power No, that holy shit we don't use dumbbells anymore. We use oversized labia And yeah, it's like a kettlebell, but You think you go to school for the shit. You realize you don't know anything. Oh, there's math Okay, in Iceland it's Made of wood wood here is strong not like American the giant of wood It's got more friction than gravity. I'll tell you that The best tool for training is a thick because you can beat people with it and you can beat the fitness into them This is beautiful and he has a Universal unisex non-genitals, but that has been clapping Who's brave enough to do dips on wood? Get your ass killed up in here. He got Seems good to me The Nordics just like got to this crazy high standard of living and they just like wet and worth of that I'm to just pure free where they're just like let's make things out of arbitralis shitty and inappropriate materials Just for our sake let's go somewhere else Maybe a real workout at some point Well the hotel gym was a total bust Still needed to work out so we took the car out to drive across the beautiful Iceland countryside to find a gym Nice for things don't make any sense Hello, you are too This is Icelandic Mike here and I've got my gonna slander gags sentence Clearly under left we've seen random buildings and it's fucking cold even though it's gonna august It's like 50 degrees which fries landers probably means about 10 if you do sent to grade and then on the other side is a most beautiful part of Iceland's got take a look Go ahead swing the camera Nothing here at all the so all speed limit here is like 45 f**king miles an hour for the whole country Icelanders you're amazing all love in respect as doctor Mike like to say stupid jub Two things we have to check out the gym scene we heard it was dope bodybuilding scene where to gym But people say it's quite good we about to peep the scene and see if that's true Oh in the second thing check this out I have a dance ready And you like that shit huh let's go Oh Who wants a photo get the guy here Would you like a cock yeah A big one big cock that's huge like just say it's a loaf of bread when people ask what is There People out there in bathing suits swimming In Iceland this is peak summer it's 55 degrees outside People are swimming and a swimming pool behind me and sliding around water slides Some different up here in the water man the Nordic peoples that just stronger. I don't know how to I wouldn't swim if it was 10 degrees warmer The shit is wild high-slanders You're it whoa holy shit There's naked titties on it Who made this? These people are on a flying carpet in the sky, okay? And then those people up there are all in the sky of the sky How the does that work? Remember me from the gate bus never tell her they oh shit I was on a lot of drugs man attention of cock suckers and other pieces of shit If you don't congratulate Thor and Odin will come down from heaven and can kill you themselves and it's more than you deserve because arguably you could go to Valhalla because technically it's a battle Anyway, I think I've talked myself until a whole as usual goodbye Guys Skylam Rick here's in here for the BBC news channel. I'm in Iceland the place For fitness For wholesome Family fun for an actimate loved ones and relatives. I was at the World wide world wide fitness World class I was at the world class fitness gymnasium lots of machines lots of folks getting on Amazing fitness with each other nothing foul nothing mood and Overall a really good place to be What the fuck You guys just to reiterate this is a statue of people doing the nastiest nastiest things I'm touching a buttocks Iceland and you're goaded This was awesome. We're done with the gym. We're on to more hijinks and honestly my hands and give us to eat test Amazing workout and the workout is done time to refuel and with what else other in the Iceland's most delicious Traditional snack We are eating a Icelandic classic that is basically fermented shark Let me dissuade you from having any illusions about the fermentation process actually entails It's literally shark that was allowed to decompose For how long sometimes riding meat should I smell it before? No It's good for YouTube sky whatever you want like You should be really tried it out Don't order that Oh, oh this one tastes a little bit ammonia Marcus has the drink taste oh oh That was way worse than what I had yesterday that tastes like ammonia We found friendly people that are willing to take fermented shark are you guys okay to be happy to Cheers I First in your trip it's a Like it's all right This guy is Better than the one in Sweden from actually yeah folks Iceland is an amazing food amazing people's We're an amazing cultural heritage and Unfortunately it's sort of tastes like if you made pea salad fermented shark is awful Iceland I'm leaving sure Iceland's known for really strange things like fermented shark But it's also known for really strong things enter Swar Swar, Swar, Swar, Swar, Swar One more thought let's go Slow slow chest up chest up chest up rack Holy sith Oh That's it Welcome everybody we're here at the horsepower gym in the wreck of a geyslent and the rock manure the fake accent going to fit in now Looking around the first thing I noticed is it's fucking cold You guys it's so cold here. It's oh Anyway, Thor's power gym. We're gonna get into here. We're gonna see what the hell is going on Who is really the strongest of the gym you boy? I already know this shit But we're gonna check out some equipment clown on some shit maybe make a few friends and maybe a few enemies to Probably not enemies maybe enemies enemies. Let's go make them Whoa I'm gonna go cry somewhere lots of bars lots of logs of course the axle the frames the farmers the yolks Some of these equipment as well when you see especially the metal ones or custom made how much does this way without the added weight This one is 92 kilos which I think is like well close to 200 200 200 or two or five yeah 25 is yeah each of them yeah every single machine in here you'll notice they are Exile side But yeah we have every kind of stone that I will close to up to I think our max is 280 kilos That was when we have it was preparing for strong as men on earth last year I like the rack height here is hilarious isn't it? And this is this isn't even halfers yet so this would be halfers safety bar height Yeah, it's everything you need for strength to my belief Over the years I built this mall strength community here and String my second home This is how people tear by sense That's too heavy The big looks on now you're looking strong enough You're your dad's of the your dad's your dad's your dad's I failed every Icelandic manhood tests so far I'm gonna go and fail all of them undefeated This is intense Well, I clearly failed the standards of Icelandic manhood But I can always do what I do best eat my feelings Let's go to the grocery store find out what we can catch All right folks, so I'm Sam Warn Iceland trying to live bodybuilding lifestyle We're gonna go shopping get a little food. I heard the Iceland grocery store is something pretty special My can't do this by myself, so I picked out a local ice lender to help me out his name is bar Goose Rodriguez that's an interesting Icelandic name There's a VJ isn't there oh yeah Marko's to the V.I. I guess a bit a bit a bit a bit a bit that's a yama First down I love your ice land is the shit. Let's go check out We out here baby Got the leap Gonna be Icelanders here after I eat all of this food and one sitting you guys ready Make it happen I'm gonna eat some of the food we bought is it fun is it weird is it fun and weird? Who knows? That's mine down you ever gonna look really strange conundrum your nice one you love Prashuto your vegan no problem We got this this is the only breast sola I don't know how It's chewy You're really legit at john the radiator like in the 80s Came back like two days later and was like months it yeah it's great classic next I don't know What this is exactly this this jerky take up e-smart us oh Dude oh shit that smells Get you with Hmm This smells like bad fish food like in pet life. Yeah, yeah for real cheers That was too much you put worth the whole thing Oh It's awful what's next next is kifir which in Russian is pronounced kifir Ew it's heavy no it was like heavy and then light I don't think you should get one I should get Nothing came out It's congealed holy shit. There's light toothpaste Max is losing it yeah it takes fine it's fine right hey kifir Even the kids love it you can put it inside you I wouldn't Back I'm off wrong Max is done again Scott can you You guys we've been up a long time we didn't sleep last night big night of travel It's very clear what we're trying to do with trying to show you kifir We're not trying to lie to you but accept implicitly because it's a fucking milk product we're no fucking protein in it Guys it's me I slandic talk to Mike Welcome to Reykjavik it's been such a great time with you. I mean it's Me dog rest and look at how beautiful it is We've got fun can see girls flying dark grafe can skies in the middle of the day It's called a shit and there's three zir begging for a life Wish they had legs and could walk down south if you know what they mean in any case folks all jokes aside Reykjavik is awesome if you ever visit you gotta go to Thor's power The gym is unbelievable tons of other great gyms here amazing food Ask for the fermented shark and make sure to eat a bunch of it right away the mouth feel for him I'm a ton of fermented shark in your mouth for the first time ever unbeatable It's just amazing and People are involved in activities like skateboarding. It's really good for you stay in fit the ice lenders know what's up Guys let us know if you had fun during this video we sure shit did and uh hey throw in the comments Where the RP crew should go next a lightweight before you go

Oh yeah slow, trolled. You got it. Delt's a silt's. Yeah, that's good enough. And, Rack. Is it, though? I need to do that. Yeah, that was epic. YouTube, YouTube, YouTube. Guess what I have me today? I have YouTube, I have me be pros. Mmm. Not me. This guy, Chad Caudill, he's a men's physique, I have TV pro, which is fucking hilarious because he's enormous. I'm an open bodybuilder, but I ain't shit. Jared Feather is a classic physique pro. Jared quickly hit a classic post to remind them. Boom, you see how classic that was? Can you do a men's physique post real quick? Oh yeah, it's a cool thing. It's all my business. Oh no. Last time Chad was here, you guys saw him on the channel. We annihilated Justin, try a substance. He even hit him by a substance to this time. Actually, on his way out, he was like, back. And we were like, well yeah, didn't get enough. Scheduled a men for some reason. You came back. A lot of people, not so interested in coming back after the workouts. Chad is the fucking man. He's back here. We're going to do back. I texted him earlier today. It was like, hey, do you want a thickness priority workout? We're a width priority. He said, thickness. Thickness is in. Let's get to it. Just got the bar. Big chest at the bottom. So a lot of people will do them right, but then they'll kind of go like this at the bottom. Big chest that we're really just key spine is curved a little bit. Upper back. So here. So enable. You touch the tummy every time. Full stretch to touch the ground every time. But you're back never moves. Okay. Zero-eating zero-howing, too. Zero-eating zero-howing. Zero-howing. Don't do it. Don't hoe. You can even, don't hoe. So before you pick it up, let me know when you're ready to pick it up. And I'll give you some more cues. Ready? Yep. So before you pick it up, don't pick it up. Just lift your chest up, arch your back. More. More. More. Now. Just in that position, touch the tummy. Yes. Touch it. You don't have to pause. Touch gently through the tummy. No pause. Touch. And down to control. Control the center. Slow. Great. Control. Gentle touch the bottom. Yeah. Good low back with straight man. That's perfect. Yep. Control that last bit of range of motion, too. All the way down. Gentle touch. You're good in one more. Slow and rack. That's it. That was a great man. Very good. A little different. Dr. Mike, I can't get a big back. What do I do? Barbell Batrail. For the last one. For the last one. For the lats. For the lats. Let's take it away. If you want to roll for the lats, here's how you do it. Pick the shit up. Make sure it sticks in alignment. No deck, no problem. Barbell Batra Rose sets a 10 to 20. Maybe even 15 to 20 reps here for Chad. Probably about four sets. He's just learning a technique. The super crazy super rom technique. For the first time, you guys see the mouth deficit. He's a fucking killer though. He's got a downpat. It's going to be a total back. An isolation. That gives us the overall mass of thickness stimulus. Me need why. Because the row hits the middle traps, lower traps, rhombines. Terror's major lats. Final directors. There is actually not a part of the bass that the rose doesn't hit. Or what else? Even the rear delts. Those rear delts that you're like, how do I grow them? We're just on good terms with the rear delts. I do rear delts. I do rear delts. We've got all of my pulling. We've got all of my pulling. Makes where we're at. I'll take one of my best. Chest. Two. Chest up. Three keep going. Fuck it. I'm going keep going. Keep going. And no bullshit either. You know they're good. Next time, when you hit your last wrap, slow it. If you can do another one, even a little extra. Let the eccentric fuck you up on last time and then just let go. Beautiful. Full stretch around forward. Ready to stay in the heels. Yes. Or come out. There you go. Here come one. Two more. Let's go. Big chest. One more. Big chest. A string of stretch. Good. Oh. Slow and perfect. Woo. You get that question mark face like what the fuck? I'm gonna do it. I'm not gonna. I'm not gonna let everybody. We were also a couple of years ago. Yeah. It's kind of cool though, right? Because when you do that roast typically people are like at even four plates. No, you don't. Get out of here. Yeah. How much do you weigh right now? Two 60. Two 60. We're rolling. Listen up. Two 60. I FBB Pro. 260 pound. That's physical competitor. Doing 135 pounds on deficit roll for sets of 10 to. For sets of 15 to 20. Get in the fucked up. A little bitch. Damn. Damn. I mean, I didn't go on salt. I mean, I didn't go on salt. Delete this part off camera. I can't see GIME more weights on that. I can't be seen like this. That's the foam weight there on here. Just up at the bottom. Yes. Feel your shit stretching out like that. Boom. More. One more. We just, we just, we just. That's it slow, slow. And. And that roast is the easiest and most unequivalent thing ever. Yep. We're done. Almost worse than like straight like a delifts. Walsh. I hate those. All right. Ready for the next workout? You do this. You're going to need this again. Come to the swing. I want you to pause at the very fucking top for a split second. Pause. And then go just like that every single time. And you're going to notice that that pause burns, living fuck out of your back towards the higher reps. Crunch. Yes. And then a big full stretch with it. There you go. Yep. Every time it has to hit the bottom. Chattley touched the bottom. And up. And then down. And relax. That's it. Four sets of bottle of out rows down the hatch. Amazing. Chad super pumped. But now we take the directors at least the lower directors out of play by sitting down in a machine. The prime row, which I love. The prime row is actually leveraged. One of the ways you can use it. It's a super crazy psycho stretch at the bottom. And then make the top nice and easy. You get the awesome peak contraction. And a big stretch. It tends to hit the middle upper back. A ton of rhomboids. All the muscular chair around there. It's going to be beautiful. Again, we're going to be doing sets of 10 to 20 reps. Typically results in a really good set far to the back. You guys are going to see we're going to be a big focus on the super stretch. And a big focus on a one second pause at the top with the chest up. He will be rounding his back at the bottom. Arching his back at the top. Why do that, Dr. Mike? Because your back does that. And against resistance, your back grows. Stretch just over deep. Yes, two. Three. That's one. Make it good. Four, hold, slow, slow, stretch. Back. Good chest. There you go. Square can feel your back growing from all the way to the muscle. Beautiful, it's just like that. Or just. There's a big chest. Three more. One. Over. Let's go. Two. Stretch. Fuck yeah, slow, deep gentle. You're fucking out. This knee pads are awesome. You like that, you're just like fucking sets you right in. Yeah, go anywhere. Usually, like this. Oh, it's all I was doing. Yeah. That really looks like this machine. Take that Jared Jared Pizza. I think I really like this one. Three more. One. Two. Three. Down. Do not unstrap, strap and harder. Strap in. Take it a little way off. When you're strapped, do four more reps. Oh. Good. Yep. Two more. Go. Slow. Gentle. One last one. Now, it's wrapped. Straight. Strap in. Super lightweight. No pause at the top. Just going to do ten. Ten straight. Slow, eccentric. One tiny fraction of a second at the top. And then go, go, go. A little bit of fun at the last set. Hit it. Boom. Slow. Two down. Three. Seven. You're right. Chest at the bottom. Yeah. Eight. Yes. Two more. Nine. One last one. Big stretch. Ten. That's it. That was dirty. That was nasty. I'm not sure. Good stuff. Good stuff. We'll be back here. What a test for Mark. You know, why don't we do deal with choice or Jared's choice? What do we think? I feel you pros. Seems like some of these techniques are kind of new. We're getting it down with a regular bar choice mark. That's true. Just pull downs. I don't know how to do this super well. Jared will take over as coach. Yes. How do you reach this? I'm not just I stand on the thing. Why you look at me ask me how I reach it. I'm not too much. I'm at least your height. I got right on the ground and bend. Really come forward. Yep. And I'll stretch you up completely. You should feel this tear apart. Keep going. Like basically smack. Fucking neck when you don't. And then down like this. And all the other chest. Yeah. That's why I didn't grab a little closer. It's gonna be hard to set your chest there. You try. All the way up. Let us stretch you forward and up. Four sets of bent rows. Four sets of prime machine rows. Now we're probably going to do three sets of lap pole downs. Three sets is fewer than four of course. Definitely fewer than eight than we spent rowing. And it's at the end of the workout. So it's less efficacious. But that is the nature of a thickness or horizontal emphasis back workout. Which this is. You can't emphasize everything. It's got to be one of the other. So we say, well, why does the view more pole downs? Well, that's for another time. It has to work out. Maybe a workout later on of the week. Maybe another different. That's a cycle of ways. I'm emphasizing with to be eight. She's wide as fuck. So I might not need to happen for a while. And yeah, just three sets of pole downs. Ten to twenty reps each time coach Jared. Here's gonna. Gonna be giving the cues because. Pull down to me is just another opportunity to express my bad assory as fucking wild animal brother. I can't be cageed. You do this fucking bullshit. Bullshit bullroom technique. Out of our pee. Out of a rum. Bunk all y'all. Come on baby. Get it. Anyway, let's do some work. Just up. Just up. Just up. There it is. Don't stop that shut. I'm pulling you for like a full second. There you go. Perfect. Yes. Good. Good. That's it. What's your. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's it. Ouch. Yeah. I got on my own a stretch and my body won't let me stretch the high. It's like fucks over here. This hurts. Good. Good shit man. I think. All the way all the way. Yes. There you go. Me and forward. That's fucking full. Yes. Yeah. Extratch. There you go. That was a perfect breath. Oh fuck yeah. And shit man. All day. I told that last bit of the emotion. Full stretch. Pull you a little. Pull you. There you go. There you go. You got the more. You got the stretch. They just come on. Only big chest. It's just the bar. powerful. That's one. It's just. Just. Just up. That's your slow stretch. Rack. That's it. Very good. Very good. I have some water. I have a seat. Yeah. We'll be on our last exercise. Scott, can I move your. Can I move your Gandalf staff? You shall not film without a thing to put your camera on to do this. That's what this is for. You guys didn't know. You boys in Hollywood. Last exercise for the day. It's back thickness and stuff. But Chad wanted to build. It's tough because you can never have to build. It's for men's physique. Super on laterals. Of course. Myorups. Of course. So we're going to do myorup match. We're going to let him do a single set. Very close to failure. And whatever rups he gets on that for the next three sets after that. Or sets total. He's going to have to match that first sets reps. No matter how many mini sets it takes with three to five seconds. Rakes in between. Full range of motion. Super control in the bottom. Out. Let's do it. Start down here. With zero momentum only with your shoulders. Albo's relatively straight or completely straight. Do you lose choice? Come all the way up as high as you can. And then slow it on the way down. The temptation is to come up control. And then kind of let it go like this. Come up under control. And then slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow slow. And backup. Technique is number one. The first thing that's going to try to go on you is this is going to start to get fast. We're going to yell at you for you not to do that. Control the eccentric. Cool. Let's get it done. Oh, you got to come on. Four more. Let's go one slow. Two slow. Two slow. Two slow. Two slow. Two slow. Two slow. Two slow. Two slow. No woman. Delta. There you go. Three slow. One more. We got a call man. You got it. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go slow slow slow. Good. Good stuff. Chad, did you get a count on that? 21. I think four more was that was that 15. Okay. Somewhere around there. So it's in 19. I know. I know. 21. Let's call it 20 or 21. 20. 21. 21. 21. 23 sets of 20. All right. But you get a three to five second rest break as many times as you need to take it in each one of those sets to just get to 20. Okay. One more. Off slow. Raph. Jesus. Punching ocean of the top. Say what? Sadja was going to be taught. What? We're doing this a while. You're like a doctor. It gave me a cold degree and everything. That was a mistake. How's your back in? I'm going to get 12 for you. Yeah. And let's do five. Oh. Great control. Two. Three. Two. Three. Two. Four. Up. Up. Up. Up. Go, go, go, go, go. Slow. Raph. Three. Take a five to ten seconds and it will be last three. Then two more sets of 20 of course. Three to be all day. Control just. She's the delts. Delts are right there. Yes. One more. Perfect. Slow. Raph. Come on. Ready? I'm not feeling well. You're laying in shame. Come on, Branch. Come on, Branch. What's up with your forearms, bro? As far as? Look, the veins. Oh, this. You ever see some show like that? Oh, wow. Once every couple of years. Yeah. Once every couple of years. When I'm in prep. Yeah. Up and more. Up and more. Up and more. Yes. Slow. Slow. One more. Get it together. Pappa, pappa, pappa. Slow. Raph. Oh, that's 12. So, 12. 12. 13. It's shut. Fuck. I'm in back. Go, go, slow. It's good. Raph. Oh, I three left. Did your fucking killing this is awesome. One. Great control. Two. I'm right out. Let's go. Get him. Pappa, pappa, pappa. Yes. Oh, yeah. Raph. Base forward. Completely straight arms. Again, squeeze. Slow. Up. Slow. Up. Slow. Up. Again. This last one I want you to hold it at the very top until I say, up. Come on, man. Hold. Hold. Go. Hold. Hold. Resist. Resist. Resist. Resist. All set. I'm not sure. Jesus. That's a fun one. Hey, thank you. Of course. Oddly, enough. Thank you. I would make the prayer hands. What a can of my arms. This is good. Let's get it. Dude, good stuff. All right, two things. First, Chad, thank you so much for coming again. Always an honor. You ever need a leg workout, you let us know. Oh, yeah. I know. We'll never hear from you again. Jared, what do you think? It was awesome. Just right. Keep yourself like that. You're going to grow really well into the category for sure. Yeah, definitely take that last dress. And one of you guys might hear young. That'd been over real. We have plenty of technique videos. You're going to watch yourself through it too. Yeah. I'm not sure. Touch your shoulders. Okay, yeah. You have one last thing. Can you pretend you have a baseball on tries to rot and just do it through it. Yeah. All right, folks. Thanks so much for tuning in. Like, subscribe, and we'll have Chad's information for how you can follow him. If you like this sort of man, you can follow him in all his Instagram endeavors. And Jared, father, he's an I. He's a nice, he pro. And so it was Chad and I love just your kicking rocks. I have no friends. Anyway, two next time. I was always fucking athlete. You know what I'm saying? Fellas. I was always fucking athlete. You know what I'm saying? I was always fucking athlete. You know what I'm saying? You want to, what do you call it? States. Yeah. I don't know. Get on it. I'm so early. I'm honestly more excited. Oh my god.

Let's see what's left in those arms. I can't even like feel my hand honestly. I'm serious in the left hand, like, can't hear over our minds. Left hands are overrated. Me, I'm Dr. Mike Franason's predization. This is I.P. Pro, Jared Feather and Boise Hanson. Let's just take a minute to appreciate our handsome Jared as... Jared, you will love yourself. I'm not sure. Don't stick your knife. He's years ago. He failed and never. This is Brian. That's right. Only Brian. He is an only-fans producer, mogul, multi-millionaire, no joke for real for real. Not like me. I get paid and Nick Shaw promissory notes. Don't know what they mean, but Nick says, hey, here you go. This man is top of his game, entrepreneur. Also, in a few adult productions himself, I might add. Wow, they're fine. Good enough for my end, but... Please. Look at him. In any case, I actually tried to audition for an adult film once they left it me until I just left. It wasn't even saying anything. I would've accepted. Thank you so much. Yeah, I got you. In any case, this is a busy man. Legit, he runs a team of a ton of people who create content. We do the back end stuff. He is a multi-millionaire. He's trying to make more of that money. He does not have time for a normal, sit down and wait for four minutes between sets of work out. So, Gen and I are going to take him through a gentle ginger. No way they said that wrong. Insanely difficult. Total. Upper body workout. We're going to do back. We're going to do shoulders. We're going to do arms with minimum rest between compound alternating supersets. Holy crap. Let's get going. Also. You didn't always use to look like this. You were quite shapely and quite man-esque. But how do I say this in a politically correct manner before you used to be? Fucking fat. Wow. I didn't say it. I love it. He said it. We've already stopped that much. Something about fat people. I'm not even a little jaren. How dare you? We love everyone on this channel. We love you. And we would have loved you before. You're about to get toasted with the upper body workout. Three, two, one, go. Let's go. Let's take a look. All right. We said the first exercise is going to be a superset of pull ups with dips. Muscles that are involved in both our minimum. So while the pulling muscles are resting after the pull ups, the dip muscles are working and vice versa. We're going to take about zero rest between pull ups and dips. After dips, we take 30 seconds rest just to get a little bit of air back. And then we hit it again. And again, three or four sets. We'll see how that goes. Amazing time-faving technique. But hold out. Why while I'm talking is my head smaller and off to the side. And brine being warmed up by Jared for lap pull nouns and for dips. Why don't we just get into it? Because your body weight weighs a lot. And it's always going to be even on bodyweight stuff to warm it up first. Now that he's going to be ultra warm, we're going to get right into it. And the pain begins and up. Perfect. That's it. All right. Wiggle it out. Relax a little bit. Think of happy feelings. And then we will begin the superset. So we're going to have you do as many of those pull ups as you can. Let's go to technique. As many dips as you can. We're going to let you rest about 30 seconds. And then we will repeat the process several times. Until you have begged us to stop. Please, I want to hear you say, Mike and Jared. And then when I hear that, I'll say that's Dr. Mike Keeam of the fucker. We do not count reps. We only count quality. Beautiful. Perfect. Perfect. Oh, yeah. It's called more all fucking day. Yes. Full stretch. We can control that. Show. Nice one here. That's it. That's it. Couple more. Slow. Good. Little deeper. You got this. We're here to make it hard. More. But you heard that before. Slow. Good. Good. Good. Good. Wow. Wow. Zero technique breakdown. 30 seconds. Feeling okay. All right. So far. Not like a Viagra pillar or a Dick injection or something. I don't know how you people work in our dorm. Not just make your face feel flush. All right. Go. Oh shit. One more. Let's go. All the way. Come on. Control the way down. Good. Push your unlock your feet. Unlock your feet for me. Push on me and go. Control. Push back and go. One more. Control. Push. Push. Control. Unwrap. Ooh. To the dims. I'm out by yourself. It's just so immasculating. Keep going. It's the most efficient amount of my life. Keep going. One more. Control. Push if you need to. Good. Good. Stop. I should have pushed a little more. You can't. You can't. You can't. You can't. You fucking quit. Yeah, it's finished. I want to. Oh. My man. Ah. Go. Come on. Offer two guys. One more. Bonus round. Slow control. One more. Yes. Oh. I have to tell you. Ooh. Assisted repetitions. You can do them in some situations. Make sure you're kind of improperly. If you have a log book, you count the ones you did and the ones you got assistance with. It's not always the right thing, but if you want more volume before, if you don't have an assisted pull up or a different machine, it's a way to make sure that the individual dust more up to. So we're trying to get at least five here per set. He's pretty beat up already. So I'm going to come in and let him do his many reps. He can't own and then get in there. He's going to be pushing back with his feet to extend himself. He's going to be using his legs against my frame. Help as much as possible. It's actually quite easy for me because he's just extending his legs. I just pulled right here. He puts his legs here. I don't have to physically lift him up. The partner shouldn't be lifting you. You use your partner as a frame to lift yourself up. Speaking of which, what was it what we're doing? We're going to the twig more steps. One more. Slow, deep, press up. Press. We beat that ass. We beat that ass. Wait, my mother. My mother's safe. That was awesome. Let's go do the next thing. Now, it's Brian's turn to do some chest pressing on the machine. Super set with some rolling on the machine as well. We're using the Matrix equipment here at Dragon's Lair. It's honestly fucking really good. It costs a could trillion by others' sum shit. It's got a computer in it. But it is awesome. The force curves are great. The smoothness is great. I love everything about it. He's going to be doing sets of 10 to 20 on the chest press. It sets a 10 to 20 on the roll. This is a combination of essentially resistance training work with kind of some cardio work in as well because of the speed of transition. We do both. We rest 30 seconds. We do both again. You're going to see a lot of load adjustment. It's not just one load the entire time. You will be getting tired. The machines allow us the ability to have the stability component taken care of. So you can just crank it also. The loading that we can choose to make it easier and easier. Loading wise like lighter is a better term. So that you can get enough repetitions every time to cause a lot of disruption to the muscle and also burn lots of calories to get his entrepreneur work out knowing that's even really a thing. Alright, let's get to the workout. Good. Go, go, go, go, go, go. That's it. Excellent. Right over into the row. Strap in. Right away. Right away. Right away. Crunch. Oh, yes. Two more. Full range. Good. Last one. Coming up. Big pull. Yes. Slow. As if you're going to do another. Let go. Perfect. Take 30 seconds. We're right back on the chest pass. Yes. Lock this one out. Let's go. Big push. Full lock out. Yes. Again. Slow control. We're here for pain. Come on. Push it. Push it. Good. Switch right over. Quickly, Rhodes. No time to rest. One more. Slow. And. Rack. Big lock out. Yes. Chest up. Slow control. You're in charge. Big push. Good. Couple more. Guys turn me on with that. Let's go, man. So, arcs. Fuckin' weirdo. Let's go. Big push. Good. Again. Chest up. Chest up. Let's go. Let's go to daddy. Good. Slow. Slow control. Push. Push. Push. Push. Slow. As if you're going to do another. And that's a good right into the back machine. Right into the back machine. No rest. No rest. No rest. Go, go, go, go. The phone is round. All day. Good. Look forward. There's nothing to see around there. Good. God has all the way up. Let's finish all the way up. One good wrap left. Yes. And then slow. As if another. Rack. Do. Good. Good. Good. Stop. Dumbbell upright road to dumbbell shoulder press. Seated dumbbell shoulder press. So upright road standing. Sit down and sit. Yep. Upright rows with the dumbbells. Up fast. Pause at the top. And a slow concentric. We're starting slowly centric on the right now. As soon as you've had enough of those. Try not to trip over. You will sit down into the seat. Feed up. Chest up. Touch the dumbbells. All the way to your shoulders. And go all the way to a lockout. Sit down. Doing dumbbell presses. We're supersending upright rows. Just seated dumbbell press. One. Get up. Two. That's the last one. Up high. Three. Amazing. Sit down. One. One. Get up. Two. That's the last one. Up high. Three. Amazing. Sit down. Start with the dumbbells. Touching your shoulders. And blast them up. Go. And go that. Good. Rest. Go. Go. Go. Go. Lock it. Slow. Wait. Wait for it. Don't blow anywhere. Shoulders back up. Dumb those up in the shoulders. Rest there for a second. Press. Yes. One more. Rest for a bit. Press. Yes. Slow. There's dumbbells from you. Switch to something lighter. Do an accent. Three. Right here. The fucking mat. Up and hold. Four. Yes. And what bonus round? Hell yeah. Good. One more now. One more. Oh, that one. That was good. Have a seat. We're going to be here until you do 10 of these total. And let's knock out three or four right away. And then rest with them on your shoulders. All right. Boom. Slow. Control. Up. Slow. Control. One more. Up. Slow. Control. Rest for a second. Last one and done. Go. Lock it. Lock it out. Slow. That's it. That's it. Let's go finish your arms off. It's time to finish this workout with arms. Of course arms. How are we going to let someone get out of an upper body workout without pumped up arms? You finish off your arms. You walk by the girl who works with a front desk and you're like, hey, listen lady. She's like, I'm going to cut you off. Give me your number. Let's go have consensual sex right now. That's ideal at how it works. Anything down from there will still take. Three sets. Cable curls. Supercetic of push downs. The rest of the ryan's upper body gets torched. This is straightforward again. Tired. Pist. Pumped. Frustrated. I want to be out of here. Still good technique every single rep. The great thing about cables is you're going to reduce load every time to stay in that 10 to 20 rep range. Let's get it done. Good. There. More bar and you got this. Big curl. Hold on. I'm going to turn each other. I was in totally chill. One more. Yeah, let's go. Come on. Come on. Good technique. Oh shit. Another one, man. You got some brass. Yeah. Yeah. Buck yeah. Good. One more. All the way up. Move. That's it. Rack. Push downs time. Right away. Right into it. Notice we're kind of swapping. If this is around. We did a pull first. Didn't push. Didn't push first. Then a pull. That's one way you can do these. You're going to be able to emphasize anything directly. So like if you want to bigger back. But this is all you can do. Probably the best time to do an emphasis block in your training. So when you do any kind of antagonistic workout. Do one thing first in the next. So for this, we hit the hell out of the triceps with the pushing exercises and the upright rows and the military press. Super set. Whenever we do military press, those are a lot of tricep. The pushing exercise was a lot of tricep. We haven't really done too much biceps. So we're going to do biceps first here intentionally. That way he's not too close to do a bunch of reps because if you try to do, you guys have seen me do it on the channel. If you're trying to do a bunch of curls after a push down, probably not going to happen. So biceps first, the triceps have gotten hit pretty well. And then triceps to finish up. Push. Good. Again, slow. No breaks. Push. That's it. And. Rack. Right over right into curls. Hit it. Three. Two more. Right. Let's go. Run. Oh shit. Yeah. All the way up to the lock. All the way up. Come on. All the way up. Oh, what was that? Do that again. Halfway through a quitting ball shed. Let's go. All the way up to the top. Go. You got two. One. Slow. Last one. All the way up. Two. Slow. Oh shit. Up. Slow. And. Rack. Good. Right into push. That's what's going to shut strong. Five. Good. One last one. Everything you've got. They with it. Lock it. Slow. Is it for another? There we go. Let's do it. Lock it. There we go. Yes. And. Rack. Ehh. Yeah. Oh. Good shit man. All right. Let's do it. Right away. Let's see what's left in those arms. I can't even like feel my hand honestly. I'm serious. My left hand like. From here over. All the way down. Chaps touches the ground. I'll be good. Good. All the way. Chaps to the ground. Come on man. One more. Slow. One more. Slow. One more. Slow. Control. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh yeah. That's it folks. Good job. That is it. The body has given up. Mmm. Got a pump. You can just stay right there. Stay right here. Watch standing assistance. We are about to assist in. Big little. I made them from me to work out on this kid. So I don't know. This is great entrepreneurship. I'll do for Newbridge. Listen. Go out there and be a CEO of your own shit. You feel me start small just to see you of you. And then maybe some other people get in the mix. And then all of a sudden you're multimillionaire. You know what I'm saying? Adult. Celebrity. Yeah. I want to say that. Something like that. Behind the scenes man. Yeah. The money man. See. Yeah. In any case. Originally, why the workout? Yeah. Good. I got to start working a little bit harder at home. I'm saying bagging. A lot of people say that after they train with that. Not acceptable. Well, you did excellent. Good luck using your arms the rest of the day. Yeah. And yeah. That's for real when I got. Wow. No bad. I hope nothing is the somewhere that you need in on a tall shelf or something like that. I'll just grab one of my teeth. There you go. Luckily you're of an adult height and you'll be just fine. Dude, thank you so much for coming on the channel. It's been a pleasure. It's been a pleasure. Beating you up. I'm TV. And folks, if you have any questions, comments, please leave them below. And see you next time.

Music Hey folks, it's up to me Dr. Mike for a Renaissance Periodization and I would like for you to give to come along with me for a little ride and the ride isn't that fun, it's not a roller coaster. It's just myself and the Jared training back. This is like our real world vlog style training session where we just train back like we normally do Wednesday morning and we're in Las Vegas, Nevada. Elevation gym, we go to a couple of gyms here, the other two being Fit Club and of course, wow it's going to swear. And Dragonslear, Flex F and Lewis, all great gyms. This one's great too. If you're ever here in Las Vegas, Nevada, I would check those three gyms out at least. We are going to be doing bake three exercises. Jared's back is a little bit hurt. He has a back injury kind of in his lower back, so he's going to be trying to figure out ways around that. We'll see how that works. I'll feel pretty good but we'll find out what's going on. We got pull ups, assisted pull ups for more volume and slightly high repetitions and then cable flexion rows. We are going to warm up with assisted pull ups for regular pull ups because well, we're like 200 whatever out pounds. We're going to start doing that right now. And if you really like this kind of video, we'll log style training session. We do these all the time in the member section, so this is kind of like one of those little like, oh the members get in and you get it as well. If you want more of this kind of stuff, give some thought to signing up for the membership and check five bucks a month and you get an extra video every week and every now and again one of these videos will be this vlog count from about training. We recorded a bunch of them. We're going to record a bunch more in the future, so come along for the ride. Warm it up, warm it up, assisted pull ups are excellent warm up for regular pull ups. Exercise is very similar. You can use a very small fraction of weight. One thing that's pretty cool in warm ups is you instantly realize the utility of the warm up. Because typically the first warm ups set, I'm using 160 pounds. I'm extra assistance, which is a ton. Typically the warm ups set feels like I'm so weak. And my joints are so creaky that the idea that this would instead be my first work set is wild. I would underperform like crazy. I'd be like six reps off of what I could normally do. And I would be a little bit concerned about getting hurt. Do any things cold as stupid? Just why when people try to do like pull ups cold, I was like what are you doing? Why do push-ups like this too, buddy? You should warm those up too. When I start warming up, everything feels creaky and weak and weird. And I'm like oh my god, fuck my even spurs the business. Blood gets flowing, joints get greasy. Second warm ups set, I'm like better. Still in all I'm going to do this work set, shit. Third warm ups set, how much okay, great. First work set, I'm like okay damn, I felt pretty good. And the second work set, I'm supposed to like, we're grooving for sure, I'm not into the next work sets. How do I know what I'm going to be training? Bottom left. That's what knows my training nowadays. The RP training app. And as you can see, it already has my lift program from the last time and has automatically updated my rep goals and the weights that I'm using after I do each one, I'll check in. Yahoo, I just got to follow the upside. 160 pounds of resistance for 12, 85 pounds of assistance rather for 8. Feel pretty groovy. Probably go to the actual pull-up station. You'll see in a sec, it's not that great. And then I will, I do about two reps, get the feel for it, and then next set after. There's a work set, we're shooting for all round 10. Why in that? Yeah. Oh, I hate feeling constrained. Let me try. Ah. Works. Yeah. Yeah. I'm putting on straps. Here it's that they helped a lot on this. I have this thing with straps where recently since I'm getting older on 38, I haven't been on the career maybe has a couple years left in it. I'm trying to milk all the gains that I possibly can. And there's still this egotistical thing of like, why don't he? I don't need straps for this. But if they get me one extra high quality rep with a mine muscle connection that's really good versus me having to think about my grip at the same time, I think it's worth it. So I'm trying to do is like, I'll just use straps and anything I need to, even hypothetically get a small benefit from. I'll use the shit. If you think about it for a while, and you're like, why am I in here? Is it to do some ego bullshit with my grip versus to get a big back? Yeah, it's sort of kind of clarifies itself. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to do that. I'm not going to do that. Ugly last rep. By the way, Target 11 reps. I got shock marked automatically moves down to the next set. Eight is my wrapped target. For this next set, I got to get eat pull ups. This pre plans my progression for me to make sure that I'm hitting small PR's every session. If I can't auto detect that my performance is off, and it tells me, hey, you're good. In a five fix it in half a week, it says, hey, everything's good. Everyone has a bad day. If it finds out that for a week's straight, you've been declining on a muscle group, it recommends a deal-ode or a few recovery sessions. Weird sports size game. Literally, right? The end spit. Amazing. Real life. I want to try to set with no straps. Unfortunately, putting straps under this thing is kind of tough. I like to cinch him in, and I can't get a good angle of a cinch, so I'll just use some extra chalk and see if I can see when you get that situation going. These are actually pretty good grip elements, so pray for me. I'm not going to do this. I'm not going to do this. I'm not going to do this. I don't want to brag. You might not be able to do this, just not that level of financial well. I straight up walked into a Walmart a couple of days ago, legally purchased this item. Hey, God, man, what do you think is the shelf of Walmart? You guys have to have three bucks store. They invited them over. What's a reboc store? They have a thing called a reboc store. My consent concentric. Pretty explosive, which is nice, a generate a lot of muscle activation that way, not mandatory. I'd like to do them, but the eccentric, especially at the bottom is slow. I'm really, really milk that stretch and also a fast reversal at the bottom. Slight increase in injury risk and for what? To do more reps. Why? To grow more muscle. Yes. What if you did fuel reps, but did each rep better? You grow probably the same amount of muscle from that with a net reduction in injury risk. You're kind of like winning on all sides there. The only loss you're taking is you type in seven instead of six reps or whatever or six instead of seven in your notebook or in your RP training app coming soon. So a lot of stuff in the gym is kind of ego driven by default. Are you sort of in a process that? Like, oh, why am I trying so hard to get 12 reps on here at the expense of my technique? You think about it longer? You're like, because 12 reps damn it. And then you're like, wait a minute. If the technique is good, the progression should result from just me getting stronger over time. But you're zeroing on a really, really good technique and make sure that the reps come as they come. If I can't get another rep with good technique, it's just not happening. 11, 8, 7, 6, pull ups. That's the last set. Six, time for assisted pull ups. Same grip. The big benefit of assisted pull ups is too full. One, you get more repetitions per set, which can a lot of times put you in that rep range that's more conducive to growth. At this point, I'd be doing sets of four and three, probably better to do sets of five to ten. But I'm going to actually get into the ten to fifteen range with the assistance. The other benefit is that the assisted pull up slows the movement down for you. And puts it on rails so you can think less about the mechanics of pulling and more about how the mind muscle connection is feeling. Are you getting that good decompression? Are you really letting that stretch pull the muscle apart? The mind muscle connection and assisted pull ups, it's not just helping you with weight and you just do the same old pull up that you can. It helps you with the weight so you can focus more on your technique, on your mind muscle connections, specifically not your gross motor technique. I think that's a really really big thing. And if you do assisted pull ups right, it's a light bulb moment. We're like, oh, fuck, this isn't just pull ups with assistance. It's a little bit more than that to really, really meticulous muscle growth training. F ally Holy moly. Oh, I can feel that. This is a great hamstring. This is a chin and dip. Recommended. Very good machine. Not the best of its kind. But damn, it's up there. Really critical things to look for in a assisted pull-up machine are one good range of motion, especially bottom stretch. Two is very smooth lubrication, which combines with three to be something like, you can get a lot of eccentric loading, a lot of loading on the stretch. Some machines. It's really hard to pull up and then away down your leg. That's no good. The eccentric is huge. And robbing yourself of that. Not going to result in a time-mort growth. This machine pretty well checks all those boxes so it's good in my book. So, good enough grips for me here, especially with just the assistance weight. I don't have to use straps, reverses. Not bad. Not bad. Just really trying to focus on following the movement up is just up, whatever. Following it down, feeling my last stretch under load and really pull apart. Really helps me make sure I'm preferentially activating my last assist. I'm kind of using my entire pull complex. I don't care, last by-seps, everything. On the way up, I try to preferentially activate my last, which really kind of is like a mini eccentric accentuated overload training. Because if I just use my last alone, try to hover effect of that as to get up. I probably get a few reps. This way I get more reps and each one of them is essentially overloaded to my last. I think it on the margin may do a little something extra. I'm sure some of you are watching this video. When you're like, I do a bunch of pull-ups. I do a bunch of assist pull-ups. The only thing left is cable rows. We'll talk about those in a bit. It's like three exercises, sort of. Maybe like two and a half. It's not exciting training. It's not. Not in this case. But the way Jared and I construct our understanding of training is, we want results. What the best possible long-term results. And if according to our knowledge of sport science, and our experience and feedback, multiple straight sets, close to failure, of the same or similar movements, seem to give us the best results, that's what we're doing. Is it maximally entertaining for the viewer for ourselves, using a bunch of different machines, different angles? Fuck man, no shade, but I saw someone I follow on the internet. Did a back work out? It was like five by 12. It's seemingly like six different movements. It's like, holy shit. It's just a lot of different moving around. Then it was short rest and it wasn't close to fail. But it was definitely more exciting to watch, as a viewer if you watch that back work, you're like, well, this is different stuff going on. You could learn a lot from it, different angles, different machines, or uses. Use some of the same machines, but very different pulling styles. It's kind of like, you know, take, it's like a car commercial. When you see a car, it drives in the city, it picks up the kids, it drives in the country, it goes up and down mountain roads, it picks up a goat, you know what I'm sure like that. Drives by a lake, drives on the sun, and you're like, wow, this car can do a lot. For sure, when you actually buy the car, you're using it to go to work and drop your kids off at school. You're probably not hitting any fucking mountain ranges on your way. And that's the difference between driving a car for utility versus driving a car to show off. So our workouts are very utilitarian in the sense that they're purely utilitarian. The utility from them is maximum muscle growth accretion over time. You can learn a little bit at least to like them and not me to embrace it. To see five sets of a slip-up on your program and be like, I like this. And someone's like, really, it's the same thing. I like the fact that I plug in and really dig into the monotony and the pain and the brutality. And I know I'm going to get the best results. And I learn to like the thing that gives me the best results. I'll just get into this straight. Listen, I'm under hand. I'll overhand, but I love this part. It's really, I don't know, clicks. You guys like that science? Just fuck clicks, bro. Just fuck clear my back, clicking. Fifty five pounds for Jared Feather. 120 pounds for who? His daddy. Me. Many of you don't know this. Two things. One, Jared Feather is my literal biological son. Two, and I know this is crazy. It's a good public access. You don't have a burst. I do, and I don't have a father on it. No, no, no, that's not sure your mama drove it that crayon. Four sets on this. My reps are in the 15 to 20 range. Whatever the app says, what I did last time, plus a wrap. So that's, that's going to be fun. Focus on technique. Jared has a back injury. This kind of hurt him a little bit. So he might go do some inverted rows of machine rows or something. So, when I'm doing this exercise, there's a push my hips back really far. I try to lean forward a little. I get the ultra deep stretch and then arch, but not lean back. So I shit my spine as perpendicular to the ground. Gentle touch the tummy and then pull in that assner. Come up my back to round at the bottom. Pulling all the fibers out deep stretch. Huge growth drive and then back again. It's not a lot of weight. It's not very intense. It's not systemic or fatigue. It's jumping up. This is what's apped about Electronic Shea. Ahhh... Ow. Alan. Are your notes thin? Those are my biggest muscles already. My dick shaped directors. But bigger is better. 17 repetitions. No, JK-16. This is rather. Back as pumped, plumped, human swole, joint pain is great. Man, everything was like vertical pulling for high reps, this week. But yeah, wait, uh, 245 pounds this morning. They're about pretty lean. So, similar to good place, have another few weeks left of kind of very slow massing. And then after that, it's a little active rest phase about two weeks. Contest diet, contest prep. You're going to be targeting July, mid-July. Gonna do master's nationals. And Jared is, uh, what are you competing in next? Jared Died's down and once he gets lean, he picks a show, which I actually think it's hard. I'm going to do a super awesome, to be able to use the alphabet of the harpy training app long time in the works. And, uh, I just kind of sweet to be able to like see everything you need to do. You can add it whatever you want. reps and load after the first week. I'll pre-program for you for the progression. Do you don't even have to think like, oh, should I attend pounds or whatever it does for you? And you just hit the reps in the weight that it says. It's kind of freeing. Because I know because I wrote the algorithm. I know it's a good decision. And then I can't use like excuses. Oh, well, I don't know. That's what it says. Should be able to do this if progression is good. It's a pretty liberated train like that. We'll let you guys know when that happens after sale. It'll be $150,000 second to use, but you can save big by getting the year for $3 trillion. I'll hit you with those prices again later. Put a little less. Anyway, that's been the training folks. This is like, this is what our training really looks like. No bells, no whistles, minimal renting. Every now and again, a pathetic scream for help. You know, like the things you do in the dungeon with your uh, misdress or silver daddy. Yes, yes. Anyway, Jared, any wise words before we let the folks go? You can get your job, Mike. What was that? You can get your job.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pursation. And today's BS video topic is that insulin makes you fat or does it? Let's get into the details. What's the claim here? Well, insulin signals fat storage. And thus you should avoid insulin-secreting foods, all of which at the top end are carbohydrates. And this is the carbohydrate insulin model of obesity. People eat too many carbs. Insulin is secredent on moss. Insulin is lipogenic. It leads to the creation of fat stores. And it also removes carbohydrates from your bloodstream. And then you don't have anymore. So you're hungry again. So eat more carbs. And then just get stored as fat. And so on, the mayoring around continues to be way 600 pounds. You have no idea what happened. All I ate is one apple. You tell yourself that you sound a lot better when you say that. There is some theoretical support for the idea that this might be the case. Yes, insulin does in fact trigger lipogenesis. It does trigger the creation of fat. It absolutely does shuttle nutrients from the bloodstream into fat cells, where they are used to build more fat molecules. The part that usually folks leave out is that insulin also shuttles nutrients into muscle cells. And many other cells of your body that also build muscle. Yes, get to that in a bit. And insulin absolutely can under some circumstances cause so much of your blood glucose to be removed from the blood into the cells that you get a radical rebound, hunger spike. And it causes you consume even more carbohydrates building that positive feedback loop to get you to 600 pounds. Now, that is precisely where the support for this idea ends and the theoretical problems actually begin. First, if you are not in a calorie surplus, that is eating more calories than you burn. It is very difficult, perhaps impossible for insulin to create net increases in your body fat and body weight, where would it get that stuff from? Insulin doesn't seem to reduce your physical activity levels. So if it can't tip the scales of thermogenic balance, not really sure how it's supposed to build more net tissue, the only way to get to 600 pounds is to eat a lot of food, which insulin doesn't really itself have an effect on. Insulin in healthy people plays no favorites as to which cells it transports nutrients into another problem. So insulin is actually very anabolic towards muscle tissue. It helps muscle grow and it helps fat grow. It helps everything grow, but the key to that growth in the long term with muscle and with that is a caloric surplus. So you've got to eat more food than your body needs in order to make insulin this very powerful mediator of actual gains. Now, if you say to yourself, look, carbs are very lipogenic and the insulin that comes with him is part of the problem. Every time you eat carbohydrates, your body secretes insulin, the carbs cause fat gain, the insulin cause extra fat gain, the two of them combined are like the Batman and Robin of if Batman and Robin instead of fighting crime just made people fat. So you say to yourself, well, I like the old 1960s Batman and Robin just fine, but I'm going to eat more fats and fewer carbs. I'm even going to load low carb and I'm going to have a lot of dietary fat and very little dietary carbohydrate to prevent the insulin or carbs should being turned into fat. And then you think about that for about three seconds longer and you think, why would my body have to turn the carbs into fat? If it just got fat in the diet, it could take that fat in pretty much directly put it into fat cells and make me fat that way. And then you would answer that question in the affirmative, yes, actually, would do that. So it turns out when people do low carbohydrate diets to try to reduce the impact of insulin and carbohydrates on adiposity and the creation on the lipogenesis creation of fat, they have absolutely succeeded only to replace that carbohydrate with fat in their diets. And now that fat directly goes into fat cells and just makes you fat. Requiring no conversion I might add and it makes you just as fat to eat fats as carbs. This is a matter of fact by small margin, fat is more lipogenic than carbohydrates. So the low carb diet where eat lots of fats, that doesn't seem to work all that at well. Now, those are the theoretical problems. What problems do we run into when trying to say insulin makes you fat in the real world? Well, a couple. What hold out a second? Why am I doing work on my computer? Windows suggests that I can explore Microsoft movies and TV watching anime, horror, action, and more. And it even asks me if I want to launch it now or later, Microsoft, you know where I want more of pop-ups. In any case, Microsoft, you're great. Last time I talked smack about Bill Gates, I got a muscle cramp on this very channel. I won't do that. All right, here we go. Observe problems. First, insulin usually doesn't raise hunger levels. Insulin spikes do that if you inject exogenous insulin. If you are producing endogenous insulin, which almost everyone who says that insulin causes fat is talking about endogenous internally produced insulin, and internally produced insulin seems to usually have a negative effect on hunger. It creates a feeling of fullness. It just doesn't reliably make you hungrier unless you get some really exotic conditions. So that whole idea of a insulin is how you get hungry all the time, just doesn't seem to be true. Second, we can test this hypothesis directly. The claim is that via the insulin mediated pathways, high carbohydrate diets, which make the secretion of lots of insulin and necessity, cause more fat gain. We could just go and test that out. Yet 20 people to eat high fat diets or low carbs, yet 20 people to eat high carb diets or low fats, and see who gets fat after three months. It turns out there's basically no difference. The all of the studies taken together of which there has been dozens and dozens of studies conducted in various ways, different designs, different populations. It turns out that if you keep calories roughly the same, the amount of fat lost, gained, or maintained is also roughly the same. Whether you eat a diet mostly of carbohydrates, mostly of fats, or anything in between. So it turns out that high insulin exposure versus low insulin exposure, high carb diets for low carb diets, don't predictably lead to any differences in weight gain or fat gain. That just dukes that hypothesis right out of the water. I mean, you can speculate all you want about the mechanisms, but if the thing you're speculating is simply not true in practice, you gotta take a step back and understand that you did something wrong. For example, if I can speculate that I can beat up Tyson Fury in a boxing match because of all kinds of theoretical reasons. You know, I'm probably stronger than Tyson Fury. I'm probably younger than he is. You know, I'm a spy, I'm a little smart. It's a real, a really good idea to be smart boxing. You can break where people go. And then I get the ring and he knocks me the fuck out 10 times in a row and I do nothing about it, 10 times in a row. You got to wonder, you might have made a mistake. In the ultimate test of my claim that I can beat up Tyson Fury is actually getting in the ring and putting them gloves on. So that's how science works in study after study after study. All the studies taken together and counted separately. Show's that insulin and carbohydrates, paired together simply do not cause more bite effect gains than just good old fashion fats. Yikes. All right. So we can just throw that out. In addition, there is an idea that if foods cause a lot of insulin secretion, then they're going to cause a rebound in low carbohydrate presence in the blood and a crazy rebound hunger and then more insulin and more hunger and more carbohydrates and you get fat. That's an interesting idea could be true that if misses an entire component and entire signaling pathway and entire hormonal access in your body called the glucogon access and glucogon is a hormone that directly opposes insulin. If you have a lot of carbohydrates in your blood, insulin is secreted in order to take them and put them in the cells. If you have very little carbohydrate in the blood, glucogon tells the liver to secrete more carbohydrates into the blood to keep blood-shooker normal. How do we know that this happens like 100 years of physiology? What about if we take high insulin-ergic foods, foods that secrete a ton of insulin, even for how much carbohydrate they have? Foods like yogurt and skim milk for example. You would expect someone to eat yogurt just sit around for half an hour and then get hypoglycemia get cladding and confused and hungry for carbs and sweaty and then all of a sudden they're passing out but in reality what happens is glucogon kicks in and then a blood sugar stays perfectly normal and there is no rebound hunger effect from getting a fucking container of yogurt. Can you imagine even saying that to someone like being a lot of yogurt so I'm starving. Said no one ever would have preposterous bit of nonsense. Lastly, it's the glycemic index that's the problem right? The glycemic index tells you how much a food raises blood sugar and if it raises blood sugar ton and you're a relatively healthy person even if not, it is going to raise insulin a ton. You got the carbs, you got the insulin, it's a huge spike all the bad things that's supposed to make you fat. Here's the problem with that. The most lipogenic foods, the foods that we know from a study after a study caused the most fat gain are not even high glycemic index foods. For the amount of food that you're eating, they don't even secrete that much insulin and absolutely do not do it rapidly. The appearance of carbohydrate in the bloodstream from those foods is slow and steady like you would have with brown rice but it sure shouldn't have brown rice that is making people fat. What is it? Pizza, ice cream, cookies, etc. They are the most lipogenic foods because they have two things going for them. One, they have a ton of calories for every bite. Two, they are delicious and you just keep wanting to eat them and you do and then you get fat and you look in the mirror. You're being to cry. If it works best for your tears, your friends may judge you but should even your parents judge you. Your spouse just isn't looking at you the same way anymore. Mr. Cookie, he's never had anything against you. Give me a hug. He says, put me in your mouth. He says, look, if anyone other than Mr. Cookie is saying, put me in your mouth, you've got to report them other times to the police. That aside, low glycemic index foods, all of them are pizza ice cream cookies, they're low GI foods. They do not secrete a ton of insulin. The carbohydrate in the limonol is unable to describe why these foods are so lipogenic but the model of, well, foods are tasty and you eat more of them and they have high calories and they eat more of them and they have high calories and that's how you get fat is absolutely able to explain that and that is the food palitability reward hypothesis by Stefan Gene and it just happens to be the truth as far as we can tell for now. I put more stock into that. All right, so how the hell knowing all of this and knowing the BS behind it is such a common myth. I have a couple of ideas. One is because people need a scapegoat that allows them away out, that allows them some convenient way to squiggle away from the imposing responsibility of actually eating well. I don't want to have to start measuring my portions. I don't want to have to start exerting self-control. I just want to have zero fucking control and eat tons of carbs, blame the carbs and then have zero control and eat tons of fats and still not was weighed and then maybe blame the fats and the reality is that people get fat on junk foods, not dextrous, power or fruits. You never look at someone who's eating brown rice and apples and think man, what an idiot. He's going to gain so much fat via the carbohydrate insulin model. That's nonsense. They see some of needing cookies and french fries and taking the fries and dipping them into cookie chunks. Woo, cookie dough, french fries do not take my idea. That's my idea. Then you probably think they might be getting fat or sooner or later. All that aside, any attempt to duck that reality to try to blame insulin and thus carbs is as the great Arnold Schwarzenegger would inevitably say bullshit. I'll see you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NS�psPiridization, our video today is in the BS series and it is intermittent fasting and longevity BS. Let's get into it. Not a super long video, but I think one in which we can all learn a little bit of something about ourselves. Here's the deal. Point number one. Yes, it is true that eating only one or two meals per day may have a small effect on boosting how long you could live a K-A-A longevity. But at this juncture in early 2023, when we made this video, it's not so clear that that's definitely the case. And if the effect turns out to be real, which it probably is, it's almost certainly going to be a very, very small effect on longevity thus. If you eat five or six meals a day, calorie controlled, same lifestyle versus if you want our two meals a day, you're not adding like decades to your life or anything like that. It could even be just months. It could be a year or something like that in a very good case scenario. So it's not a big deal first. A lot of people think it's a big deal and then probably wrong. Number two, the big longevity booster that is mostly affected by diet is other than just eating healthy and making sure you're not eating all kinds of nasty toxic shit that fucks you up is being at the low end of the healthy range of body mass index. That's right. The people that live the longest are people that are of a normal body weight, but on the skinnier side of things. It is true that below a certain body mass index, people actually have a lowered longevity. But that is the statistical artifact. In most cases, because they measure people that are skinny from cancer treatment or drug addiction or other comorbidities. If you factor that out, the optimal body mass index at which you could be in order to live the longest is around 20. If you look that up, that's a pretty skinny person. Not definitely skinny, but on the skinnier end of normal. How you get there as long as it's through a healthy way, being that it's a healthy diet that gets you there and being that you did good amount physical activity, that is going to be the big differentiator for how long you live genetics and getting hit by a boss's side. It's not so much the six meals a day versus one meal a day. That's a tiny potential difference as far as we know now. The big difference is can you maintain a lean, relatively active physique in any way that is sustainable to you and involves healthy eating practices, which means eating three, four, five, six or even one meal a day. At the end of the day, I implore you. And if you're not doing it, your friends and colleagues might be so go yell at them, stop trying to hack shit. Eat better exercise way a little bit less and you're going to get almost all the benefits that you can. I would also implore you to watch out for upcoming pharmacological advances in anti-aging medicine and age reversal because it is coming the next 10 years are going to be really exciting in all probability and that stuff is going to make the biggest deal of anything. But until that happens, eat really healthy, do plenty of physical activity, stay on the leaner and lighter side of things and that is your huge weapon set for living as long as possible. I would also say have a career or interest you're very passionate about, surround yourself with loving friends and family and lots of social interaction, get plenty of sleep and don't do anything that's too stressful for too long and starts to wear you out, makes you want that to kill yourself. That's a bad deal on longevity. Not the suicide partner, necessarily, but the part of insanely high stress with no respin. And sure, if you want to do intermittent fasting and that works for you, that's totally great. But if you think that with high stress, shitty social relationships, not enough sleep, too many calories in a shitty body composition that eating one meal a day is some ticket to longevity, that's a whole lot of, it's a whole lot of what a what was that term like, forgot. Oh yeah, bullshit. See you guys next time.

There have been extrapolations from rodent studies on very deep mechanisms of how protein can potentially activate certain pathways that reduce lifespan. We've studied just godless numbers of people at this point, studied a lot about their protein and takes in their lifestyles, and are now having really really good data because some of these folks are quite old and start to grow, unfortunately, of like, well, are the people that have eaten the most protein over the lifespan dying the soonest? Hey folks, got to my cure for the RP Strength YouTube channel where you go to look at RP Strengths and YouTube, or something? Anyway, is too much protein killing you? Yes, stop eating protein now and start throwing it up if you had it just recently. No, no, no, no, no, hold on a little while. I'm reading the slides wrong. It looks like there is a contention that I thought was already dead, but it's not, and not even close. So the contention is that protein could be bad for you, and a lot of people still believe it. To put it more formally, according to some researchers, even, just lay people, over the years, protein that is high in your diet in high amounts, consistently, especially, might be destroying your kidneys, might be leaching away calcium from your bones and making your bones more brittle. It might be increasing diabetes risk, and it might be increasing all cause mortality on average, and thus reducing how long you live, which is really what killing you part means. And the thing is that we've heard this stuff for years. An article here there, a new story here there, a high school nurse's claim about you shut me into much protein. High school nurses, you guys are great, but some of you have not updated your insight on protein and creatine and few other things in a long time, but I don't mean to zoom in on on school nurses just as an interesting example. Kind of tail-estrates, kind of all around. And definitely people's parents and all that stuff, even your doctor might think these things. But as the esteemed mental hencilman's who is an amazing following Instagram and a phenomenal follow on YouTube, a highly recommend him, pointed out recently in one of his Instagram posts, a group of researchers decided to actually ask the question of, okay, look, for real, though, how true are these claims under real microscope about protein being bad for your health and of variety of ways? And these fine folks authored one, bad ass review paper, which we're going to be looking at today. Let's take a look at it and see if you should be buying life insurance soon. Ooh. So the study is called the harms of high protein intake. It's a really fancy study name. The harms of high protein intake, conjectured, postulated, claimed and presumed, but shown, maybe. And so this is by Stephen French and colleagues, phenomenal, phenomenal review. So let's start off just by talking about what the big mystery is. Like, what is the study trying to resolve? Protein has become kind of the nutritional hero of marketing departments in Jim Broulor over the past many years. And yet for more than 60 years at this point, academic papers and popular articles alike have at times and places warned that too much protein will do all kinds of really bad things to it'll record. Kidneys, it'll eat calcium for your bones, it'll shorten your life, tip you into diabetes and so on and so forth. And the authors of this study basically say that like these are conjectured harms, people think they're likely harms through reasoning. But there is a striking lack of convincing direct human data, which doesn't mean that these things are wrong. It just means we can't be so confident that they're correct. And the also what these study authors have shown before writing their review is that in some cases, the evidence for protein's harm actually leans in the other direction. So it's not only that for some things, intent bone growth, that protein doesn't really harm bone growth, it seems like, but it actually is a few studies, a pretty convincing ones show that protein might enhance bone growth. Okay, so like if we're claiming the protein's bad for your bones, but the net aggregate of literature as far as these guys can just vibe out, says that shit is for sure not true and it might be true in the opposite direction, we have a little bit of a prop. So what these guys are doing is asking you very important central question here, any of these alleged harms, any of these alleged harms actually supported by solid science, or we kind of like shadow boxing with urban legends here and it's actually nothing real here and we're just besing ourselves, which I might add, does happen all the time. It happens all the time. Do you guys remember like, Fesca, you remember 5G? It was supposed to like do bad things to you. Yeah, and it turns out like all of the evidence over the entire course of studying electromagnetic wave interactions, the human brain of those distances show that absolutely nothing happens and we're like, so why didn't we bother with the 5G at all? This is super ubiquitous. A lot of people think stuff is harmful, it's not, and a lot of people think stuff is not harmful when it totally is. Q drinking all the way up until a few years ago when people really started saying, yeah, that seems like it's pretty bad. So in other words, if you zoom out from single mechanistic studies that say, oh, this mechanism could in theory and a big actual person over the course of their life hurt them and honestly cherry picked anecdotes as well do real world data show that high protein intakes are dangerous in healthy people, in healthy people, but sometimes folks like Wally know, in kidney disease, you can't have too much protein, right? Okay? But do you told your 15 year old kid that wanted a mass gaining powder in your doctor's office last appointment that he shouldn't be having too much protein is bad for kidneys? Right? Does that kid have kidney disease? Doctors like, well, no. All right. So when we zoom out, what is the deal with protein? Let's take a look at how these folks want about studying this because boy, boy, did they get into it? They looked across more than 60 years of scientific published literature. That's a lot. That's highly unusual. And all this literature was in high protein diets in adults. Very specific. And it is what's called a narrative review so they collected a bunch of data and they did a lot of inference about it and then they kind of draw a conclusion. It's not based on quantitative analysis, which is a downside because quantitative analysis can be more rigorous. But it's also an upside because sometimes quantitative analysis can show you things in aggregate that aren't even really true individually or shouldn't be assumed from the data. But the math stops math in super well and then you end up with wacky results. So narrative review at least is a review that can do first and can really, really instruct if further quantitative reviews like metanalysis and comprehensive literature reviews can be more effectual if you even need to answer the question still because sometimes narrative reviews like you read like 18 studies and 16 of them say this thing works this way and two of them were like, we're not sure. You really have to do a comprehensive literature review to be like this thing. Probably works like this, man. It's not rocket science. If something's there more nuanced and more controversial, then you need more of a fine tooth comb. And what they did was they basically first took a look through all this research and they identified the most frequently sighted harm domains like bones and kidney disease and so on and so forth. They took all of the evidence and they raided it on its strength and consistency. Like how strong is the evidence that your kidneys get hurt by a lot of protein consumption? It is a consistently just to keep coming up or is it like, well, one study back in 92 found it. No one's been able to replicate it. Even though the 92 study was really, really strong. And then they highlighted common design flaws and there were many. Some of them include very short trials. You really can't even understand what's going on yet. The the the the experiment was way too short to conclude much. Confounding like sometimes people will say, oh, the protein causes weight gain in fat gain and you're like, well, isn't that just just people who eat more calories and they should also tend to eat more protein. And that actually is the answer. So calories can found the protein situation. There's a reverse causality where you think something is the protein is causing some kind of misleague malfunction. But it turns out that the malfunction is actually causing an aggregate series of effects that end up being like, oh, these people also because of that tend to eat more food. Like the dysregulation of appetite due to obesity causes people to eat more of everything and then the eat more protein. And so they say, uh, protein causes obesity. No, no, no, obesity causes you eat more protein. Like really, never heard that. Like, well, yeah, Scott, have you ever seen people who are obese? Be like, hey, I'm overweight and I mean, in way too many calories. But I got a cut this protein down. That's ridiculous. If anything, would eat more protein because they're like, why it's not like healthier? Like, yeah, then what you're eating, but at a hypercoloric diet, you still get super unhealthy. So the worst cause alley is something really, really have to be careful about. And kind of egregious animal to human leaps. Sometimes cell to human leaps. They'll say, okay, in this one pathway, we found that excessive amounts of protein can cause this one pathway to action away that if it happened and every cell of the human body for 70 years, it would reduce your lifespan. Like, okay, so how do you guys know that? Like, well, we study like some yeast cells. Okay. So don't eat too much protein. This is going to kill you. Like, well, hold on a second. Does that scale to humans? We looked into it. It doesn't, by the way. And sometimes they just don't put that part down. And so they're, uh, massive animal or cell, um, or like, table top science experiment leaps to, oh, in actual humans, it's cool to make leaps like that as conjecture. But sometimes when you're conjecture is tested as in this article, uh, it doesn't come up to mustard. And so the health outcomes they tend to scrutinize here were things like kidney function, bone density, osteoporosis risk, type two diabetes, metabolic markers of just metabolic health overall. And then broad longevity indicators like all causing mortality and a lifespan proxies. Like, if you have high blood pressure, you're probably not going to move as long. So they test things like that. So one and so forth. And there are, I would say four key insights that we can get from what these researchers found and they're a very big deal. Get ready. Here's the meat and potatoes folks. In kidney stuff, in healthy people, glomerular filtration rates rise transiently with more proteins. So they go up as you have more protein. You have less protein they go back down. This is a totally normal adaptive response. There's actually no way for this not to occur because if you put more amino acid, a byproduct digestion throughput through kidneys, they have to work harder. What the hell is you think that they're doing? But long term decline in renal function is not demonstrated. In any of these studies remotely convincingly, some of this research is 60 years old. If protein is hurting people's kidneys would probably know about it by now. And it looks like it just seemingly doesn't do that, which is a very, very interesting good piece of news. Next number two, bone stuff. The popular idea of that, so proteins are composed of amino acids. So they're a sometic. And they said, okay, increase in acidification. We know in some situations and contexts can lead to bone loss, which is true. But that story goes on to say, okay, some amino acids, like, hey, acid, okay, bone loss. Okay. So protein causes bone loss, which I think you might have heard before. I've certainly heard before. The first time I heard about it, Scott, I was like out of thin air. I was like, what? And then, yeah, it's not bad for your bones. And I was just like, you know, when you think you're an expert in someone gives you like an accusation or hypothesis that you didn't even plan for, you were like, that that's a thing I should be caring about. Like, it's someone's like, you're eating cherries and they're like, whoa, whoa, you're going to go blind. You're like, I am like, oh, don't you know, like, cherry, you'd make you go blind. If some chemical, you're like, you know, that that was an accusation. I guess that's a thing. And so that story ignores the fact that you're everything that you eat gets buffered by the gut. And it turns out that the amino acids are surprised and a ballic and help the osteoblasts, which are the cells that grow bone, actually do a better job and grow themselves and thus grow more bone. And long-term epidemiologic data on hundreds of thousands of people over decades and decades shows neutral or even positive associations of protein intake with bone mineral density. So that means you can forget about protein for the time being as a scientist, you have to say, maybe we'll find something different later on down the line. It's a very good chance that protein doesn't hurt your kidneys. It's a very good chance it doesn't hurt your bones with me so far. Okay. What about diabetes and metabolic risk? I have a protein was healthy. What the hell is this? Observational links between total protein and diabetes, which they are, there are absolutely links correlation. People who, on average in the United States, muster European, the most protein, not very small groups of people like fitness people, but over the whole general population, also tend to have the worst kidney and metabolic disease risk outcomes. And when you look at those links, they actually disappear or reverse when two things are controlled for one at a positive. So if you're really, really fat, then it is true that excess protein causes more dysfunction because it's just contributes to excess calories and makes you even fatter and all you already have all these bad things. And because you wait through in your pounds, you have a higher appetite, you eat more of everything, you eat more protein. So go, hey, so these guys eat more protein and they have worse kidneys. But the same exact relationship is seen with diet coke. Scott, have you ever seen that diet soda and obesity direct correlation? Of course. Yeah, like they also diet soda, the people drink diet soda or the fat. It's like, yeah, that's why they're drinking diet soda, because they're fat. They won't want to be fat anymore. It's like saying like, you know, the people that have cast under legs have the highest fraction of broken legs. It's the cast that break their legs. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, they got broken legs first. Then the cast got put on, which is why it's a really high correlation. You get fat first, your shit, not diet soda is not number one priority there. And then when you're fat, you start to get in as an offense people when you're fat or you start to get in more diet soda to try to help it. But for maybe forever, for a long time, you're still fat. So the correlation is massive. And genetically, like whatever skinny people they don't drink diet soda, sometimes they don't drink soda. And also sometimes they have like one Coca-Cola classic that's not diet per day. And it just doesn't make them fat. Is it's not enough calories? So same thing with proteins. Like when you're, you know, when you're big and and you go to, I was going to say Logan Paul's steakhouse. That wasn't it. Scott, what's one of those roadside steakhouses on the freeway? Texas roadhouse. When you go to Texas roadhouse and you're, you're a big, some bitch, you ain't going to order like one little teeny steak. You're going to have a big steak and you're going to have a lot of protein. And so people think it haunts the protein that's making you diabetic and out of shape, absolutely not true. And when calorie intake is controlled, the entire relationship goes away as expected. Right? And interestingly enough, intervention trials where they take two groups of people. And the reflat dannacle and they give one group some diet and they give another group that's a diet is essentially identical. But also just has more protein in it and less fats and carbs. More protein in a diet over months of time shows better glazing the control during weight loss. So it actually protein, especially in a weight loss context, has an anti diabetic effect. I mean, imagine a few thought protein increased your risk for diabetes and you go to the store to try to shop for your new weight loss and a diabetes reversal diet. I don't know if you're buying, I guess veggies and stuff which is really good, but like you're leaving out of thing that can help you in every major respect and does not increase diabetes or metabolic risk. Protein does not increase diabetes or metabolic risk. It arguably reduces it in context of weight loss diet. Number four, longevity. This is the big one. This is maybe why you clicked on this video. There have been extrapolations from rodent studies on very deep mechanisms of how protein can potentially activate certain pathways that reduce lifespan. Absolutely. But these haven't mapped cleanly under human cohorts. We're just not seeing the same thing with humans. And prospective studies simply fail to show shorter lifespan at the protein intake common to athletes. So we've studied just godless numbers of people at this study. A lot about their protein intake and their lifestyles and are now having really really good data because some of these folks are quite old and start in a croak, unfortunately, of like, well, are the people that have eaten the most protein over the lifespan's dying the soonest and body weight and calorie confine it? No. The answer is just no. So if you suspect that protein is somehow making real people in the real world live less long, you have a very big problem of explaining it does not seem to be the case in real people living less long in the real world. So sometimes mechanisms are awesome. Sometimes they don't peed around. This is one of those that just like just didn't make any sense. The common thread here that is that many protein is harmful narratives and the papers that push those narratives not to say that they're like willfully ignorant or stupid or something like that. These are folks just giving the best opinions. Many of these papers rely on surrogate mechanisms like M. Tour activation for longevity, which is very, very slight relation and they don't corroborate clinical endpoints. It's like, okay, did these people actually demonstrate weaker bones after 16 weeks of eating higher protein? Wow, we didn't look into that. Okay. You can't be super sure. Or are they studying them on populations that pre-existing disease? Like if you take obese, overweight or obese overweight people with metabolic dysregulation, then they're getting going to find some wacky stuff in there that just might not apply to the vast majority of people who eat protein and ask about it, which are people like me and like you and maybe you've like Scott the video guy who just are normal folks trying to get their protein going so they can do a little bit more swollen, pump a little bit more blood into those veins and have that one girl by the Squire Rack notice the senpai a little more. Did I do a good job of the do anime thing? Scott, you love anime. What do you think? I'm currently looking for a wife who. Yes, my man, excellent, excellent. Um, and so the authors actually described the evidential stack of protein harms as wanting and that's science speak for, uh, being a little curt and, uh, having a few laws at the a few people's expense. So what does this mean for me, you everyone protein loving fitness people and lifters the world over the safety envelope looks very roomy. They have tested months long studies where people ate up to two grams per pound per day and a per pound of body weight. So people will eat 200 pounds of eating like 400 grams of protein per day for months and months and months and months and they had no adverse hepatic, which is liver or a renal, which is kidney or lipid, which is blood fat and overall health changes when they were doing resistance training as adults. So the idea that like all of those proteins going to kill you it's like, well, share a shit must take over multiple months and there's no directionality to it taking months and months. Let me give you an alternate example. When you take higher doses of metabolic steroids, multiple months of you taking them here, blood work just gets worse and worse and worse until it stabilizes it really bad. And really bad blood work means you're slowly decaying under the hood, even if it stays a certain level of bad, you run that over years and years, you're going to have a bad time. And so you can say, okay, uh, because there's no kill you in a few months, but directionally they make your body so unhealthy that they're going to kill you sooner later with protein. We don't even see that directionality. So if someone's like, well, protein is going to kill you eventually and you're like, okay, so this is something that happens over like years. We simply cannot detect over months. Nobody really ever answers that question by the way. Now, there's still a performance upside and how comes upside, higher protein diets support lean mass retention during fat loss dieting, the support muscle mass gains, and they are just awesome and not unhealthy for you. So you're okay, higher protein diets are awesome, but they seemingly don't have all these downsides that people think, this is already great. Now, before I leave you guys, I have a few kind of practical guardrails here to talk about. If you already have kidney disease, you probably know that, stay close to medical follow up and all the state doesn't healthy kidneys. You have kidney diseases between you and your doctor to negotiate how much protein is a good idea for you. It's less of a negotiation or more of your doctor telling you what to do. Always, as always, keep the rest of your diet healthy. Keep them, you know, veggies and fruits high, micro nutrients really high, fiber high, stay hydrated and that way, you know, take care of your gut health, take care of your whole body. So just because you have protein in your food, doesn't mean it makes it healthy food. You can also have healthy food with protein and then you're really winning on all grounds. And of course, calorie still matter. Like if you have a crap load of protein in your diet, then plus the carbs plus the fats, if you're gaining weight and getting on healthy from that, you can't be like, well, it's just protein, you know, like, yes, but it all adds up. So other than that, the bottom line for us, Jim folks, is that barring pre-existing pathology, like you have actual kidney disease, eating anywhere in the gram per pound, plus or minus a considerable amount range is not only safe under current evidence, but actually maybe low-key beneficial in a few ways other than making you more checked. And so amazing, amazing paper by these folks, and a huge round of applause because this is a really awesome study. And if you guys want to go popmet it, it's really easy to find just to search terms earlier. And Scott, can we throw this in the description, maybe? Yes. And so the the study is something that like, you know, if you have a concerned parent in your social circle, if you have, you know, a concerned medical professionals, or even just that on to uncle at dinner that just keep talking that shit. Like, oh, that prime dean is bad for you. Just send in the popmed link and and then, you know, it's an opinion piece by me on YouTube is one thing. You can send in this video and they're like, okay, that man's head is shaped weird and I don't want to hear about his stupid bullshit anymore. But a peer-reviewed article that is kind of off on guard in the best review article in the space, oh, what's a different kind of arguments? Scott, have you ever seen anyone successfully, like a regular person successfully, argue back from a comprehensive review of the literature? No, absolutely not. They just kind of shut up and don't say anything for a while and pretend they never had that opinion. So send this article out. These guys need massive recognition that do an amazing work. As always, huge thanks to OpenAI for their suite of AI products, which helps me make these lectures and record time and helps me with research. Massive shout out to the RP Diet Coach app and the RPI Portrophy apps. Then, saying put that protein to good use and get Jack. Check those out, link in the description. And we'll see you guys next time. Oh, wow, I'm going to some protein, celebrate.

The idea that all of the muscles in your body can grow best on just a few sets a week is on principle wrong. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NSW. How does high intensity training, AK, hit, measure up to modern sport science? Is it a good idea? Is it a bad idea? Or is it the worst idea ever? Curious. So real quick, what the hell is hit training? It stands for high intensity training. And I think it was invented in the summer, in the 70s by a gentleman named Arthur Jones, who you could say sarcastically invented it to sell exercise machines, and which he did. He made great, he was the guy who fronted the nodalous line, which was some of the best machines in history, so Kudos to him. And it was popularized in the 1980s and beyond by gentleman named Mike Menser, who was quite good bodybuilder or not the best, never on the Olympia, but was excellent. And he really, really bought into the hit philosophy. What is hit though? What is its ethos? It's difficult to debate hit with true adherence of hit because they move goal posts a lot, which a lot of us do in debate, so I don't blame them specifically for it. Because if you say this is hit training, they'll say, well, this really isn't hit training. This other thing is hit training. And the other thing is hit training and other hit proponents would be like, man, I don't know, the other third thing is hit training. So we could just do broad strokes, which almost no one will agree with, compared to conventional training, hit prescribes at least three differences. One way higher relative effort, taking sets too failure usually or beyond, whereas regular training may say, oh, three reps shy, two reps shy, one reps shy, zero reps shy failure or beyond is all good stuff in context, hit says no, no, no, no failure and or beyond forced reps dropsets stuff like that. Secondly, hit training tries to minimize the volume of training. They'll do only a few sets per session, not ten sets or something. The third lead compared to conventional training, hit training usually reduces frequency often opting for training a muscle only one time a week as opposed to multiple times a week. So as an example, normal quad training might be like, you know, you do six sets of quads, twice a week, that's 12 sets total and you know, our on average two reps and reserve for the whole mesocycle, that seems like great training to me, whereas hit training might be more like you do three sets of quads one time per week, but all three sets are taken to negative five RIR, which means after you went to failure, your buddy stripped some plates off and you did another five reps like the on failure, like an instant drops at or you did, you know, whatever number of reps to failure and let's say it's with some kind of cable sort of pressing machine, your buddy helped you on the concentric and then let go on the eccentric and you wrote it down five reps beyond failure, something like that or at the bottom you did some bottom stretch partials where you can't lock it out anymore, but you did down here just just moving as much as you can stretching as much as you can until you just can't move at all total system failure with good technique, that's something that hit training would look much more like versus conventional training. As always, there are upsides and downsides to every system in every method. So click beta side, thank you Scott the video guy and team, there will not be a part of this where I'm like it, training stupid, and I have feelings about it. No, no, no, no. Hit training is valuable because it has some things going forward and is less valuable because it has others. So let's parse them. Hit training has some very serious upsides. First, you don't have a lot of sets to do. Your opportunity for growth is limited to just a few sets per muscle group per week or whatever interpretation of hit you're using like the one during the HUs T did like 14 sets on average per muscle group per week, which is quite a few, but it's fewer than you would have done and it's fewer than you would have done if you had done a different program, instead of hit. And the constraint to the smaller number of sets vastly incentivizes you to have the highest set quality possible. Like you got three sets of leg press to make shit happen. Each of those three sets, there's no mail-in, nothing. It better be great technique and super high relative effort so the sets are ultra high quality because you don't got that many sets. You can't just do else at a time that felt okay. Oh, they don't at a time that felt better. I didn't know I said a tad I wasn't really paying attention. Find one last set of 10 and then this time I'll work on it. Hit makes you bring it, which is an awesome practice everyone should be doing anyway. Hit also takes a recovery really seriously. There is no shortage of people that just think adding more stuff to the program works great. How many guys you know in high school bench every fucking day? A lot. That's what I did in high school. And hit and Arthur Jones and Mike Menser accurately recognized that recovery is of a fucking big deal. And if you're not recovered yet, hello you in the gym. Because hit focuses on recovery, there are folks who chronically under recover that when they try hit, they're going to blow up with size and good because they've been doing too much. High intensity training is also in many cases. For example, in Dante Trudelle's version, dog crap training, just a funny way to. Someone once asked me when I already knew about dog crap, I didn't know much about it. Someone was like, you ever do dog crap training? My answer was I generally don't do training that's like self-effacing. Like you ever do idiot training? Like no, like you should try it. It's fucking awesome. This guy's name's the idiot. He's on YouTube. Goes by Dr. Mike. He's got idiot program. I love it. Dog crap. What a fucking weird name. Nonetheless, a very good training system. And one of its tenants is that you go to failure every time you train without a ton of volume, but you're right, you're reps and you're weight now. Something the RPI, I per trippy, I can do for you. By the way, and then next week you try to hit a PR from the start. High intensity training by almost all of its adherence is a log book training. Dorian did it. Mike Mansor did it. Dante did it. JP. Uh, what's his name? Jordan Peters. Or any fact in Jordan, Pete, as of what fucking fucking muscle? No, no, that's how I think he talks. Not really sure how he actually talks. He's a big proponent of seemingly very high relative effort. He goes everything to failure. So he's a hit guy for sure. He's always on that log book, which is fucking dope. Because a lot of guys train at random. Like, yeah, man, I hit a PR. Next week you're like, how is your training? Like, look, good man. I'm a chess to swole up there. Like, I got you to hit a PR. Look, but I know my man, why would it matter if you're getting stronger over time? Oh, wait, that's really critical to evaluating if you're putting on muscle and not. Because you hit guys usually chase the log book. Progression is the cornerstone of philosophy, which is fucking awesome. Every single training method should have progression is the cornerstone, by the way. Another benefit to hit training. It's so fun. Oh my god, by the way, you guys might not know this. For eight years of my life in college and grad school, I only trained hit. Every set was too failure. Every single one, including on squats, by the way. And Nick Shawna, who just got his pro-card, by the way, though is that's how we trained. One of the reasons we continued to train with that despite our best intuitions about how well it was working, was so fun, man. Every set is a religious experience. I least love plugging into a fucking dumbbell press and being like, here we go. People that made fun of me when I was 10. You know, like, amazing, amazing feeling. There's something about sets of 10 to 12 to R.R. The thing you do at a field's go, you rack the weight. Someone's a good set brother and you're like, what's it? I don't know. I did the work. I think going all out failure, man, is fucking awesome. And it's the these knees. Why most people do it because it's fun and look training should be fun. So huge win there. And individuals or muscle groups, on individuals, which are very large, very strong, very fast, which fiber oriented or proportion. Those folks and the muscles for which they're training, who have traditionally overdone the volume and underrecovered when they try hit. Because those muscles respond so well to going close to failure and beyond. Because those muscles take such a huge amount of time to recover. And because those muscles can't tolerate a high volume of work through the week, switching to a more hit like style for those muscles can work wonders. So for specific kinds of muscles, especially muscles like I would say, the hamstrings respond really well to hit training in most people, hit training is like, awesome. And it just work. It just works better. Those are upsides. Those are big upsides. Let's talk about downsides. First, while Mike Menser and Jordan Peters and Doring Yates in enormous people, two thirds of whom are from England, they can get a robust stimulus doing five or six sets of back or chest or legs a week, whatever they're doing. You kind of viewer may not be able to do that. You're not as fast as you are not a strong, you recover way faster and you're capable of doing more. And so if you try doing four sets of chest a week, hit all out failure, dope. You'll get good results. And one of your buddies would be like, do try my program with me. It's more like a bodybuilding kind of like pump volume program and you start doing eight twelve, sixteen sets of chest per week and your chest just fucking blows up. What are you supposed to think about that? Well, clearly, you were way underdoing the volume you could have and now you're appropriately training closer to your maximum recovery volume. The idea that all of the muscles in your body can grow best on just a few sets of a week is on principle wrong because all of your muscles in the body have different maximum recovery volumes. How many sets of wrist curls to failure do you think you can do before your forearms fatigue so much you can't train them for the rest of the week? What a crazy, sure shit not going to be four sets bro, not per week. Your glutes, your quads, your chest, maybe they're so big and strong the low volume is plenty. But for other muscles, I mean, like think about back, lats, spinal directors, do a lot of rows and pull ups man and like, still, you could still do more and in the more you do the more you grow up till a really high point. Next, it's also potentially very tough to get maximum growth from just training the muscle once a week. I mean, this is at hit core at here in philosophy is if you're training the muscle twice a week, most hit people will be like, that ain't it. You're like, but I'm doing all the other stuff. I'm going close to failing. It's just two sets like, not, not, not, not, not recovery is important. You need to hold week. Some of the guys at the end of the real hit air in the 80s were saying that you got a train of muscle over two weeks if you really wanted to grow. Okay. The research in this is crystal clear, higher frequencies in the short-term at least, result in better outcomes. And more specifically, an individual who has trained the muscle very hard, but has healed halfway through the week, like it's not so anymore. If you did some curls, you'd perform at the highest level ever. That person would be much, we're growing much more if they just trained when they were ready and didn't just arbitrarily wait the rest of the week. So it's hard to get maximum growth for everyone from just training a muscle once a week. Most people will get better results flat out, training pretty much every muscle twice a week. Some people better three times a week for some muscles, some people four times a week for some muscles, and some folks can train a muscle every day and get their best results. It's happened before. I mean, there's that whole squad every day phenomenon that happened about 10 years ago that everyone was really pumped about. And a lot of people got the best results they've ever gotten for their legsized squatting every day. And you also have the hit people that say, you got to go once a week. I mean, where's the daylight between those two? Clearly, it's some people just have higher maximum recovery volumes and respond to more frequency than others. And if you're one of those people hits just not going to work that well for you. Lastly, if you go to failure versus not, you get better growth in that session than not. If you're well within your maximum recover volume and you have no recovery problems, going to failure will result in better growth than not. But if you're really pushing the pace, you're really pushing your limits. The training as much as you can with ultra high quality sets of two and one reps and reserve probably have a slightly better stimulus to fatigue ratio because of one quintessential fact, training two failure or beyond for real for real is such an emotional experience. It requires you to recruit so much of your latent ability that the fatigue result is fucking massive. It is exponentially higher than the linear increase in stimulus. As you get closer to failure from five reps to zero, your stimulus goes up like this. Your fatigue goes up like that. So at the end of the day, going to failure or far beyond failure consistently with the program that is of the appropriate volume that maximizes your growth may be unsustainable or rather less sustainable than if you trained a little easier. Three, two, one, zero reps and reserve as the progression occurs to a cycle. You might actually be able to just straight up grow more because you never accumulate that fatigue that stops you dead in your tracks and goes as time to deal with, you're not making any more PRs. Those are three big downsides. Let me tell you guys about the RP high-perrophy app. With over 28 preset programs already in the app, you can choose to make your own. You can modify an existing program or you can just run the programs exactly as they were written by eight personal. This app programs everything for you. The exercises weights sets, reps, frequency, the whole thing. After every single workout and every single week, the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now, you're pretty interested in the app, download the RP high-perrophy app today. Best Practices. How do we take all this and go forward? Let's say you want to try hit. Where you know hit had some really good ideas, let's see you want to integrate them then. Or let's see you're doing hit and you looked at the downsides and you're like that thought that's pretty compelling. Still kind of want to do hit. How do I do it in a way that's better? I have some tips. First, always, everywhere, focus on amazing technique through every rep in a shitload of high relative effort. Whether you stop at three reps and reserve or zero, every single rep is meaningful and with good technique. You're not there to mail anything in. Fact. Next, only do as many sets as you can recover from, no junk volume. And the number of sets you can recover from may surprise you if you hit point number one there. If you hit amazing technique in a high relative effort in the sets, you may not have to do a lot of sets for muscles. Folks using the RPi-perrophy app would just release at the recording this video just a few months ago. A lot of people are starting to use it. It's kind of cool. I've paid a lot of money here for my brothers. I have no idea how many labels to buy. Tough problem. So a lot of people have been saying, like, hey, I've been using the pump and soreness ratings, which automatically adjusts your volume by the way in the app. And they're like, I don't, I'm doing like four sets of hamstrings a week. And I'm like, okay, how are your results? Like, they're the biggest and strongest that I've ever been. Like, okay. So, and they're like, it just seems off. And I'm like, well, hit guys did once that hamstrings a week and they grew really well. And I'm like, okay, okay, I just am used to doing more. Well, you can be used to doing more if you're not training as hard and you're not training with a high degree of focus. And you just did more reps just cause or did more sets just cause. That's junk volume. Get your hamstrings pumped. Get them tired. Get them sore for a few days. Come back and do it again. If that takes two sets or three sets or one set of really good stuff like it. Elisa Good Morning's Per session, that's what it takes. A lot of it's so funny because I for a long time have had a lot of negative things to say about hit, which I stand by all of them. And none of them I said here. And I got, you know, I was exploring in earlier in my career maximum recover volume. So, you know, advocating that, hey, like, sometimes 25 sets a week is what brought us muscle of the best is by the way, very true for many people in many cases. I got sort of this labeled as a high volume guy, which was always wrong. Anyways, there's nobody who labeled me that head and new ones are actually read anything I wrote. And then people now see my training that I post all of my training on the RP at Perch Fiat on my Instagram, including the screens of what I actually did. And they're like, did you really just do two sets of hamstrings for that workout? And I'm like, yep, sure did. And they're like, uh, is that enough for you? Really? And I'm like, yes. And look, I love training hamstrings. I'm on a new five sets of hamstrings. But I can't. Because after one straight set, two reps away from failure. And am I a match set, which reaches close to failure three times in the second set, my hamstrings are done. They're fully pumped and they get sore for three days, which is when my legs next leg workout is. So yeah, you would be surprised at how little volume you need in many cases. And it looks like including me, you're training like your hit guy all the sudden for some of your muscles. For others, you're training like, you know, the 90s volume bros that did 25 sets per muscle group all the time. Next. Yes, starting your mesocycles from roughly three reps and reserve is generally a good idea for most people. For some muscles or for some individuals, you can try starting a two or even one rep and reserve. Just leave one rep in the taken week one, especially advanced lifters that have gotten all of their major gains out of training just normal hard, might for some troubling muscles for them. Need to push the pace a little bit more. Need to go beyond failure, or need to start closer to failure and go beyond failure soon. You may not benefit from this. You might just burn you out, burn me out most of the time. So this is not the right answer, but it's something to try to see if that hit philosophy really does a work for you on the margins. And included in this approach of starting at two or one RIR is implied that if you do this for three or four weeks before a deal load, you may get into situation where your second to last week was everything to failure. Your last week, the week after that, you will be on to failure. So every set ends with bottom and stretch partials or your body helps you on the concentric and you do the eccentric. Or you do a drop set or you do some four straps. Every set that you do or almost every set or the last set of the exercise in that last week is beyond failure. Oh shit, if that doesn't grow you don't worry, you're not growing muscle anymore, just pick up tennis or create it or some shit like that because you're done getting jacked and kidding, sort of. That is what it could take to get you your next level of games. And if that doesn't work very well, it's not for you or not for that muscle you tried it on, which is totally possibility, but if you want to try it, this is kind of how to try it. Lastly, and very, very importantly, you want to auto regulate your weekly volume. How many sets should I do for hamstrings? Four, two sets, four sets or six sets? Will it depends if it's a new exercise and a new rep range for you starting with two sets seems wise? But after a few weeks you notice that two sets barely gets you sore at all and you're so ready to go by your next hamstring session that you should be doing three or four sets. And before you de-load your work capacity so high or so used to the exercise, you need five or six sets in order to drive all the adaptations and actually get you so tired and sore and beat up that it takes you half a week to heal for the next hamstring. So, you're going to work on. Through your mesocycle on average from your first week to say your fifth week before you de-load, on average your volume abilities will go up. The doesn't mean you prospectively add sets. You're not like okay, did five this time. I'm going to do six next time. It's all based on feedback. If you're healing way ahead of time, you're barely getting fucked up and you can tell yourself like literally days before I do this muscle again, I can do it already. Add more sets next time. Add a set or two to that earlier in the week muscle group. So that it gets more beat up so that you're healing just on time for an exercise. If you're healing just on time for an exercise session, do not add any sets. If you do legs Monday Thursday and your last leg workout, you healed Wednesday night, Thursday you woke up and for the first time you weren't so tired and you're ready to go. If it was six sets of of quads you did that Monday, next Monday, it's six sets again. You know six sets is the answer. Of course, if it's six sets is not enough and next time you heal by Tuesday, then it's seven or eight sets the next week. That's how that works. And if it's too much volume, subtract. Again, the hamstring thing. People will do four sets of hamstring curls with my reps and it'll do four sets of stiff leg and deadlifts later that week. And they'll say, dude, I'm like overlapping sore all the time. There's not a time when I'm not sore. I train store. I don't even start being sore. I started being sore in week one, week three. I'm still sore from the first buck in session as far as I can tell. That continual overlapping damage and damage and damage is not making a lot of room for growth. It's a bad idea and it's probably increasing your injury risk. So if you are hitting your muscle so hard that they're not recovered by the next session, take their volumes and reduce them. And even if you think this is so little compared to the usual, it's all about the stimulus in the recovery. People say, listen, I used to do eight sets for back. Now I'm doing four. Am I going to lose muscle? There's a thing called maintenance volume, which is generally a third or less of normal volume. So if you're normal volume to grow as eight sets, two or three sets per week can make sure your back never gets smaller. So four sets sure is shit not making your back smaller. That's crazy. It could make your back bigger but slower than eight sets did. But how do you know if that's the case? Look if eight sets was too much and you were still sore and beat up for your next workout, you go down to four and four is just right. You just barely recover on time that has to be the correct answer because how could it not? If you do less, you could have done more in benefit it. If you do more, are you training while you're tired and sore and fatigued, which is stupid and backwards and wrong? So if it really is four sets of back is better for you than eight sets, don't worry. If you're getting a great stimulus to fatigue ratio, if you're healing exactly on time or close and if you're progressing well. So some guys would be like, dude, I lowered my back, worked down to four sets. I don't know about this man. I'm used to eight. A couple weeks later, I do how's it going? They're like, fuck, getting strong bro. Just fucking healing every time, getting just on that my best ever. What do you really have to ask if four is enough? Of course it's enough. Of course it's better than eight because you just got fatigued and then you're like, I can't hit anymore PR. I'm tired. Making sure you dose your training appropriately to the recovery window is a huge critical factor of training. If that's a little training, looks more like hit to me. If it's a lot of training, looks like it's not the answer. If you want to train closer to failure, your training is going to have to condense maybe in frequency, but definitely in volume. And then it looks more like hit. If you want to train further away from failure, you're going to get pretty close to the same results, except you'll have to do more volume, but the sets won't be as close to failure. As you make the adjustment side to side, make sure to make all of the compensatory adjustments so that you get the only thing that really matters. Ultra high quality training, the beats you have, just enough to get you ready to go barely for next time. You do that. You combine it with your nutrition. You have a fucking enormous. Get into the link in the description. Download your copy of the RPI Perchary Fee app. Use it. It'll hook you up. And it's really open to all of those kind of training. So do whatever you like. Folks thanks for tuning in. See you next time.

Science is nuanced, but sometimes science isn't new on. Su-cross versus high-furtous corn syrup is statistically indistinguishable. You wouldn't know based on looking at bodies which one someone has. So why does high-furtous corn syrup get a lot of crap? Isn't it correlated with a lot of health outcomes that are bad? It absolutely isn't here as wide. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. I have a question for you if we replaced all of the high-furtous corn syrup with that evil stuff. With King Sugarbrown and beautiful fields in Jamaica? That's a nice place. Then wouldn't we become healthier and leaner? Maybe. Let's find out. No doubt you've seen or maybe heaven's an eye, you will know that soda can be sweetened with King Sugar or with high-furtous corn syrup. Some folks say that King Sugar is way healthier. And we need to replace industrial uses of high-furtous corn syrup with King Sugar. Even our make America healthy again, King. Mr. RFK, a Plaude's companies that have made the switch assuring our safety. Now I don't know much about King Sugar. My expertise in farming is mostly limited to nose sugar, aka cocaine. Scott and I were headed to career in a different life. Well, how do you know Scott the video guy like? When a high-level dealer has enemies, someone's got to fare it them out. Scott, remember those days, man? Sure, dude. Still have nightmares? No. I'm convinced. But I'm very pro-America. And I tell you what, brother? No South American, came farmer. Gonna put us honest to God, God bearing. God blessed US, say, corn farmers out to pasture. Are you think we go let some sultry, Havana, hips, sway, sure cane, steal the superlose from baby Eagles, beak? Not on my watch, her motto. Now, all baked in ethno centers on the side, let's look at the science and see how it stacks up. There's some surprising stuff in here. Number one, let's talk about high fructose corn syrup actually is. We take corn starch, which comes from corn, which comes from America, which comes from God. Yep. And we break that down into glucose. And then we insert an enzyme called glucose isomerase. And it flips some of those glucosees into fructoses. And the result is two different kinds of chemicals. One is high fructose corn syrup 42, which has 42% of fructose and the rest in glucose. And then there's high fructose corn syrup 55, which is 55% of fructose from that process and the rest is glucose. Now, high fructose corn syrup 42 is typically used in baked goods. And then high fructose corn syrup 55 is typically used in soft drinks. Now, high fructose corn syrup, a HFCS 55 is 55% fructose 45% glucose in free form. Suque-rose normal sugar from canes or beets, which is what's put into a soda that the sugar cane soda, is 50% fructose 50% glucose, but they're bonded together not split apart. However, your intestinal sucrease enzymes that everybody has cleaves that bond in seconds. So by the time either high fructose corn syrup or natural natural sucrose is hitting the bloodstream both deliver almost the identical, almost the identical fructose to glucose ratio. So as far as your bloodstream and all the health effects that has is concerned, it's almost the same thing. Now, the thing is why do they use high fructose corn syrup for a few reasons? One of them is that high fructose corn syrup 55 stays liquid in room temperature dissolved in fluids, which is really handy for soda fountains and chewy snacks. Because regular sucrose can sometimes bunch up and then you get that sugar coating. It's got you ever have like open up some kind of drink and it's got like little sugar crispy on it and you're like, this, it just doesn't do that. So it's better, it makes more money, people like it better, etc. Now the metabolic bottom line here, differences between these two substances of regular sucrose and high fructose corn syrup, is that once they are absorbed the liver and the rest of your body, sees practically identical substrates and that 5% difference in extra fructose is basically biochemical trivia. It just doesn't seem to make a big difference in any measurable way, but do not take my word for it because there's a load of actual data. So let's get into that. This data set Scott you will like because it's not a hint. This is the, the sledgehammer of data. Check this out. The first thing I'm going to summarize is not the only thing. Is a meta analysis of the best kinds of studies randomized control trials. That's when they take groups of people, no one knows shit about what's going on. And one group has the same diet and has high fructose corn syrup in it and the other has the identical diet and has sucrose in it. Sometimes they switch groups halfway through the study and then switch back again. So this is the gold standard to actually assess cause and effect, not just correlation, this is causation. That's what a randomized control trial is. And since they just didn't want to do one, they did a meta analysis of 20 total randomized control trials. But these were short trials, right? Nope. The average length of each trial was 21 weeks. You would think they'd pick up something. Check this out. Between high fructose corn syrup and regular cane sugar, there was no difference measures statistically in body weight of the individuals. 21 weeks. Yeah, I guess something's got to happen. Libid profile. Glucose, insulin and damn near everything else. Now, there was a tiny updick inflammation marker called C-reactive protein. But when they tried to figure out if the statistics really picked it up or if it was kind of a ghost, which calls it is called correction for multiple comparisons, even the C-reactive protein didn't make that cut. So based on a meta analysis of 20 amazingly done studies, each of them on average, 21 weeks long and duration, we found precisely deadly dick difference in your actual metabolism from high fructose corn syrup and sucrose. Straight up. But that's not enough studies. A specific dose response randomized control trial did something really interesting. It had low, medium and very high intakes. Anywhere between eight all the way up to 25% of daily calories, either sucrose or high fructose corn syrup. Those two three different amounts of hyphroctose corn syrup in a diet produced indistinguishable changes in body fat, triglycerides, which are a huge measure of long-term health, euric acid and insulin sensitivity. So we're talking about a large part of your diet is replaced with hyphroctose corn syrup seemingly nothing metabolic happens of interest. Nothing about health, nothing about fat loss, nothing about nothing. And then later on, there was a narrative review which is a little bit less formal but very detailed, review of all control trials, randomized and non-randomized in the general nutrition reviews. And this was published in 2022 and that conclusion was no meta-bolic or endocrine response difference between hyphroctose corn syrup and sucrose. Scott, how's that thought about evidence so far? Ready to come tell. The take home here is this when the energy intake is matched when it's not extra hyphroctose corn syrup. Sukrose versus hyphroctose corn syrup is statistically indistinguishable. You wouldn't know based on looking at bodies which one someone was having. So why does hyphroctose corn syrup get a lot of crap? Isn't it correlated with a lot of health outcomes that are bad? It absolutely isn't here as why. The real problem isn't detailed chemistry of the compound. It's just the calories for a few reasons. First, our palitability and price. High-fructose corn syrup keeps soft drinks shelf stable, people like soft drinks and sheep, which allows companies to make bigger portion sizes which people also want and then it gives you a lot of mindless sipping. Scott, have you ever been around someone who drinks regular soda, like other people drink water? Oh my god, yes. You was a pain and contractor. So I like two, two liters a day. I saw a guy's drink. Oh yeah. Healthy guys. And like the hot summer. Unreal. I think outside. Unreal. Amazing. Some of them are no longer with us. Oh my god. Bad idea. Bad idea because the excess calories you're pushing in are crazy. And here's the thing about the excess calories. Liquid sugar reduces your hunger. We less than the calories of calories. If I gave you 500 calories. Okay, let's say it's only a reason of 150 calories. In veggies and lean protein, you would eat it and be like, man, I don't need to eat for hours. I'm good. At least a few. If I gave you 150 calories and I've worked as corn syrup, that's literally just a can of soda. You can drink that shit with that meal and get functionally almost no appetite reduction. Any more than you would just having that healthy meal. And if it's just by itself, it basically you like, Scott, can you imagine someone's like, I'm hungry and you're like, here's a bottle of coke. They're like, what? He said it was hungry. Like, well, yeah, it's got 300 calories. Like, but if that could have made my hunger go away. So because of the fact that high-furtress corn syrup is super cheap and tasty and isn't kind of a lot of stuff and because of the fact that it doesn't reduce hunger much, a lot of people consume a ton of it and their calories and upgoing way above maintenance, which causes them to gain body fat. And that's where all the health bad things come from every single one of them as far as we've studied so far. We know this not just from pure lake. Oh, that's probably how it works. Direct randomized control trials, usually in animals and sometimes in people if you can get away with it. Overfeed either high-furtress corn syrup, so people get way more animals get way more of it than you need or they overfeed sucrose. This causes in both high-furtress corn syrup and sucrose overfeeding roughly the same all statistically indistinguishably the same elevations in triglycerides, which is bad, liver fat, which is really bad, liver atoposity, which is even worse and all of that stuff. And as soon as you compare the doses in their isocoloric or the calories come down, all the maladies, all of a sudden disappear. That's a big deal, you guys. So it turns out high-furtress corn syrup isn't the enemy, the consumption of excess delicious sugars and foods is the enemy when your calories climb and your body fat skyrocket. Now a lot of people will say, okay, fine. But it's high-furtress corn syrup and we know that fructose is bad for you. But do we hear some interesting facts? Fructose has a very low glycemic index. Look closely as I've seen the index of about a hundred, it's as high as it goes. Fructose on average has one of its about 20. That means pure fructose affects less of your postmeal sugar in your blood. It raises it less than almost every single health food you know. Scott, name a healthy carb. Did you say crispy cream? Yes. There's not even a carb that might even the whole doughnut. Fat. Oh, that's just what I tell myself. You're like, oh, sorry, sorry. Duncan, Duncan donuts. Is that better? I wouldn't want the hippie seat like Keenwall. Keenwall, oatmeal, brown rice, sweet potato, every single one of those I just named is usually around the 40 to 60 mark on glycemic index, which is supposed to be real bad. Fructose is at 20. Fructose is low glycemic. So all of a sudden, that's like, okay, okay, interesting. There is a weird wacky chemical thing that happens in your liver in which a little bit of glucose, in addition to fructose, can accelerate the formation of glycogen and liver and thus actually lead to lower after the meal glucose spike in your blood than otherwise. If it's less than about 10 grams of fructose, plus glucose, normal starch, then you can get even better glycemic control. Which is confusing. And one of the reasons why many times we eat like an apple, your blood sugar sales, super, super low because it's some glucose, some fructose, enough fructose to do that, and fructose by itself is low glycemic. The fiber also helps, et cetera, et cetera. In, this is gets wacky. In direct trials. This is a meta-analysis summary. One team randomized control trials on diabetics, replacing starch with an equal number of calories of fructose, improved HBA1C, which is a good measure of how diabetic people are, and improved fasting glucose without harming lipids. So it looks like fructose in at least some conditions is even better for you or less bad for you than glucose itself, which all starch trends into glucose in your bloodstream. And it looks like study after study shows the same thing that metabolic harms emerge only when fructose is added in excess energy amounts rather than exchanged for other nutrients. And so the practical punchline here is that fructose isn't metabolic, nitric glycerin, going to blow you into the moon, and you're going to be super fat and unhealthy forever. It's just easy to over consume when it's in high-fructose corn syrup, which happens to be liquid at room temperature and all of a sudden all your coke products have that stuff in there. You say, okay, okay, fine, high-fructose corn syrup isn't bad for you, but like the what's the harm of replacing high-fructose corn syrup with cane sugar if it's all the same? Here's the thing. It's the same calories and roughly the same fructose load. Because sucrose versus high-fructose corn syrup after the breakdown happens in your GI tract, it's really plus or minus an amount of fructose that is essentially negligible and as we learn just now, could even be a little better for you because there's more fructose. It probably isn't in all the studies that are just no difference, but if you had to have a hypothesis, looking at all of fructose data, looking at all the direct high-fructose corn syrup comparisons, and it was like, okay, which one is probably better? Hypothetically, high-fructose corn syrup would be a little teeny bit better, but it turns out in the reality it's basically the same. And so the reason that the cane sugar swap is a big deal is that it's basically the marketing halo effect, you're paying extra for like Mexican coke with cane sugar, and that's like buying organic cigarettes. Like yeah, they're organic. It's the same tar and poisons and toxins. I'm going to kill your ass the same anyway. It's just totally beside the point. The consensus from randomized control trials is that there's no measurable advantage in weight, insulin triglycerides or youric acid, and anything else they've found, of beverages sweetened with cane sugar versus high-fructose corn syrup, direct beverage trials for that. So, if you think swapping high-fructose corn syrup for cane sugar is going to make you healthier anyone else healthier that's just plain wrong. Science is nuanced, but sometimes science isn't nuanced. And all that a second, we're not quite done yet, we're almost there. There is one mega-big-trick one big advantage you can do. Sucrolose is an artificial non-nutritive sweetener. It tastes amazing, tastes just a sweet, but it has almost zero calories, functionally close to zero. If you replace 250 kcal, high-fructose corn syrup containing or or sucrose containing sodas, the real natural ones per day with coke zero or diacoke sucrolose containing products, that chops roughly a thousand calories per week off of your intake. And it doesn't touch your willpower at all because it's shit the same. And if you think the soda tastes different when it's not diet, no big deal. Just drink it for a few more days, in a little taste, just find in Dandy. It's a really easy hump to get over. And that means changing nothing at all, except for instead of going on a storing buying regular, we're going to store and buying the cane sugar one with a little green leaf on it, you just buy coke zero or diacoke or just diet soda in general. And then every roughly three, three and a half weeks, you're going to lose about a pound of fat, having made only that change. Scott, for people that drink soda for real, the real one, how many people do you know that only drink two cans a day? I mean, somebody who drinks two at a time, you know, they're double two, teaming two right now. Like no, two today, really. Today, today's got hours left. Are you kidding me? Most people drink way more soda than that. And then if most people just replaced all of their current soda with diet soda, it would make them inordinately healthier. It's a big deal, not speculation. Multiple meta analyses. Some of these meta analyses have only randomized controlled trials have concluded that switching from sugar sweetened to low or no calorie beverages led to significant meaningful reductions in body weight, body mass index and liver fat, liver fat, by the way, a huge marker for metabolic health. No adverse effects on fasting glucose, no adverse effects in insulin, no adverse effects on blood pressure. It's just the unlock. It's the key. Now, some people say to hold what about gut microbiomes. And that's a very valid concern. But human randomized controlled trials, time and again, realistic intakes high, but something a human would consume, show no clinically relevant shifts in your microbiome or insulin sensitivity. Almost all of the real red flag data that's a holy shit, what about the gut microbiome comes from rodent megalosis? Well, they came out with a DSC this container of sucralose that's the size of your body. You got to eat that shit once a day. I'm exaggerating, but not by a ton. Here's the thing. Four folks that shifted from using regular sugar coke, even a sucrose coke all the way to diet coke and other beverages like that that don't have sugar in them are officially sweetened beverages. They had improvements in dental outcomes in yurek acid and improvements and indicators of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, which is like a huge killer and really bad. All of these things improved. And like, man, if you think about running the numbers, on how many pounds of physical white substance sugar, high soda drinkers taken, you guys, it's like 50 pounds of sugar a year. You take that shit off the table, and all of a sudden, you could have lose a lot of that. You're going to feel way better. You're going to look better. You're going to be metabolically way way way healthier. And that is possible, beginning up nothing as far as taste and quality and texture because you're still get to have your cake and eat it to. And if you say nothing's free, no shit. Somebody had to do generations of mathematics and basic science and chemistry development so that someone had to work for decades in order to develop. It doesn't come out of the ground, the compound of sucralose. We didn't get to it randomly. Scott, that really pisses me off into people will say, well, these new drugs or there's no free lunch, no shit, health, no vornortx, this meant to billion dollars developing those epic. That was a free lunch. You'll get choked to death at the HQ. Free lunch, you son of bitch. I missed my daughter's graduation. I was working on a dumbass molecule, no free lunch for sure, but the benefits of biotech and the benefits of modern agribusiness are that they can give you really, really cool shit. And so the bottom line here is this. If your goal is leanness, if your goal is metabolic health, the real enemy is an overconsumption mindlessly in most cases of liquid sugar. And it doesn't matter if it grew in a field or came from a vet. And as a matter of fact, even that stuff grew in a field because it was corn before that. Sucralose takes the enemy off the battlefield entirely, and as probably one of the most modern, healthiest, artificial, non-nutrivial sweeteners, I highly recommend giving it a thought. Take all your soda, poured in the ground for the homies, buy some Diet Coke, buy some Coke Zero, which is the greatest beverage mankind has ever made. And that's that. So RFK with all due respect. I don't know why I'm not fighting lying to say, but GARFK is a lot of power. Mr. RFK huge fan don't kill me with the intelligence agencies or something, but oh, you guys are great. This has been great. America wins. Everything's awesome. Take your regular soda, get rid of it. Drink Diet soda instead. And if you have questions, we do have a comment section, and I'll see you guys next time.

Someone's like, hey, here's a screen to bring down inflammation. Don't just be like, that's good. Or be like, well, that's stupid. And inflammation's great. Ask that next deeper level of question. Okay, folks. Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. And I have to ask your question. Is inflammation always bad? The answer is no. Sorry, didn't give you a chance to think that one through. Let's talk about this. Because there are a ton of industries and people and celebrities and doctors that are always trying to get you know, byproducts or do protocols or pay them money so they can help you squash inflammation. And G was inflammation seems like it's everywhere. The gut is inflamed. Your body is inflamed. Your joints are inflamed. You name it. It's inflamed and it's always a bad thing and it's always a problem. And more anti-inflammation always seems to be better. Problem. There is not just one type of inflammation. There are at least two categories of inflammation that concern us in order to try to open up this intellectual conversation to learn some shit from. The first is local inflammation. Like my elbow is inflamed. The second is systemic inflammation, which you could do with a variety of blood markers and other scans or say, yeah, here's systemic inflammation is a little higher than we like to see because of XYZ reasons. At the very least those two things are different and potentially how you would address them if you even would are also different. Next point. Inflammation, so first of all, there's not just one type of inflammation. First, fallacy or part of this problem. Second is that inflammation can be a good thing. What? What? How is that possible that it could be a good thing? Well, hold on us. Local muscle inflammation. The delayed onset, soreness and tightness and weirdness, you feel a few days after your muscle, or a few hours after your muscles get trained, is a big integral critical part of the remodeling and upgrading that your muscles receive in order to become bigger and stronger. And we know for a fact, pretty much, that if you take high dose, powerful anti-inflammatories around your workout window, you reduce the propensity for muscle growth from that workout. What? But I thought squashing inflammation was a good thing in all cases, because it's always bad while it turns out that's not the case. There's even a very convincing body of research that if you break your arm or pull a tendon off the bone and you get surgery to fix those things, the recovery from that traumatic injury, not even just muscle growth, bone growth, tendon growth. That recovery can be muted to some extent, slow down, less complete. If you rely heavily on anti-inflammatories much of the time, versus if you take them gingerly in the first few days to really keep the craziest falling down, and then as soon as you're feeling better, you either reduce the dose significantly or you stop, which is to say, high anti-inflammatory use leads to incomplete or a reduced rate of bone, and tendon, and connective tissue, healing, and ultra-structural revision. That's not good, but yes, like, we thought inflammation was all bad, but it turns out it's critical to not only muscle growth, and it's fullest potential, but also injury healing. Okay, interesting, it gets complicated. Short bouts of local inflammation are very important to heal all sorts of damage, including wound healing, bone-injointed healing, and muscle healing that causes hypertrophy over all those systems, and gets you back to normal and even above. So, is that it? Infillumations good, but is it bad? Of course, it can be bad. Infillumation is usually bad when it's excessive by a long shot, even locally, if your elbow is this big, two feet out is probably too much inflammation. The body's inflammatory response is general response, that's designed to heal, but sometimes so much inflammatory response enters that the pressure on the entire structure and the actual damage itself, because of the inflammation or the fluid that it brings in, is so high, it's actually doing a little bit of secondary damage and potentially limiting the healing process. So sometimes even local inflammation can be reduced a little bit when it's excessive, and that's your doctor's decision in the injury process as to when to make that call. And usually they're very, very good at. But another thing is inflammation is systemically high Often, that's a bad thing. Often that means your health could be better, and maybe the inflammation could be brought down temporarily with drugs, but the better answer after that is to look at why chronic, sorry, why inflammation is high systemically, because a lot of times it can be like body. Actually your liver is not doing the things that's supposed to be doing, the glad that we did this inflammation test. Now we can fix your liver and the inflammation will go down and all that stuff. So inflammation can be bad when it's excessive, often bad when it's systemic, and especially bad when it is chronic. If your biceps get inflamed after training and then a day later than a longer inflamed, and then you train them hard, and then the cycle happens, shit, you're winning. Awesome, just acute bouts of inflammation are good for you. They make you stronger and more resilient and are part of the adaptive process itself. But if the inflammation is chronic, it's always hanging around. And a way that does that without driving you completely insane is if it's chronic and low level. If inflammation is chronic, which means it's kind of there all the time, if it's low level, that's a good thing in the sense that it's not fucking making your life hell right away, but a bad thing in the sense that if it's low level enough, but above baseline, it's always there and you can barely or can't tell. So you don't do anything about it, you might not even know about it. And lastly, if it's systemic, that spreads out the detection problem even more. People who are unhealthy, especially people who have metabolic syndrome and are highly obese, tend to have a systemic, low level, chronic total body inflammation. Now that shit is a really fucking bad. That demands attention of a medical professional, it demands a rigorous course of action to try to undo the bad stuff, like being of very large physical size and high level of adiposity, low physical activity, the support of nutrition, not taking various medications, having to rival blood pressure, so on and so forth, these are the things that need fixing, because of that context, inflammation is actually very bad. What do you get when PhD sports scientists collaborate with pro bodybuilders? The most effective muscle growth training app ever made. Get yours now. TLDR. If you hear about inflammation, someone's like, hey, here's this way to bring down inflammation. Don't just be like, that's good, or be like, well, that's stupid, inflammation's great. Ask that next deeper level of questions. To hold down a sec, what kind of inflammation are we trying to bring down? Are we trying to bring down inflammation during wound healing, even though it's not excessive, and just a little bit annoying? That idea don't do it. Let the inflammation do its thing, which includes almost all muscle and strength stuff. Even if you have surgery or get really bad accident, you have to heal, most of the inflammation you're going to get is good. You don't want to try to squash it all, because it is temporary, and it is healing you. But if the inflammation is excessive way too much, impinging on various other structures and stuff like that, but especially if it's low level and systemic and chronic, then, yeah, that I'm too inflammatory stuff might be something to look for. And the last thing I'll say about this is the following. In a treatment of patient sense, sometimes it's smart to just deal with the thing when it is, but it's also smart to try to figure out why it was. If you come to the hospital with a massive headache, it would exactly go through 18 trillion things of screening to find out why the headache is. They're going to be like, well, how bad is the pain? There's a 10 out of 10 I'm fucking screening. They're going to try to give you headache medicine, I promise. Does motron or morphine, depending on the intensity of your headache, actually treat the underlying potential cause of your headache in most cases the answer is no. But first, this wash the symptoms, then we try to look for the cause, then we squash the cause, then it doesn't come up again. The same thing may be true with inflammatory response. If someone says, hey, look, you can take this herb, and it'll bring your total body inflammation down, that might be a good thing if normally the body produces too much inflammation and that's a bad thing. But that's not likely to be the case. What's likely to be cases that because of bad health for a variety of other reasons, you're overweight, you're not physically active enough, your diet's not healthy enough, you have too much psychological and physical stress in your life, then your inflammation is high. And if you take that herb temporarily, hey, shit, you're squashing some systemic chronic inflammation, and that's a good thing, probably. But what's even better thing is, yeah, take the herb and shit like that, but also try to figure out where is this high inflammation coming from. Could just be genetic, your doctor's like, like, you're doing everything right, so people just have a high chronic inflammatory response, because you're taking this herb or the scum medication, you're just gonna live longer and happier because your body just built like fuck shit. Somebody got what's like, fuck you, zap. You get chronic inflammation, a little bitch, get out of here, go be an embryo. All right, fuck that, that happens. But in most cases, that's not the case. In most cases, if some shit you could fix, that if you start attending to that, getting into better health in a bunch of other ways, you can eventually still take the herb and have a really low inflammation, or you just not have to take the herb anymore because you fix the underlying problem. So when everyone tries to give you the solution first, there is the problem inflammation, and we have the solution, try to take back a few steps, open up your thinking a bit and see if you can do just a little bit better. Folks, thank you so much for tuning in, and I'll see you next time.

Hey folks, it's me, Dr. Mike, because we've had a science-purdization. Should you be concerned about insulin resistance? A GA lack of insulin sensitivity, if you are doing bodybuilding or muscle growth training or sports of any kind? So, first of all, what is insulin resistance? In this context we're talking mostly about what's called peripheral insulin resistance, it's generally when your muscle cells and your fat cells get worse at using insulin to transport glucose from the bloodstream into the cell interior itself. That's what insulin does. It's a transport facilitator. And as your insulin resistance goes up, the same amount of glucose doesn't shuttle through for the same amount of insulin use and you have to shoot more insulin into the bloodstream via the pancreas to get the same shuddling effect. This is not great for a few reasons. One is it tends to not fill up your cells with nutrients as much as it's bad to you. The second thing is generally speaking, as you develop insulin resistance, your muscle becomes more resistant to insulin before your fat cells. If you think of this through, that means some way on the way to insulin resistance, your muscles get really bad at absorbing the glucose that hugely stimulates in support type hypertrophy. Also, there's an insulin mediated transport of a bunch of amino acids as well. And also, insulin directly is an actual anabolic activator for a bunch of pathways in the cell and a huge activator of anticatabolism. So when insulin locks into its receptors, it actually tells the muscle cell to stop degrading its structure as much as normally does. If this isn't happening as much in muscle cells, you're going to be less prone to gain muscle and more prone to lose it. Well, at the same time, the fat cells are still fairly sensitive, which means all the stuff in your bloodstream that the insulin's not gobbling up to go into your muscle cells, it's more likely to go into your fat cells, which is a really bad deal. And just insulin resistance makes you less muscular and more fat. Holy shit, that's a bad deal. And after a while, if it happens for a long time, your pancreas produces more and more insulin to compensate because you can't get nutrients into the cells. Your body's pretty sensitive to that sort of thing. It starts to increase how much insulin, it shoots into the bloodstream to get this nutrients into the cells. And at some point, it can actually overstress the pancreas. It's trying to produce too much insulin. Andcreas decides to smoke its last cigarette and dive old age. And then you become diabetic. Formally, you get type two diabetes. And that's very, very bad for you. On the way to that, if even if you never get to it, you can get what's called pre-dibedies, which is just mildly elevated blood sugar. But since your blood sugar is mildly elevated sort of chronically, this is a very, very, very bad for your health, like a truly in different ways. If you give it a Google of like, how is high blood sugar bad for my health? Oh, my fucking God, it'll eventually make you blind. It makes your distal nervous system start to malfunction and die. So you get what's called distal neuropathy, which means like you can't be either fingertips or toes anymore. A lot of times you get a cut on your fingertips and toes and it'll take forever to heal because the distal parts of your body are sort of dying off. This is a really, really bad deal. Now that's all, it went well into type two diabetes, but pre-dibedies starts to damage those structures. And for sure, the last thing on your body is priority list is making sure you stay jacked. So if you are starting to get insulin resistance, then getting jacked is kind of fucking out of the equation and you're just trying to prevent as much muscle loss and fat gain is possible. Real real bad news. So should we be concerned about it, especially as bodybuilders? Well, if you, if the following demographic, then you absolutely almost certainly don't have to be concerned with insulin resistance. If you're under age 40, if you are training hard and regularly and you're not obese, which in this categorization will say, you are south of 25% body fat has a male and south of something like 35% body fat as a female. Since precisely one half of a female watches this channel, we'll just talk about males from now on. Sup fellas, dry, you know, in any case. If you're not close to 25% body fat, 35% females, if you're 5% lower, if you're like 20% as a male, 15% as a male, et cetera, you really almost certainly have nothing to worry about because you have tons of muscle, you're really active. It's just not a concern unless you have the worst genetics of all time. And you should kind of know that through family history and especially if you don't super bulk for like a year straight. So if you maintain relatively remotely athletic lean physique and if you are training hard regularly, train four or five or six days a week hard, you get some decent amount of physical activity you're walking around. Unless you have the worst genetics of all time, it's really, really hard to become in some resistance. And if you super bulk, which means game like 30, 40 pounds, most of that is fat, over the course of like a year straight, you could start to get a little bit insulin resistant, but as soon as you do your first cut, three or four weeks later, you're not insulin resistant at all. So this is nothing to worry about for that demographic. However, if you're older, especially over 40 years old, and the older, the more over 40 are the more as a concern, and you are on special sports supplements, specifically growth hormone. Yes, insulin resistance is a realistic concern for you and you should do intelligent things to make sure that it doesn't bite you in the ass. Or your fingers and toes and your eyes to be more specific. I could fucking disturb it. So if you are older and you are taking, let's say growth hormone, either one of those actually, even if you're younger, taking growth hormone, or if you're older or not taking growth hormone, and especially if you're older, taking growth hormone, then there are a couple of rules I would follow personally and recommend to you consider that will massively reduce your chances of developing insulin resistance and all the bad things that happen from it. One is I would just never get over 20% body fat as a male and over 30% body fat as a female, just don't do it. Secondly, if and when you bulk, when you bulk, just cap it at half a pound per week at most. So that means that over the course of a 12 week massing phase, you could gain only six pounds. That is a good insurance policy to minimize the chances that you develop insulin resistance. You can go faster and risk a bit more. I personally wouldn't, I think that's a bad idea. Stay very active, right? Eight thousand steps a day at least on average, more like 10,000 plus would be really even better. And train hard with high volumes. That allows you to hard training itself, stimulate school coast uptake, clears the bloodstream, it reverses temporarily. The insulin resistance that makes you more insulin sensitive for hours afterwards. And if you stack six workouts a week together like that, you're really like doing an anti-diabatic action. The bigger your muscles can be and the smaller fat cells can be, then the more anti-diabatic anti-insulin resistance pro-insulin sensitivity action you're imposing. And that stuff works long-term. So like, if you're really big and really muscular and really lean and you're very active, it's just probably difficult to be insulin resistant. But if you're the opposite of those things, small amount of muscle mass, high amount of fat mass, your older, and you don't train much or very hard, you're looking at some decent likelihood that this could be coming down the pipe for you. If you are on growth hormone, very well, I would consider a long-acting insulin like lantests or something like that to use a with growth hormone, at least for some of the time, definitely when you're massing most cases. When your fat loss phase and growth hormone, you don't have to use it. Potentially doing a workout, window insulin as well, like a humalog or something, especially if you're getting really big, especially towards the end of a mass phase. Probably supplementing with metformin twice a day. I'm not gonna discuss doses just on here, but talk to your doctor, metformin is essentially an insulin sensitizer and is a very good, it's a longevity drug, it increases lifespan of animals, kind of all good check marks all around. Stay lean, which means many cut as needed to stay below 15% body fat as a male, and 25% as a female. 15% fat, if you're taking growth hormone, in most cases, just isn't that hard. It's a hell of a drug. And if you take it intelligently and you're not a fat piece of shit with your diet, then you can stay lean. No problem, you don't really have to try hard, but if you take growth hormone, let's say you don't add in some insulin in the equation, you don't take metformin, and you super bulk all the way up to 280 pounds, you're gonna have some fucking problems because growth hormone itself causes acute short-term insulin resistance. If you expose your body, that's sort of situation all the time, your bloodstream carbohydrate level tends to be elevated over time, it wrecks your body over the long term, and it causes you to be more likely to develop tech to diabetes in the future. Not some shit you wanna do. A growth hormone is this incredibly powerful thing that can keep you way leaner than you thought was possible, chronically, use it for that end. It's one of these things where if you have a race car, you can put race car fuel in it and make sense, but if you have a Honda Civic, like for a car of choice, why the fuck would you put racing fuel in it? Maybe it'll even fuck the Honda Civic up a little bit, those wears and tears in the engine, I don't know anything about cars just making that up. But it's kind of like, why would you put this exotic material in, if you're not living the lifestyle or having the architecture for it? What I'm saying here is this, if you're gonna use growth hormone to be as good at enhanced bodybuilding as it can be, you also have to eat mostly clean, healthy foods. Most of the time, can you have the bullshit here and there? Of course, but if an only junk food diet and you're just trying to become a sloppy fat piece of shit, the use of growth hormone with that means you're kind of doubling the probability that you were going to expose yourself to something that ends up causing insulin resistance. It's a bad deal. So when you start taking something like G-H, stay the fuck away from like super bulk diets, bulk slowly, stay lean, good news, growth will make that easier, but don't get into this insane thing. We're like, I'm 200 pounds. I'll just bought for the next eight months to get to 250. Those days are over, that's your nanny high school days. You got a bulk to 220 over the next six months. And you're gonna find out that you can stay super lean and you won't become insulin resistance and that's kind of a self-solving problem. So there's that. And those are my recommendations as well as staying very active at minimum of AK steps a day on average. I would say 10 to 12k on average is a really good thing. You're probability of developing insulin resistance. In that case, if you're muscular, you're intelligently using supplementation and you're very active, G-Wiz training hard, you're very, very unlikely to develop, but it's something you have to keep your eye on. Here's what won't do much, because if you Google how to treat insulin resistance and you may find some stuff that's actually just either wrong or highly overstated. There is no avoiding hard training if you want to grow. But if you want to grow the most, your training needs to be hard and smart. RP, hypertrophy app will make sure you're progressing on track, monitoring, and adjusting your workout at all times. So for all that work you're doing, you can be sure you're getting the best results. One is people say, what about like, if I do low carbs on my off-days? Well, if that create an insulin-sensitive environment, it might, but if you raise your fat intake to keep your calories high, then it's actually the way they induce insulin, the resistance in animal models, and rats, for example, is they just overfeed them saturated fat. They don't even feed them more carbs. So an excess amount of calories exposed to the system is the most contributory thing to insulin resistance. It's not even carbohydrates. It's just calories. So if you're saying, well, I'm in a low carbate, but I got a recover-solid, more fats. And if you say, I'm just going to drop my calories on off-days, well, yeah, how the fuck are you supposed to recover and gain mass if you're just eating almost nothing on your fucking off-days? That's kind of stupid. The real thing is to take how many calories you're exposing your body to over time, over weeks and months, contract that down so it's a mild surplus. And then, off-days on-days, it's all, it ends up in the wash. It doesn't fucking matter because if you're lean and you're not gaining too much body fat, off-day on-day calories, make dough, no fucking detectable difference at all. So it's not like you can be 280 pounds, big old gut hanging over. And you're like, hey, man, fucking doing little carbs in my off-days, for insulin shot up, shot up, shot up. That doesn't mean 80 fucking thing. If you lose a bunch of fat, that is the number one way to become more insulin sensitive is get leaner. It's the most predictable thing I've ever seen in blood work. It's just the fucking miracle. And if not that much of a miracle is kind of obvious. If you eat a shitload of food, you train less in your less active, and you get really fat, your probability of developing insulin resistance really goes up. If you reverse all those things, eat less food, you can still bulk, but bulk slower, stay leaner, train really hard with high volumes, stay active. All of a sudden your probability goes way, way, way, way down. If you find yourself at a higher body weight and body fat at some point in your, like, yeah, I really got to clean it up. If you dunk your body fat, if you're a female, closer to 17, 18%, if you're a male, something below 10%, and you stay there for a few weeks, you are going to insulin sensitize yourself like crazy. So a lot of times getting nice and lean is really a good ticket to making sure that that stuff doesn't creep up on you. Another thing that doesn't do shit is cardio after lifting weights, like high intensity interval, training assumption like that. You'll see bodybuilders and other people posting, like, trying to keep that insulin sensitivity up, so after we get a bench and flies and bicep girls, I did some treadmill stuff, like, what? You have to finish a workout and go recover, which means eating lots of food and lots of carbohydrate, lots of protein. We get what about insulin resistance? Well, if you have a high number of steps throughout the day, and you're not a fat piece of shit and you train hard, that is all the big check marks you ever have to hit. There's like two cardio sessions, where you do some health sprens, 15 minutes, twice a week, is a fucking tiny drop in the bucket for insulin resistance. If you're eating Taco Bell for all of you and me or something like that, so keep that in mind. There's no way to, like, short term, mini session cardio, your way out of this. It has to be a lifestyle, and especially a total body fat situation. Lastly, over the counter supplements and herbs, he just don't work all that well if at all. So some of the over the counter supplements have been shown to very marginally affect insulin resistance, but it's always a small amount. And most of them just actually don't do anything, as far as we can detect for insulin resistance. So yeah, you got, you know, if you're fucking around with a growth hormone or something like that, you're gonna have to take a few other drugs to make sure it doesn't fucking kill you in a long term. Well, kills you less quickly, and it's still gonna get you one way or another. Lastly, all right, I've scared you guys up enough. How can you tell to what degree cause it's a spectrum, insulin resistance, this is spectrum, this is spectrum of resistance on one end, and then high sensitivity on the other. You're somewhere on it, how can you tell? Well, you just regular blood work that you should be getting once a year, once every six months, depending on how hardcore or bodybuilding you are, you can add a test that's pretty much free and cover by all insurance, and if it's not, it costs like nothing, called the glycosylated hemoglobin test, and it's also known as the A1C test, and it is a measure of how much excess or rather, how much blood glucose you had on average, every day, for the last three months, which is really, really awesome, because if you're insulin resistant, it will show you that you're blood glucose cause it wasn't fucking going into the cells anymore as much, was like really high. When it ends up happening, it is the glucose, it looks around, it has nowhere to go, and it just ends up attaching itself to various parts of cells, and it actually has these glycosylation branches that it kind of like, it's almost like if you watch a slow, mo-zonedin version of water crystallizing, I'm like a nail, like super zoomed in on a talent nail, it makes these clusters on it, right? And it's the same way, but imagine the nail is your blood cell, or red blood cell, he parts of, which are only your hemoglobin molecules, and then the extra glucose is like, I got nowhere to go, might as well crystallize on this fucking cell, and it's first of all, it's not great, that it's doing that cause, like, lactocylation is actually quite deleterious in variety functions. Within some normal ranges totally fine, but the more intense it is, the worse it is, and if you're diabetic, your the hemoglobin is fucking out of the swirl of that cosylated, it's got all these branches on it, and not supposed to be there, and there's an index, which measures the, like, oscillation, and it's under 5.2, the value is 5.2, is generally considered good, but if you're under 5 entirely, and closer to 4, it's better and better and better. Sometimes we few score a low enough, like, close to 4, even below, the test comes back as like, just null, it's like, we couldn't find anything, so you're good to go. Generally when I go get my blood worked on, that's what I tend to see as like, I got nothing or it's somewhere below 5. If it's 5.15.2, many cut time, or real fat loss cut time, something for real, because you don't want that shit going higher. If you get above, you know, 5.35.4, you are now considered pre-diabetic, and sometimes it's measurements off, so freak out too much, but it's time to lose some body fat, and that's the number one weapon you have, realistically, in managing your long-term blood glucose exposure, is your body fat, your activity level. You aren't ramp up your activity level, ramp down your body fat. Almost every time your blood glucose is gonna start behaving much better, and then you're gonna have much less chance for developing ins and resistance. Here's the thing, when you're in the normal range and even pre-diabetic, if you change your life around, you can reverse the shit altogether, and there's no real long-term lasting damage. If you end up developing type 2 diabetes, which you'll see A1C scores, like 789, I think some people have seen like 15 before, that's like you're just walking, dying while you're walking, like a fucking zombie, then that really causes some, man, I want to put two-fine at point, and I'm like, it's a reprobable long-term damage, and you may never have a properly working, until biotech in 10 years, here's all this shit. For the next 10 years, you may not have, if you make it that far, you may not have a properly working glucose dynamics system in your body, because you fucked it so hard, there's no unfucking in until genomics heals us all. So anyway, stay sharp, again, for most of you, not remotely a thing to worry about. But as you get closer to your fore reason, if you're curious, just take a look at your A1C values, when you get your blood worked on every year, so, and if they're below five, and while below that, no worries, you know, enjoy, live your life. But if the creep and then above five, and into the mid-fives, it's time to think about it, in time to do some serious fat loss, serious enhancement of physical activity, and definitely talk to your doctor, medical provider, about like, hey, I'm like, a little bit concerned about insulin sensitivity. Is there anything I can do to improve it, and they may have some great ideas for you? Thanks for tuning in, folks. Like, subscribe, swipe, left or right, I don't know what platform run. If you're new subscriber, hello. Welcome, hopefully you're learning stuff, and we'll see you guys next time for the next video.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization, and today's BS topic is the claim, the idea, the notion even that Red Meat is bad for your health. Terrible, in fact. Do you guys remember that one time that the dentists in a peaceful city were just living their lives? And then one of the kids looked up and he goes, gee whiz whiz whiz that dad! And dad looks over and it's giant piece of red meat. Boom, hits the central bank skyscraper building and it falls crushing puppies and children. One of the children's heads rolls right under the kids. The he looks down and the kids got one eye missing and the jaws all bucked up and he's like, ah, ah, ah. That's basically what Red Meat does, but tear body. So claim some folks. Here's the thing. As a scientific community, we did suspect that Red Meat was bad for health back in the 80s and 90s. And less and less scientific community and more and more like the popular health community. Like people that write major media magazines, like it's a real great piece for time magazine, like, is your dinner table a murder scene like I, I, I'm not as of yesterday, but how, how could this be? Read this magazine here. 1888. Red Meat is killing your children. Oh, that's terrible. And they're made of red meat, the irony. However, the way we got to know that was from huge data sets on tons and tons of people that listed a ton of their different habits and lifestyles and also listed their red meat consumption. And at first, on average, the people that consumed more red meat seem to have higher rates of strokes and diabetes and obesity and heart disease and she was, you know, all kinds of bad stuff. And some people thought, many people thought, holy crap, like red meats, bad. But remember, this is only correlation. And this was not adjusted for what we're called confounders. Lurking variables that could actually be causing the difference, but making it seem that the difference is caused by whatever you focused on like red meat because it turns out, some of these other things may be contributing to the health realities that red meat eaters actually experienced because it turns out that people who eat more red meat on average also tend to exhibit some other sorts of behaviors. For example, red meat eaters also seem to smoke more often and bigger cigarettes, too. I'm kidding, I think cigarettes are all the same size ever smoked a cigarette. But didn't have weed in it, you feel me family? Uh-huh, you boys on it, not right now, not at work. But probably in about 45 minutes, in any case, people who eat a lot red meat seem to smoke more, at least back in the 80s, 90s, they drink more, sweet diet. They hate children and flowers and peace and their pro-war, all of a sudden bad stuff. So maybe it's the smoking and drinking and otherwise unhealthy behaviors, by the way, they also tend to exercise less. I don't think red meat's causing them to do all these things and red meat might be the thing that was actually hurting their health. But she is like, we know for sure smoking isn't good for you. We know drinking passed a very small, several, you know, one to two drinks a day, a few times a week is bad and if you drink much more, it's really bad. And it's shown that people drink a lot and smoke a lot, um, gee, they really ain't a lot of junk food too and also they had more red meat. Just think of like, not an actual truck driver, but a stereotype, the worst one you can think of of a truck driver. You're a man with truck and cigarette, gas tank, alcohol, I'm still driving, I can. And steak, raw, bloody, ah, that was great. And then chicken nuggets, clearly, fries, you get the picture. Unhealthy behaviors tend to correlate at least somewhat with red meat consumption. So how do we know if it's the red meat causing troubles or if it's all the other bad stuff that's associated with. Right? So good news. Since the 80s and 90s are data sets have multiplied in how many people are being analyzed and how many different life variables are asking people about. It's not just like, hey, do you read me how much? How much junk food do you smoke, do you drink how much? I got here. That's our study. We got tons of other stuff. Exercise, how many vegetables and fruits they eat? Stress, pharmacology, use, et cetera. And are statistics that we have are now super powered. A lot of these studies in the 80s and 90s, if you want to do some real hardcore stats, get in a program, nobody knew how to program basically. A lot of the stuff you'd have to do kind of my hand nowadays, statistical software, is like ubiquitous and ultra powerful. And when I was learning stats, some of the shit I had to really, when I learned stats when I was younger younger and then I had to relearn them later with the new software. And it was like, and, oh, do you want this test to account for sphericity? I was like, what the fuck is sphericity? Oh, we shit. I must have been dead for a few years. I was just starting back, they changed stats, but in any case ended up learning what all that stuff stats are really, really great now at taking all the data together. You say, okay, I want to see what is the correlation of red meat consumption. But I have a hundred other variables that I've also studied. And I want you statistically, Mr. Computer, to remove them out of the equation, so to speak, so that I can just see the relationship of colon cancer, heart disease, blah, blah, health stuff, just with red meat. Because we know that red meat eaters also tend to smoke more. And that affects health. So if we statistically adjust for cigarette smoking, it's okay, but for red meat eaters that don't smoke more, so to speak, are they at a higher likelihood of all these other bad diseases? And every single time our surveys got more inclusive of all kinds of variables. And every single time the statistical packages got better and the amount of co-founder adjustment we could do got better, the fraction of bad health attributable or correlated to red meat consumption, shrink and shrink and shrink and shrink and shrink. And it turns out that since then, more direct studies on food replacement, you take a group of people, they have, you know, they're doing XYZ in their diet, there's a hay guys you need more vegetable, so you have one group eats more veggies, one group eats more fruits or something and you start to the effect. One group eats less red meat, one more, etc. Other studies like that have confirmed this trend and I'll sum it up the most chairedably that I can to the position that red meat is actually bad. Here it is, it's just not clear that red meat and moderation is harmful to health. So if you're in a steak house and you're eating your chicken breast or your vegan option and you see someone cutting in old juicy rib eye or whatever, I don't know steak names. Scott the video guys, rib eye steak? Yes sir, let's go ahead and help back. I got it, it looked like shit. It was terrible. It was terrible. We're not going to have this on this channel outback. According to scientific research, outback steak house is the best steak house and then there's like mortons or whatever and then that's it. There's two steak houses as far as I'm concerned. In any case, if you look at that person and you're like, hey, you know you're killing yourself, right? Do you have children who you want to take care of your kids? You're going to die on them tomorrow from this red meat. You are probably overstating the case. Very chairedably, very overstating the case. So if it turns out that red meat is bad for health, it looks like it's going to be teeny tiny little contributor, very, very small difference and it's just not a big deal. It's not terrible for a health foreshur. And there's a really good chance that it actually isn't bad for health at all, especially in moderation. Like a couple times a week, you have red meat a couple times a week, you have fish, cup times blah blah blah blah. Even a couple times a day. So long as you're getting good physical activity, you eat plenty of fruits and veggies in the whole grains. Your coloric balance is such that you are at a healthy body weight. You smoke not at all or minimally, drink not at all or minimally. That's for you college students. Have fun and college. I'm kidding. You can grow up after a healthy. And take care of your sleep and stress. The total effect of red meat consumption on increasing the probability that you will have all these other bad health effects is somewhere between barely detectable and maybe has no effect. So the idea that red meat is terrible for your health, although it feels nice to say and we've been saying it for so long, is bullshit as Arnold would say no doubt also flexing his muscles though they are much more impressive than mine. So that's really the deal. So I wouldn't worry about it too much just be healthy and all the other stuff and the kind of meat you're eating probably won't make either any difference at all or any major difference. Maybe later research will show that actually there is a difference. It's going to be small but maybe it's detectable. We'll update you for sure on this channel if we get some wind of that. But for now I'd say, eat plenty of red meat if you like and if you don't, you don't have to eat it. So if you're a carnivore, eat it raw. If you're the liver king, inject steroids into it and then eat it and then inject steroids into yourself and then lie to people about it. I've said enough. I'll see you guys later.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization, and today's the BS topic is that Stevia is safer than other artificial sweeteners. Wait, that's BS? It is to cheer us. Alright. So, first of all, is it Stevia or Stivia? Me, I'm saying Stevia and here's why. It's a make belief word, so we can pronounce it however you want to guess all words are make belief. Stevia doesn't really have an anthropology associated with an ethnography of the word. I assume it doesn't exist, but if it's Stevia, sorry. But also not sorry, because that sounds like I'm talking about some guy named Steve. Do you know what? If you're an aimist, even you're listening to this, certain there are hundreds of use, statistically named Steve listening to this? I don't want you to be implicated in what I'm about to say, so it's Stevia. And if your name is Stev, we you got it coming. Point number one, lots of people claim that Stevia is the safer, sweetener, healthier than aspirate, and sucralos and a bunch of the others. If you look at the actual health data, the direct scientific research, there is zero support of this and as far as I can find. And in fact, much more research later could actually prove that Stevia is safer, but that research doesn't yet exist. So, there's a notion that Stevia is healthier, it is not even couch to the hypothesis, it's not even couch to the guess it's if it's couch to the thing we just know to be true, which is a note. Number three, point here is on short term gut health. Stevia is actually in at least one study has been shown to be worse than aspirate. Oh, and the public link is right there in the study. He want to copy it down, write it down in your notebook. But pro tip, if you're watching this on your phone, just pause the screen zoom in and your phone will be able to, if you screen shot it and go to the picture of that, it'll be able to just highlight that right up, go right into pop band read that study. So, in this study, Stevia had some pretty large changes on gut microbrana, also, but again, probably not concerning. He got microbiomits insanely adaptive, but as per team, it's essentially undetected and it's changed. So, of all of the health data we do have, we have this tiny little piece in which Stevia is actually worse than aspirate, which is supposed to be the silent killer of a generation. So, if there's not really a lot of evidence or actually any evidence at all, actually on the margins negative evidence for Stevia being healthier and safer for you than other artificial sweeteners, because Stevia is a natural sweetener. Oh, Stevia is a not-nutrious sweetener, which means it basically has no calories, just like superlose and aspirate, but those two in the many others, they're artificially constructed and designed in laboratory where a Stevia comes directly from mother earth herself. Why the love for Stevia? Because it's natural, and that's literally it. It's just pure bias. It is the argument for nature, fallacy, or the naturalistic fallacy, however you say, it's that. Folks, do not fall for this crap, go by logic, and evidence, do not go by what feels right, because that's actually just called prejudice and bias. And it's maybe wrong. Stop telling Keepel Stevia is safer and healthier just because it's natural. There's tons of natural stuff that's bad for you, like snake bite and just mealtly existing outdoors, and there's tons of artificial stuff that's really good for you, like air conditioning, and the warmth of a TV dinner in your hands. Isn't that nice? I don't hold a too long little burn you. In any case, there's one guy that's like digging the fitness industry and it's like a movie star. He sets something about Stevia once that I thought was like, it was just really, really, just really informative. You know, someone just saw something, you're like, and you're really just summed it up. Oh, and it was Arnold, and he said, bullshit. See you guys next time. Let me tell you guys about the RP Hypertrophy app. With over 28 preset programs already in the app, you could choose to make your own. You could modify an existing program, or you could just run the programs exactly as they were written by e-person on this app programs, everything for you. Exercises, weights, sets, reps, frequency, thought whole thing. After every single workout, every single week, the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now, you're pretty interested in the app, download the RP Hypertrophy app today.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike Israel here for Renaissance Pyrridsation. Today's topic is asking a question. Is TRT right for you? Time to like this, I wish I was a TRT clinic salesman, but I am not. It's a big important choice, so let's give it some due diligence. In this talk today, we'll talk about a few things. First, we're going to talk about what TRT is. What TRT seeks to accomplish as a medical therapy? What happens when hypogonatal individuals who do not produce enough testosterone by themselves? What happens when hypogonatal folks are administered TRT, typically what their results are? What happens when you go and have a normal amount of natural testosterone production? What happens when they get TRT? What the downsides are of TRT and how to make your choice based on your situation and all of the stuff that we're going to talk about today. So here we go. TRT is testosterone replacement therapy and it is the introduction of usually injectable testosterone in order to account for a suboptimal production of endogenous testosterone that you make yourself. Basically, you're not so make enough tests, so we need to shoot more into you so that the total amount gets to be nice and high. High enough to make it normal so that you get a normal human exposure to testosterone which you're currently not getting. That's all TRT seeks to accomplish as to get you back up to normal levels such that you are functioning optimally from a perspective of health physically, psychologically, sexually, etc. It is not designed to get your ripped and jacked out of your mind and in most cases it simply won't do that because it is replacement therapy, not enhancement therapy. Very important point that I will no doubt come back to at least one more time. Here's the thing, if you are hypogonatal and you received testosterone replacement therapy, you can expect an average somersaults to occur. Hypogonatal are folks that underproduced a stostostero for a variety of reasons, it could just be genetic. Usually by large margin, in the United States at least we use the reference range of 300 to 1000 nanograms per deciliter of testosterone in the blood. And you're considered hypogonatal if you are below 300 nanograms per deciliter. When hypogonatal males receive supplementary testosterone and the form of replacement therapy, they're almost always brought into that 300 to 1000 range somewhere in there. When that happens and originally they were below 300, a lot of times people get improved sexual function, often by a long shot, you get boners again, you want to do things with them, ethyl's situation. Your mood and sleep and sense of all being tend to become elevated, maybe like you remember them in high school or something if the hypogonatal condition occurred to you later in life. Your energy and cognitive performance improves substantially. Your blood work improves from a health perspective and so do other health markers. And yes, you are able to accrete and meaningfully hold, sorry, accrete and hold a meaningfully larger amount of muscle and less body fat. Yes, it will give you results. If you are hypogonatal to begin with. Now, what happens when you go nadal people, you go nadal means true go nadal, real nuts, that's really what it means. When you produce a normal amount of testosterone somewhere in there 300 to 1000 range and you start taking TRT instead. And then you take to believe nothing note where it happens because you didn't change your testosterone exposure much or hardly at all. And that's kind of fucking obvious because you're trying to replace something that was there anyway. You're producing normal range naturally and then you took an injection that suppressed that normal production to zero and now you're at the same amount except through injection. And then you're using the same testosterone levels and same results roughly speaking. Now, there's a nuance to that. If you're at 350 nanograms per deciliter just above the cut off and your doctor describes you in a month that's like north of 700, then you will feel potentially some of those positives, but also some negatives. And then some doctors, those unscrupulous types will prescribe you a very top end to just above top end TRT. So instead of taking you from 150 nanograms as hypogonatal or from 400 nanograms as a ugonatal male to something like 5 or 600, they will take you to 800 to 1200. Possibly even 1100 or something over a thousand or close to it. In that case, if you were below that range to begin with, which you probably were, you will very likely see increases in sexual function and desire, some of which you could consider inconvenient. You will probably have a higher degree of alertness as well as athletic performance and much notably better body composition. You will be able to put on more muscle faster, lose fat faster, more completely stay leaner, all that good stuff. However, your health markers are likely to decline marginally because you are now taking in lots and lots of testosterone and your tendency towards frustration, aggression and anxiety can by a small or even not small, notable margin go up that side effects, right? Because drum roll you are in a super physiological state. Absolutely super physiological if we talk about the reference range of above a thousand and relatively super physiological, which is the only one that counts. If your body was hominolonged just fine producing 400 and now you're at 1200. You just multiply your test exposure by three. Some of those effects are going to be positive, some are always certainly going to be negative. That is not replacement, that is enhancement. Not only you say you're on TRT, but really you are on that good shit, that gear gear. That's not TRT anymore because you're not replacing 1200. You're replacing 400 with 1200. Not TRT. By name, yes, by effect, absolutely not. All right. But okay, that sounds pretty sweet, kind of. If I get TRT, it could, you know, when I have a good doctor and sort of buddy buddy with, I could get to the top end of the range. I'll say 900 or something, 9 grams, desoliter and I'll have all good things. Yes. So everyone should be on TRT. Yes, hold on a second. There are some downsides. First, you have to shoot yourself either daily or weekly or by weekly with various size needles, some of which are quite large and that's not fun. In addition to that, you have to travel with your gear because if you go on a holiday in two weeks and my orca Spain, that's easy. Is that, is that Spain? I hope. Rich people holidays two weeks at a time. You have to bring a shit with you because if you don't, the your hypogonaddle by the end of that two weeks and you feel like total shit, even though you're in fucking lush wilderness, or rather the fuck you go to vacation. Traveling with your blows, especially internationally because what the fuck is that? You're like your scripts and they stand around for five minutes and they're in the fire or longer than five minutes and then you get the whole probe. That's fun, but not for everyone. Another thing is shooting, exaggerant substances in your body is interesting and theory, but in practice, a lot of times your immune system will be like, what the fuck is that? And it'll give you big, like, red welts and you'll get a fever and all this is shit, they'll swell up on you. It's terrible. And real life shooting is a gigantic plane in the ass. The only people that are excited about shooting drugs are TikTok teenagers and never shot drugs before and everyone else is like, it's the thing you do at best. Number two, your natural production plummeted to zero after several weeks at most of exposure to TRT and unless you take HCG and maybe a few other drugs along with that, your natural production will completely deteriorate to nothing, oftentimes your testicles shrink to very close to nothing. And that's not itself. I suppose a big problem, but if you ever want to come off of TRT, then your rebound is going to be at least a little bit fun in the not fun way. You could be low in testosterone for months and months and months until you come back out. And some people actually never get their natural production back. It's very small number of people, but it does exist. So it's just a whole lot of risk and pain in the ass that you better know what you're signing up for before you sign up for that shit. That's what I'm trying to say. Number three downside is your mood can swing up and down with injections. So injections have a small amount, a moderate amount of the drug just circulates to the bloodstream within the next several hours. And a larger amount of the drug stays within the depot, the bolus itself and leaches out slower if you inject in tromosculinary for example. So after every exposure, you do get a higher underlying slow long concentration of drug, but you also get a bump. And like after the injection, unless you inject once a day and then you still have it's tiny effect, but if you inject twice a week or oftentimes TRT is done once a week. You know, right after that injection, you're going to be like more anger, prone, more irritable, more frustrated, more sexual, more just like more man and every way good and bad. And then mid through through the week, you'll feel amazing and always. And then towards the end of the week, you'll be like, you know, not so much the ultimate mench anymore, but kind of like wilted and maybe a little depressed and Mr. Winkie's not working as well. That's fucking sucks. Like you're not kind of producing same amount of tests every hour of the day more or less. So you're kind of good to go certainly through a 24 hour cycle. It's relatively normal. This is no longer the case. You can arrange for it to be the case by using insulin needles and injecting yourself daily, which fucking blows because you're injecting yourself daily. So there's, you know, it's not quite the Jeff Foxworthy joke where he says getting married as getting married for the sex is like buying a 747 for the peanuts. But she was, you know, this does more, you're getting more than just the effect you're getting some other bullshit there. And if you are a person who technically is hypogonaddle, but is very high-endrogen sensitive, especially in some tissues. And you start TRT. You were making, let's say, 150 nanograms for desoliter by yourself. Now you're exposed to 900. You will get all of the steroid side effects that you got coming to you, including giant purple pimples. Hair growth on every part of your body that's not the top of your head. But nothing about that. Aggression, all this other shit you don't want because testosterone is a steroid. It's the regional steroid. And now you're taking four times more of it than your body used to produce and your body could be quite sensitive, especially in some tissues. So your muscles could be normal sensitive, so you get a little bit more jacked. But the top of your head could be very sensitive and if you lose a bunch of hair, your skin could be sensitive and you get a shield of pimples. Would you say it's okay, Dr. Mike, I'll use all these other drugs and all the other medications and cleanse my skin with the Charlie John cleansing routine. And I'll look like a Korean boy aged seven all times. Yes, you can do that and some of it will work pretty well, but it just takes a lot. Right, so it's not like, oh, I'm going to just get TRT and it's going to fix everything in my life. Not even fucking close. It has to be a lot wrong for it to work that way because it's designed to give you enough more testosterone than you normally producing when not enough is being produced. If you even if you're in that group, it could affect some of the target tissues differently and your rosy expectation for how it goes. Could be a little darker in reality, somethings could be great, somethings could be not so great. That's how the shit really works. So how do you make your choice based on your condition? TRT administration is really annoying. And as a ton of downsides, you probably have to have a reason for wanting it. That's probably one of the biggest things I want to convey to you guys with this video. As you have to have a compelling reason to need TRT, which means the Instagram comment of should i be on TRT is not a question anyone can answer except for yourself. And that answer has to have a compelling reason. They can if you're sitting at home, Saturday night, you're with your girl, Netflix and chill. You don't particularly want Chinese food. It's stowing outside. You'd have to drive to get it. You have plenty of junk at the house. You're trying to hurry like, do you think we should get Chinese food? If she was smart, she would ask you, do you want it? What is a compelling reason that we're getting it? Because we're going to have to get through the snow and we have food here. Look, if you really want Chinese food, hell yeah, let's go. But you've got to have a compelling reason somewhere. And TRT is compelling reason is more than just wanting it. You have to understand what effects you're going to get likely, possibly, and go from there. Here's the thing. Number one scenario here. Just a couple sample scenarios you could find yourself in. If you are hypogonatal on paper, that means you test below 300 nanograms per deciliter, but you don't really have any problems with sex drive performance. So, I'm just going to say, like, some people get the blood work and I call my test is low. And someone's like, oh man, you got low sex drive there. Well, my girlfriend says, she says, that human tissues only recover. So often, that's why we can't have sex five times a day. Like if that's you, you can try TRT to get you up to normal, but if everything is good, probably don't fuck that up, then you'll just have the effect that most people get from steroids, which is a lot of cool stuff and a lot of really shitty stuff. And it'd call me crazy, but maybe less of both is better for most people. That is what it is. If you are hypogonatal on paper and you have symptoms of being hypogonatal, then you want to give TRT a little bit more thought and talk to your doctor about some signs. Don't just pick one of these got damn it because if it's just one, it's probably not the low testosterone, but if you've tested and you do have low testosterone. And you also have usually a few of these, then yeah, TRT is something to consider and the more of these you have the more TRT is something to consider. To press mood and more just like a lack of impetus and drive, you know, wake up in the morning, you're like, I'm going to breathe fire and every fucking goddamn problem I see in my life. If you're on the opposite where you're like, I'm going to breathe fire and you're like, like, that's how you feel inside. Okay, there's something you can actually have depression or or subclinical depression where you're just like, you're just not so happy about things. You could have a very low sex drive potentially impotence, a very low degree of muscle mass, higher degree of relative fat mass, you're like, you know, small and kind of soft. Porsely bad blood work, low bone density, if you've got that stuff, then yeah, TRT is something to talk to your doctor about. But remember that TRT is a big commitment, it can change a lot, not always for the better, so make sure you're ready for that change up. It will be a different thing in your life. It'll make your life very different, hopefully for the net positive, almost certainly not for the total positive. And sometimes for the net negative and then you just have to have another option after that. It's a big thing. It's not something you just do. Number three, if you are a you go nattle on paper, but you have a lot of symptoms of low test, you could talk to your doctor about potentially you have low endurance sensitivity, maybe there's another drug they can give you for that. TRT is still an option here at higher doses, but that's definitely in the weeds for you and your doctor to discuss. It's a tough problem because if you have to introduce higher doses, you get more health risks, you get more side effects and it's a mixed back. For some people who works out well for many, it does not, just saying that. Lastly, if you are a you go nattle on paper, you produce above 300 nanograms per deciliter and below 1000 nanograms per deciliter, if you're just asked or by the way, lots of really good research says that your hydrogen sensitivity matters way more than if you're producing just above 300 or just under a 1000 nanograms of test per day. So, sorry, in the blood and if you think that there's going to be a life changing thing going from 300 to 600 to 900, you may be wrong. You may feel nothing different, you just don't use your own nuts to make to ask anymore and you're on that needle as one of my friends says. I'm stuck on the needle for the rest of your life, which is actually true unless you want to pull out and see if you're not still work, which could be an arduous shitty process of essentially having pipeogenatism for like six months until your shit kicks back in or it never kicks back in. So again, this is a big fucking deal. It's not something you just do. It's a come. If you have a net worth of $10,000 and you decide to buy a used car that costs $8,000, that motherfucker better work out for you because if it doesn't, you are short, a shitload of money and you got a car that doesn't work. So it had better weather to big deal is what I'm trying to say. Now here's the thing. If you're a you go nettle on paper, you're somewhere in that normal range and more specifically you just don't have any symptoms of low teacas sometimes. This is the big problem. I'll just finish this one right now permanent answer. If someone says, you'll just use all the time and the internet tons of questions like this. I got my test done and it says I'm just above the cut off for the low range. What should I do? Should I take to RT? The only question to ask is after how do you feel? Because low tea is something that if you read about it, you're going to be like, oh my fucking god, I have that. But if you read the symptoms list, which I just gave you on the last slide, you're going to be like, I don't really have most of that. And you're fucking golden. That means you are not actually hypergonatle. You're above the cut off. And you don't have any of the symptoms. And TBH, if you're below the cut off and you still don't have any of the symptoms, like compared to your average guy friends, your normal sex drive, normal muscle mass, normal motivation, everything. You're fucking good. You just have really high injuries and sensitivity. Good. God bless your soul. Amazing. If you don't have any symptoms of low tea, just stay fucking nanny to not start TRT. It's way better. Why you bring in sand to the beach? If I ever see you in real life and you tell me a story about how you were perfectly fine adding started TRT, I'm a clown you in front of everyone. I'll be like, oh my man, why get the shit for free from your nuts when you can pay a doctor to inject it for you and cost you money and swollen infection, ridden fucking injection sites and all this hush. The fuck with the fuck? Why? Why? Don't do it. If you want to push ahead and become an ascended sand with a five to ten year shorter lifespan, just take real gear, jump to the dark side for the love of fucking God. If you wonder about that, I have like five other videos about why not to do that either. But if you chose to do it and if you're older and you're intelligent, you have medical supervisor and all this other stuff, TRT, this is the end of my speel, is testosterone replacement therapy. It is designed to get you from a high-pogo-natal state where you're experiencing a lot of really unfortunate symptoms of low testosterone into a eugonatal state and the normal range where you no longer experience most of those symptoms. If you are not that person down here with low T and experiencing the symptoms, the probability that you should be doing TRT is fucking low. It costs a really high and the benefits are like on average, you just the same. But now you need the needle to keep you the same. It's like if you ever meet like a heroin addict that's been addicted for years, you don't look like you're on heroin. You're talking to me, you're standing upright, they're like, yeah, I am. I just just heroin just makes me normal now. You're like, oh my fucking God, that's why heroin's a bad idea. You don't want to get any more shit in your life where you have to take pills or injections to stay normal. Fuck that. If I'm injecting your boys going to Mars, you feel like fuck the moon, I ain't even interested that's just too close. Be smart, think, talk to your doctor, get your blood work, do not rush into TRT because TRT is for the vast minority of folks that need it and can benefit from it. And I'm not trying to be like your eighth grade anti drug counselor, drugs are fucking sweet. I use them all the fucking time intelligently and a measured adult approach. But if you don't need the shit, don't use the shit. That's my shp on TRT. Folks, like, comment, subscribe, tag your favorite influencers, send other people this video with an unkind message to start a fight on the internet. I'll see you next time. Bye.

If you are having a combination of high volume and high intensity sex, specifically, and I will be getting graphic unfortunately, you're the one doing the thrusting so to speak. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NSWP and occasionally we make the huge mistakes Scott the video guy and I, of actually trying to answer one of the questions in the comments with a video. And more than a few comments every now and again, I think they're jokes, but some people seem quite serious. Ask the question essentially of, is too much sex killing my games. Now almost certainly most of these people are lying about having sex at all, but we decided to throw the sort of science at this problem and see that if in fact it is possible, dare I say, probable that you are having so much sex and in such a way that could interfere with your games. Right? Is too much sex bad for your games. Here's the thing. I get hit on all the time. You guys probably figured this out. I'm handsome. Take a look. That's quite good looking. And I'm really tall. I'm like, what am I going to go? Scott the video guy, six, eight, six, eight. Approximately. I'm six seven on a bad day. I feel bad on those days. And bitches love money and you know your boy has 27 Lamborghinis. Yes, that's right. The botler's went crazy and bought a bunch more. So I'm just kind of over it and I'm just not even in a sex anymore, but however, being that I'm so tired of sex, how could you also be in a position to be physically tired of sex is sex really killing your games and do you have to tell these bitches, ah, off, family, not today? Well, actually, science can weigh in in this and hears the science part of this video is preposterously short, by the way. If you are losing sleep because of it, you happen to walk into your bedroom and there are three random waifu Japanese girls that just couldn't wait for you to return and you figure grandma, you let these bitches in again. All right, no sleep for me tonight. Yet to do it whatever you do in bed, hey, that's your thing. I'm not going to judge you. And then you get zero sleep. You show up to the gym super tired. Sleep by itself is super antibolic. You missed out on that. You have a great time, but lack of sleep is absolutely a problem. So now you having as much sex as you do, it's getting the way of your games again, but wait, there's more specifically leg training. Can absolutely suffer if you are having a combination of high volume and high intensity sex specifically and I will be getting graphic unfortunately, you're the one doing the thrusting so to speak. Here's the thing, especially if you go all night, if you're doing a ton of thrusting, then yes, absolutely it's going to cost you and your muscles that do the thrusting. And if any of you have ever actually had sex before, you will notice that distinct quad receipts and glute burn if you're doing it, right? Of course, and you're the act of type of sexual partner. There are a bunch of studies and people in quotation marks and people speculating on them is, you know, is saving up and not knitting before sport competition or a big lift actually effective. A lot of these studies are conducted very poorly and have answered no questions at all when I will tell you is this. If you're just jerking it, is jerking it like the day before or the day of a big important super big lift or sport competition, going to somehow magically sap all of your strength? No. But I will say, waiting a few days without jerking it or if you're that kind of person, even a whole week, not sure if I'm remade it a week, maybe once it was a bad week. Towards the end of that time, it's not that you're going to somehow get magical performance benefits. But if you haven't knudded in about a few days or a week, depending on your own, how often you get horny, you got this extra special kind of violent fucking energy, this substance got to happen to it. It can give you theoretically a little bit of an edge. Now, if you've tried this and it just causes you to be a bit disoriented and a bit like shitty priorities, you're supposed to be running your track and field race and the girls teams walk in behind or they're like, well, I'm not here for anyway, but obviously don't do it. But you can experiment. If you do feel a little bit more gusto before, you know, an athletic competition for a few days or even up to a week, you don't not at all, I say go for it because clearly, if it works for you, it works for you. And the theory generally says that, like, yes, absolutely, if you haven't knudded in a while, you're going to have a bit more go get our energy for sure. A lot of times, people take that insight for essentially masturbation and they try to slot in sex. I've literally seen comments, sections in which they'd like to see it doesn't matter if you're being before tournament. This study says it doesn't matter, but a whole bonus second that really doesn't matter what your idea of being is. Because if you four hour straight, do the horizontal and vertical when upside down and 69, whatever, mom-mo, then it ends up being that you can really fatigue the shit out of yourself. You can absolutely reduce your jump height, your power, your strength, your ability to do reps because you just put in a ton of work and thus fatigue and absolutely that will cost you. If you have a super big, important leg workout coming up tomorrow, you got to, you know, I'm saying, you got to tell these, how is the back of the fuck up? Don't worry, I'll have tips on how to do that next. Lastly, if you are having loads of the good stuff the night before you're trying to train really hard and you're not attending to your hydration and nutrition, you could absolutely show up to the gym, glycogen depleted because you burn off tons of glycogen, doing the nasty and you could come and dehydrate it. A quintessential thing to do after sex is two things actually. 80 styled, you lay in bed and smoke a cigarette in bed, which now watching those moves in retrospect is fucking weird and kind of gross, but it's something that has to be done. A lot of times you want to go to that fridge and get you a nice, big glass of orange juice it provides hydration and replete glycogen. So if you're going to do a shitload of banging before hard workouts or competitions, make sure that you're at least staying hydrated or rehydrating and make sure you're eating well, make yourself in her or sandwich. That's right, 203. We flip the gender roles to make sure people are recovering. If this is a situation you've run into before and if you have a huge amount of trouble resisting the sex, don't worry, I have a few tips for you. If it performance is your number one and you've got a big lift or a big powerlifting competition or a boxing match or soccer match or even just you Saturday legs is going to be popping. It's week four, right before D-Load. I got to be on my a game a couple of quick tips for you guys to be able to avoid this ever present seductive sex that keeps happening to you in your life. First, my recommendations don't take this too far. I'll tell you why in a bit. First, stay away from the grocery store, to problems the grocery store. Too many phallic objects, cucumbers and shit. You know, your food, your boys starts touching on that shit. Everyone's looking mostly the boys. They're also tons of milks. There's the frozen foods. I have the nipple thing. I don't even have to say it. grocery store as a disaster or don't go to the store. Next, no beaches, no pools, no fountains, no ponds, no lakes, board shorts. If you're in them, people are going to want to have sex with you. Anytime I get to board shorts, costety battle, four months later, four months, how long to babysit? Four years. I knew I said something wrong. And definitely no libraries. If you've ever seen adult films, libraries are chock-full of nerd girls, dress like waifu, schoolgirl thing, and the classes, and they're pretending to read a book, really just there to give blow jobs. And that's no good. Clubs are okay. Mostly because when you go to the club, like I do all the time, you get the rope off around your table, bottle service. The club's more about hanging with your boys than these hoes. You feel me? How about the club? Don't you dare fucking come up to me. Lastly, this is really a big issue. If you have a super important competition to work out, go to grandma's house, hide out for a bit. Write my grandma's house. She's like, these hoes are on your shit again. How am I grandma? You know what I'm saying? Turn on golden girls. Let's chill a bit. I'm gonna take a break from these hoes. Have this great work out, great competition, great whatever. And then I come back around. And I go to the grocery store, the pool, everything. Collect these fucking coins, like Mario Brothers, and do it up. Folks, best of luck to you, staying on the straight narrow, and girls. Hello. I've never talked to a girl before. But I think they're nice. See you next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pyrrization, and today's high-perchography myths video is about a salacious topic. That's right Google that word. The myth is that the big guys have some kind of really special insight into how to grow muscle in this you should really really really Prioritize what they're saying over what other people are saying about how to get jacked We're going to break this down as usual. We're going to talk about what the myth really is. Talk about some of the silver linings. All myths have a little bit of truth to them. Even most people say like, oh I can see ghosts. I don't know them. Where the silver lining is for that. I guess in the realization that the brain is what hell will listen again? But yeah in any case, most myths have something to teach us. Then we're going to talk about the bad stuff which is the stuff that makes it mythical and thus mostly bullshit and a little bit of real talk to sort of close the loop on this discussion. Okay, so the myth is most of the people say in stuff stuff like that guys huge he must really know how to train and diet super well. There's definitely something there, right? Okay, so I'm not entirely wrong. And then they'll say like, yeah science nerds say you know XYZ, this big guy at my gym says ABC, so I'm going to go with him man because he's huge. He's living the life like all right? And then there's another brand of statement like something like man if the science nerds really knew stuff, they'd be huge too. They'd all be the biggest guys. And I have mostly said by people who, you know G maybe school wasn't their number one thing in life. Don't worry, I'll have more insults to people's intelligence later in this episode. All right, the good and there's lots of good. Big guys clearly know something that worked. They're doing something that clearly worked because they're big. And this whole thing of hypertrophy is we're all trying to get big. Clearly they're on something. We actually know what they're on to at the very least. Most of them will know and be able to actually sort of declaratively say consistency is important. Progression is important. Show showing up to the gym regularly. Very rarely we have a big ibilek in and then in this two years because of COVID as I remember. Progression, big guys are usually good about putting some more weight on the bar every now and again adding a rapper to here and there, adding some sets, challenging themselves. And of course they're pretty good at hypercoolorically dieting with plenty of protein. You don't get to 240 pounds in most cases just by eating normally and being like, happiness is just like, palate and tada. Usually you have to eat lots of foods and they know about that. They know about eating when they don't want to eat and they know that protein's important. Usually at the very least. Consistency progression and a hypercooloric diet is more than most people know. And a lot of even smart gym nerds could use a fashion on the head with this every now and again. People get exotic into this crazy periodization shit and what about this one exercise for the lap that hits your lap this way? Okay, how many times you train your lap a week? Like why I just been playing around a little bit? Like okay, great. So you can actually train, got it. There's some shit there. There are some reality there. And on the other end, science nerd folks often say a lot of stuff that just doesn't work in real life because they haven't tried it yet or never tried it, no plans to try it. They'll just say stuff. And maybe because they tried it, but they didn't grow, but they have such shitty genetics and work ethic anyway that growth isn't something that's going to be doing much. A lot of times you get this especially with older folks, muscle nerds that are in their 40s, probably just won't ever be growing again. I know recommend a variety of training practices and RIRs and progressions that look interesting on paper, but they haven't tried them nor will they ever if they have them are trying them, it doesn't much matter because they're not in that phase of their life or net growth is even possible outside of using tons of steroids or something like that. So the last thing I'll say here is you don't have to religiously believe, don't worry. We'll get to that in a sec. What the big guys say and what they do is like the way to do things. And that everything that comes out of their mouths is something you're going to want to do. But you ignore the practices especially of the big guys to your detriment. I want to know what all the big guys are doing. That doesn't mean I'm going to do it all. I care a lot about what they're doing. I care much less about what they're saying because their words didn't get them muscle, their actions did. Much more curious about what they're doing and then I can sort of put the puzzle pieces together. I'll never ignore it. When tons of bodybuilders do some kind of practice, there's absolutely chance that it's just dumb as buckets the new fat. But there's also a chance like man, they're really, really out of something. And I wouldn't want to just be like, yeah, they're all idiots. Don't worry about it. I don't know. You should know about it, but then you should have a good sort of working concept in your brain that accepts tentatively or rejects ideas from bodybuilding that, oh yeah, like these big guys, this is something to try. They are discovering something interesting. On the other hand, some stuff you see from them, you'll be like, that guy's a fucking idiot. There's no way that works. I try to, it doesn't work. By a mechanic says it doesn't work. Physiology says it doesn't work. People do some dumb shit. Here's more on that. The bad stuff. It is super important to realize the following. I will place my reputation as a science communicator one of the fucking I am on this idea. The top reasons, the biggest guys are who they are looks like this. Number one, and I do mean number one. Amazing genetics. Okay, very good genetics at least. Number two, time spent training hard. And I mean years, that's how long it takes to get big. He almost certainly, big guys have really good genetics and have trained hard for years. Not that does not mean the details of their training are remotely optimal. That doesn't mean the details of the training got them as big as they could have been. That doesn't mean that the details of the training won't get you hurt. And they just got lucky. They just trained a long time. The details not so important. Number three is that they know how to eat in the sense that they've spent a lot of time eating and gaining weight, it does not have to be remotely ideal. One of the stupidest fucking things you'll ever see in your life, I ever saw in my life. When they do like day in the life of the bodybuilder and they give me a lot of fish in the comments, like why fish are not chicken? What? The fuck are you talking about? You know how many bodybuilders got big off chicken? Well, everyone else. So what's the thing with fish? It cannot be a good answer there. There does not exist a good answer. Never mind that on the nutritional physiology, the proteins I'll get broken down in a amino acids anyway and as long as the amino acids score as high, which is both high for fish and chicken, it doesn't fucking matter. It doesn't make basically any difference on hypertrophy, but you'll always get people that want the details. All right. Nick Walker does not have 23 inch arms because he ate like fish versus chicken. Forget about that shit. He does have fucking 23 inch arms or parv in the fucking big there. It's because he ate a lot of food when he didn't feel like eating a lot of food. He got up to like 300 pounds on a few occasions and voila, big ass arms. That's what you can take away from something like that. The details, look, sometimes may be very good, but they'll have to be explained in a way that makes sense. It's not the details that get most people checked. Lastly, folks that are really jacked oftentimes take anywhere from some to lots of drugs. And it doesn't even have to be remotely an ideal protocol design. I've seen some of the protocols on good word from top Olympians and some of them look fucking ridiculous. Tons of compounds that do more or less the same thing. Tons of variety and compounds where you don't need it. Tons of compounds introduced way too early, taken out way too late, ones that contradict each other. But mostly what matters about how generally jack you get from drugs is like how many drugs you do. If you take 500 migs a week, you'll get pretty jacked. Take a 1000, get more jack, 2000 more jack, 4,000 more jacked, 5000 hospital, or some shit like that. There is a rich piano limit. All right, P. In any case, genetics training hard for years eating a ton for years and taking sometimes loads of drugs are such powerful effectors and such powerful mediators of muscle size that they explain a huge fraction. Not all, but maybe like 80 to 90 percent of the reason that the biggest guys in the jam are bigger than you. Notice that nothing on that list is nuanced technical knowledge about R. R. Going to failure, technique for exercises, exercise selection, exercise selection interaction like do I do rows after deadlifts or before, work out splits, frequencies, taper designs, accumulation, none of that shit. Here's the problem. Here's what the myth comes from. A lot of times we go to our biggest guys for those very things. I mean, like, hey, what do you think about like a double progression? Does that make that on the fucking list? No. So anytime you ask a huge guy, you can be sure they know these things and do them. Everything else, it's up in the air and a lot of times I'm going to say something kind of mean. You know more than nuances than they do, because you are 24 years old and you took up lifting two years ago and you did starting strength for six months and now you're into RP or whatever, if 3DMJ, whatever you're into and you're a mechanical engineer by trade. That's your day job, which means sorry, forgive me, you are a category or two smarter than the average jacked person at your gym. You're just smarter. And you have access to reading and viewing video materials that talk about reps and loads and manipulations and failure proximities that is an intellectual stratosphere that many of these people who are super jacked, they don't even have the ability to process that data. That's like me trying to listen to a Lex Freeman podcast about some guy talking about like Python code. Fuck, I know Python all I know is you just stick for that motherfucker. Get away from me, snake. Apparently there's the code in there and there's seas and pluses and more pluses. I don't know any of that shit. I just have no clue. A lot of times if you ask a fucking super jacked dude at the gym, details on shit, and he starts to sound real dumb or contradictory. Don't worry, he probably doesn't have some special Richard Feynman like insight on the shit that nobody else got. Unlikely, he's probably just the guy that does this and does this and does that involve. And now you're asking about shit, this is not in his wheelhouse to know. If he was at your intellectual level, that's right you. He would be at that. And it would then you would be talking to John Jew and I if we be pro or Jared either I if we pro or a 10 other guy as I can mention that a real fucking sharp and then you would get a great answer, but it's not a guarantee not even close. So how can we use the wisdom of the big guys in context? I think it's probably good idea to let the big guys remind you a few things like training hard as important. Training hard consistently for years is even more important. Eating well is important. Eating well consistently for years is important. Like if you go and eat well and then you got to go to an engineering conference in Europe for two weeks and you barely eat at all, you barely train at all, you come back, you've lost a shit, let a muscle. Well, the fuck that's on you. You should have been fucking flipping through your Instagram and TikTok, a pro bodybuilders and you're like, oh yeah, I'm one of these people. Bodybuilders that is I'm we find a gym here in Munich or some shit like that. Let me get some fucking protein in my face. That shit fucking matters. The people who do the best in the sport long term, the people just get most jack long term, I have the motherfuckers that they take breaks here and there a couple of weeks here and there, but they just generally don't quit. And also, remember, when looking at the pros that drugs in genetics matter on, so if you watch like something like coach cast them shit, I'm like how the fuck I hit the left. And you're like, man, that's really insightful shit and you seem to think it's a good idea. Then you see some jacked up bodybuilders to gym, doing half bento over rosler, and you're like, huh, and it doesn't seem like it really hits the lats all that well. Does this guy know something cast them doesn't? No, fuck no, but that instant of seeing him can remind you that genetics are hell of a thing and drugs are hell of a thing. And just doing this with good genetics and drugs when you eat a lot and you do this day and a day out for several years, you will get jacked. Is it the most optimal fuck no? Is it efficient hell no? Will you probably get hurt doing it? Yes. So do not copycat that shit. Speaking of copycating, what if you want specific information? Are sets of 10 better than sets of 15? Is too r i r better than going to failure? Any shit like that? Are the big guys good sources of info? Probably not. They can be good sources of info, but not reliably better than just regular, at least semi-intelligent people that train and read stuff on the internet. They just don't have much more of an insight and they certainly don't know more than the science nerds in the industry. So for example, I'll just see you give you an individual Eric Traxler, Google him, look him up. Not a big guy. He weighs like 160 or something. He's 5758, just this guy. They've been shredded to ship before for competition. But he's not enormous. You see him training in a sweatshirt at your gym and you see jujoo's headmick pimple steam over here. I must said jujoo headmick pimple steam. Where's the mirror? Hey, is that's funny? Do you Scott the video guy? You anti-smetic fuck? This is a bit of tension. This is a last warfare here in the studio. Fridian slip. You would look at jujoo's headmick pimple steam and be like, holy fuck, that guy knows things. And somebody'd be like, you do know that that's Eric Traxler with the flies out. That guy right there? Like, huh? But there's no way he'd yeah. Oh yeah. 10 times more. Eric Traxler knows than this fucking guy right here. Almost certainly. But how can you tell? Well, Google has shit and you start reading it. Holy fuck, this guy's makes a lot of fucking sense, man. If you're a thinker, if you're just a fucking wild animal, it, errr, or a fucking don't reach it, reading his boring, then letters are all weird shape. I can't have the same shape. Why should gotta be so confusing is what I'm trying to say? So definitely have your ear to the street. Definitely know what the big guys are doing. More and what they're saying a little less, but still be in the note. So that you don't miss any obvious good gems. At the same time, look to the science nerds, read their shit for sure, watch their videos podcast, and then synthesize the two shits through your own experience to come up with the best answer. Science nerds get shit wrong. They get an all theoretical and then they're fucking small. Jacked up, juice had dudes get shit wrong all the fucking time, they have no idea what's going on. It's like asking a fish how it swims. What? They don't even have a cann verbally communicate language and some pros can't do that either. At the end of the day, there's no religion and bodybuilder. Other than Scientology, will they sue us for that, Scott? Let's be easy on the Scientology jokes. In any case, there's no dogma. What's that? Westboro Baptist Church. Westboro Baptist Church. They'll come after you, right? In any case, just do shit that passes all of your filters, which means you've experienced it and it seems to work. It makes sense from basic logic perspective like the fucking nerds say. And also it seems like at its core, it's something that would seem like it would work for the pros and the big guys if they knew about it, slash they sort of do it anyway. If that all mixes in, great. We don't want you to do. It's been like, fuck a work for honey, it's working for me. You've been fucking do better than that. And definitely don't be the guy that's like, I read in a study of a carbon-1965, and a journal of my exercise that you're not a biologist and you're a shout-up, get out of your nerd. Here's your fucking school lunch in your face, get to the gym. In any case, think I've offended just about everyone, including myself. Like, subscribe, comment, hit that notification bell. I've been watching some other YouTubers and they say things like that. And we've got a member section with more nerds, shit, but also people are juiced up in it too. Those are kind of juiced up everywhere on this channel. See you guys next time.

Calorie balance? How much food you intake versus how much energy you expend? Accounts for about 80% of fat loss results and pretty much almost 100% of weight loss result. Eating healthy causes you to eat fewer calories with less hunger, causing you to sustainably fewer calories, causing you to lose more weight. Period. So what the hell is the debate about? Is this just click bait? I promise it's not before you click away. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. My question for you today is eating healthy, more important than calorie counting in order to lose weight and fat. We'll go ahead and answer the question in your own time. I'll put it in the comments. I'll wait. Aren't. You can pause the video if you need more time. If your goal is to get leaner and lose weight, what's more important? Calorie counting or eating healthier? The answer here may be a bit different than you think. It's different than what I used to think even some short time ago, so let's take a look at it really quick. First, fundamentally, your calorie intake is way more important to weight loss success than the composition of your food, for example, whether your food is more healthy or less healthy. In fact, calorie balance, how much food you intake versus how much energy you expend, accounts for about 80% of fat loss results, because sometimes it's more or less muscle, and pretty much almost 100% of weight loss results. So what the hell is the debate about? Is this just clickbait? I promise it's not before you click away. The saying healthy food matters more or whatever than calorie, how can that be when calories are everything for weight loss and 80% of fat loss? Well, here's the thing. Calorie counting is not the same thing as eating a low calorie diet. In fact, the success most folks have with purely counting calories as the diet itself is actually quite low. Why? Like, how does that make sense? Calorie counting doesn't lead to very good weight loss outcomes and fat loss outcomes? What gives? It's because the number one factor in how much humans eat and thus how much weight they lose or don't lose is emodulated. There's modulation by hunger. The hunger year you get, the tougher it becomes to meet your goal calories and everyone has a breaking point am I right? Except for Scott the video guy who is infinite, absolutely audacious, willpower and drive. You know, for now, again, I look at Scott and I'm like, is that Mr. Gagganz or or is that Jaco Willink that I see? No, it's Scott the video guy even more handsome. But if they had a baby together, but with him. Yeah, like a baby, but that with who gave birth to that baby? It came out their butt. The butt baby. Oh, okay. That was Scott's video guy everybody. Thank you. Unless you're Scott the video guy, the hunger you get, the tougher it gets to meet your goal calories and the more likely it is that you'll either eat above your goal calories and lose less weight or just fall off the plan because you're like, I have to eat how many calories today, 1500 that I'm out and then you're just not on the plan. You're losing no weight. So you can count calories all you want and it absolutely can help if you can actually stick to the plan. But if you eat foods that control hunger very well, you can actually eat low calories like you planned on for long enough to lose lots of weight and lots of fat. Actually eating the lower calories is the thing that gives you success. It's if calorie counting was the ultimate or on a plane what your altitude is like, like, they old in the out of Jones like 20,000, 17,000, 15,000, 13,000, I mean, I think we're going to crash soon. If that that's just the turned out that shows your altitude, then healthy food that can fill you up with tons of nutrients but keep your hunger levels really low is like the fuel that goes into the plane. The healthy food is actually what's allowing you to fly the plane. The fuel is the thing that propels the plane. The ultimate or just tells you which way you're going so you can count calories and that's a great way to see if you're on the right track. But getting yourself on the right track to a diet, you can actually follow because the hunger isn't driving you insane and pushing you off the plan is much more a matter of eating healthy foods than it is of eating whatever foods you want to fill up your your my fitness pal calorie tracker with. Now when we say healthy foods here at RP, we usually mean minimally processed combination of lean proteins, veggies, fruits, whole grains and healthy fats like avocado, canola oil, olive oil, nuts, nut butters, broccoli, tomatoes, green peppers, brown rice, quinoa, oatmeal, steak, chicken, ground turkey, guys not rocket science. If you can point to it in wonder if it's healthy food, it's probably not healthy food in the conventional understanding. When people eat these foods, you know, kind of boring foods if you think about it, they end up eating very filling low calorie density foods way more than if they just yellow their diet and just fit the calories however with poptarts and panic. Their actual calories get reduced to tonne and guess what happens? Their body weights get reduced to tonne as well. Eating healthy causes you to eat fewer calories with less hunger, causing you to sustainably if your calories causing you to lose more weight period. Whereas calorie tracking is like, eh, I'm going to track my calories. Like, okay, you can actually eat the calories that you want. You're like, I'm not too hungry. Scott, it's like getting a regular card wondering why it won't go 200 miles an hour even though it has a spedometer. But I'm stepping on the gas, it can even be there. Those symbols can be there and you won't ever get to that speed. So here's the thing. It's not just enough to eat healthy. Healthy food, peanut butter, anybody can still get you over your calorie needs, especially if you're losing a lot of weight in your hunger hormones kick up and they're like, dude, you better be eating way more peanut butter than that and you're like, oh, yes, sir, Mr. hormone. Oh, gee, what is I sure hope I don't fail? And then 50s kid ends up fat 50s kid because he couldn't control himself because too much peanut butter. But starting with healthy foods and then counting the calories to make sure you don't over eat your healthy foods is very likely to help you lose fat and wait more than simply starting and ending with calorie counting and just being like, while filling the calories kind of with whatever I grays along upon them the day because you're going to eat some junky foods. They're going to make your hunger go up. You're going to not be able to last through the night by eating a normal healthy foods. You're going to go off plan. So in a theoretical sense, calorie intakes are the biggest thing that allows you to lose weight, period. But in a practical sense the way you get to dependably lower calories is eating healthier without raising your hunger which is to say eating traditionally healthy foods. That's what actually keeps your calories in range and actually lets you lose weight. Now hold on a sec, you might be thinking to yourself curious viewer that you are doesn't this kind of thing go out the window now that people have access to these new modern weight loss drugs like tris appetites at Manjaro, all those things. Isn't like the hunger kind of turned out set by the drugs. So it's yellow on the food sources as long as I'm eating whatever the hell I can do calorie counting really easy. If I have the drug to keep my appetite pretty restricted, not so fast. There is truth to that that for any given dog shit way you're eating, you'll get leaner doing it with tris appetit. But there's a better way to do this. In fact, healthy eating has a super synergy with modern weight loss drugs instead of a substitution and replacement kind of effect. It's like once you get amazing the 3D surround sound speakers, how much less valuable is your big screen TV because now you have speakers you don't need that thing. No whole lot of seconds. They actually work with each other so that one of them is made better by the other. It's better to have an awesome TV and amazing speakers. Not just one or the other. So why is this a thing with weight loss drugs in healthy food? Why are weight loss drugs in healthy foods that it's got like two, um, um, what birds mate for life? Scott, um, do I have a maybe? Yeah, why not? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, that was basically a ornithology class as far as I could tell. And Scott, they did two birds are sitting on a wire, right? And let's assume they have English speech and high intellectual throughput. And it's like it's like year 59 for the birds, right? One is healthy diet and one is tris appetite. What do you think they're typical conversation? It's like. Yeah, but I know Scott. Yeah. As you know, the male birds like have been a, been a while hasn't at Betsy and she's like she's got the elongated sigretches. Yeah, Gerald. So it has. Yeah, been a while. She's the kid. Yeah. Yeah. And that's it. You guys ever wonder what bird calls her about? Nothing stupid bullshit. They're talking about nothing. Just like a couple in the 1955 small New York apartment. You don't really care what they're talking about. What's oh yeah, that's right. So if you were eating high calorie density foods, especially those high and sugar and especially high and fat, which is like all junk food, those tend to cause way higher rates of GI distress upset tummy. Scott, do you want to say a medical term? The Hershey Squirts? Or the out of your mouth Hershey Squirts. Now I'm not saying you're vomiting poop. It could get pretty bad folks. When you're on these drugs, the probability you're really sick from fast food and junk food is just like super super high way higher than normal. If you say to yourself, I'm on these drugs. I'm going to have pizza, but just a little bit of pizza, even a little bit of pizza can throw you way off. And that's why a lot of the people who try these drugs and fail with them, that I thought I couldn't it. GI distress was too high. Now hold on a sec. Here's a really cool benefit. Eating healthy on these drugs as described, all grains, all of fruits and veggies, all that stuff, lean meats, can reduce GI distress substantially, which can radically improve your adherence to the diet and adherence to the drugs. If to that diet is tearing or stomach in a piece, is you're going to stop taking it. And if the you can't stick to a good diet, you're going to stop doing that as well. But if you take your Zapatide knew it really, really healthy, you can have a really good time with your Zapatide very few downsides. And your eating healthy is now super empowered because you hardly feel hung all from that sort of situation, but it gets even better. These drugs reduce your junk food cravings. So you're supposed to be eating healthy and now it's easier for you to eat healthy because you're like, I'll eat healthy. Pizza doesn't seem as lustrous as it once was. And there's another benefit. These drugs plus a healthy diet, so check this out. If you have your typical pretty tasty diet, you take a certain dose of drug, you're going to have a lower hunger, and thus your resultant calories are going to be lower. Now remember, healthy food isn't a super hyper palatable hyper delicious. You don't tend to overeat it as much. It's also a lower calorie density. So normally without the drug, you could eat like pretty low calories and stick to it if they were healthy. With the drug, that falls even further. So if you could lose a pound a week on Tersapatide with whatever foods, if you go to healthy foods, you might lose a pound and a quarter per week or a pound and a half per week because you could drive your calories down. And first of all, less GI distrusts you're more consistent on the diet. And second of all, you just fill up all the time because G's, the stuff isn't even making you hung great anymore, hardly at all. Healthy food, plusters appetite and a pretty decent dose. Oh my god, man, you can stick to a diet no problem. And for a bonus benefit, it should just keep getting better. You kind of have to eat healthier, more nutritious foods. If you're on a low calorie diet because you need your food to have vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals and fiber and protein. And if you're like doing bullshit junk foods, then bad, I don't know where, you know, you're on a thousand calories a day of hardly nothing. And that's really bad for you. It's not great for your long-term health. And it's not great for your feeling really good and energized on the diet, cognitively or physically. But if you eat healthy food with the power of modern weight loss drugs to get you to do it better, not only is it better for the drugs, it's more sustainable, it causes more weight loss. But now because you're eating healthier, you're checking all the boxes at a low calorie density, still getting all your nutrition. Just at the end of the diet, you can be more successful, lighter, leaner, healthier, and feel better all the same time. So not only do healthy foods make taking weight loss drugs easier, they also make the drugs let you lose more weight and keep you healthy when you're dieting. That's one hell of a combo of wins you guys. So it's not to say it's very false to say that, well, with water weight loss drugs, you could just eat whatever and lose weight. That's true. But it's very false because it screws up the dichotomy of if you had eaten healthy with those weight loss drugs, you would have been even more successful by a long shot. That's a big deal. So yeah, eating a diet of minimally processed healthy foods like lean proteins, veggies, fruits, whole grains, healthy fats might in the real world. Be more important than calorie counting to realistically lose weight and fat. That means if you're trying to lose weight, choose your healthy foods first. Not literally, but as a commitment, I'm going to eat healthy, almost all the meals on this diet. And then you build your meals, and you get the macros and calories you're going to do anyway, you build health right into there. Versus, saying, I need this many macros and this many calories, what I eat is an afterthought. No, no, no, what you eat is thought number one because that healthy food inclusion is a huge superpower that allows you to less be healthier, be more sustainable, and achieve better results without weight loss drugs and with weight loss drugs, both just the same. Technically speaking, if you're using weight loss drugs, health, the eating pays even more premiums, which is why it's especially upsetting for me to see people like, man, I hate your zepatide, screw it up my gut, I'm like, what are you eating? They're like, well, I rubbed to fudge brownies on pizza one day, and that's how I started the day. I'm like, oh, boss, these drugs cost money. You might as well like, get your money's worth by not screwing up your diet. What's missing from all of this? No, an app that can help you organize your nutrition, set your time tables for weight loss or weight gain, check in with you meal by meal, day by day for wands and meal check ins, take a picture, and the AI does all the rest, and you know how much food you're eating, all of that shit is in the works in development or already a feature in the RP diet coach app, which is available on all the places you find the cool apps. Get a look at that, and listen, I wish that it was ideal to eat pizza and Scott, what's the most absurd candy from the 90s that's probably illegal now. Remember like candy rope like you would squirt it out of a squater and you could type a fedically eat it? I would say there are so much, but I'm like, I'm blanking now. Gushers, I'm a gushers, it was like a candy surrounding and like a liquid inside like, yeah, we had like fireballs that like you couldn't eat them because it would like break your teeth. Yes, the heart you couldn't like chew them apart. Yes, I can't eat a design to hurt children. I keep rocks. I love it. Yeah, so I wish that was the way to get leaner, but it turns out healthy food is such an amazing thing from so many different perspectives that if you learn to eat healthy and eat really well, that's going to be the thing that unlocks health, unlocks fat loss, unlocks weight loss, calorie counting is a tool you lay are on top of that, but calorie counting by itself, not the best diet. Give that some thought. Let us know what you think in the comments. RP diet coach app check that out on the app stores and I'll see you guys next time.

Honestly, making things again as is always the case in Hollywood, melessly complicated for no fucking reason at all. Ha! Hey folks, I'm Dr. Mike Isrtele and I am a sport science professor at Leem & College in New York City. I am the creator of the RP Hiperchewy app and I'm going to look at Kubao Nangiani's transformation or at a workout that got him transformed for his role in the eternal's this guy got jacked. That's fine, how. This is what they call a glow up, who mayle Nangiani thrown up at the Trenaglow for a long time. Oh, it's a set of things. I'm going to show you some of my favorite moves today. We're going to be doing it. He definitely started out not jacked. Now that then picture was quite a while ago. I think he's like 45 years old or something. So he's this is incredible. This is incredible. What's this thing? We're on the power plate. This is a pre-activation tool. Power plate activation. What does it mean? Power plate. That's what it works very dynamically. It's a vibrate side and side front to back and up and down. Okay. So the power plate is a machine that is vibrational. All it does is the plate vibrates really, really fast. It feels kind of strange. There's one research confirmed. I used to work on power plate research directly. One research confirmed benefit of power plate as well. You're on it. You actually able to be much more flexible when you're on it. So it's really fun to do stretches on it. Does it get oxygen into your legs or something? No, absolutely not. That's fucking absurd. And the power plate by the way does nothing else. This is actually multiplying come out as weight because of the vibration pattern. Actually creates a G force. And right now his quads are contracting and relaxing. 1500 times in this 30 second interval. Yes. So the power plate people and I've read their manual and whole proposal. They say that the forces exerted are insanely high because the vibrations are really fast. The thing is your passive structures take up all of that slack, which is why his brain isn't goo right now because it was a really high G forces who be broken into bits. That also means that it just shakes a little bit guys. It does nothing but shake. His quads are absolutely not contracting and relaxing. 1500 times in any fucking interval. That's nonsense. His quads are just completely contracted right now because he's in a fucking half squat. Ah, first of all we're doing is the circus what I don't like doing legs. Ah, the zurtier squat. The zurtier squat is something done by two groups of people. One strong man who need to get strong in it and two people who have run out of exercises they actually want to do and have left their creativity veer off into the non-sensical. The zurtier squat is a fine movement but needlessly stresses your upper body, especially your back and your biceps and your shoulders. So you have to maintain this upright posture. Doing a back squat or even a front squat or a leg press or a hax quad or lunge would be way better stimulus to fatigue ratio for the legs. But it's not as cool and as fun as different. And as a trainer I suppose you have to sell yourself as different because the good old usual is just don't sell training sessions anymore. He tricks me into doing squats by saying it does a lot of abs. So the zurtier squat does not do a lot of abs because the weight is pulling you down which means your back has to do the work to pull you back up. Your abs pull you forward and the forward pull would mean you just dump the weight. First straight nonsense. So my favorite chest exercise is low cables, coos and what you do is pull these cables you bring your hands together. You sort of hold them water and then you raise it up a little bit and you try to not engage your delts at all. The raising just trains your front delts mostly. The scooping part is a good exercise for your chest. You could just raise up to the front and actually just train your upper chest that way. But what do I know? I'm just a professor of the shit. So in order for him to lift the weight up after the scoop has occurred it almost exclusively is forced generated by the front delts. There's no way to not have your delts do this. Also instead of coming up with his chest and using the chest whole concentric to give a good chest stimulus he comes up the easy way low, training mostly the mid and lower fibers of the chest not even the upper chest which is probably things he's targeting here and then doing a halfway raise for the shoulders which is the concentric only through a not lengthened range of motion, not a very effective shoulder exercise and honestly making things again as is always the case in Hollywood. Needlessly complicated for no fucking reason at all. My favorite shoulder exercise is the delts giant set and while like it is you can hit all three good front delts exercise so far so good we already had one with the chest quote unquote exercise we'll see you in double up on front delts. You'll see what I mean three sets and just try and do as many as you can on the left. I can technique on laterals. Starts totally fine and then rear delts okay so this is a problem here. You can front raise way more than you can side raise way more than you can rear lateral raise and thus there's a fundamental misloading problem. We should really be doing if you want to do this exercise with more effect is take much lighter dumbbells do the rear lateral raises first bent over then come up and do the second hardest lateral raises after and then do the front raises which are the easiest you'll actually the fatigue curve will follow you along and you won't be needlessly going hard on one muscle while leaving the other muscle just way too tired to do any meaningful reps. So this is actually done backwards. I like the intention that it's done wrong. You know the terrible technique is doing a lot of shrugging there because the dumbbells are too heavy playing in simple. I don't think I can let her raise that much and I'm like five times this guy's size. By steps with the East and my love it got to keep me guessing. We're going to electrocute the male on television. We're going to apply these pants to his bicep. We're going to start with seven crossbody curls with the twists. Good that twists to activate the outside of the p to the bicep. The twist is not activated the outside peak of the bicep that's nonsense but it does train the bicep. This is a fine exercise using East and is also fine. It can let you have a better mind muscle connection. We'll say that for most Hollywood folks that are not trying to be professional bodybuilders and don't really have any limiting factors just training hard with good technique means you can save the many minutes it takes to set this thing up. You can do exercise by yourself. This is a thing that really only benefits real pro bodybuilders that have one muscle group or two muscle groups that they seemingly can't hit very well themselves. This is just a preposterous waste of time for everybody involved. We'll try some time. For triceps I like doing dips. It's a good transition going from chest to triceps as I said I find training arms boring. Training arms is boring and leg training sucks. This guy loves to work out. I try and get about 25 reps. He could go down a little slower. He could pause at the bottom and he could go a little bit deeper but honestly these are really really good dips. So my favorite back exercise these quadric cable rows. I like this one because you can really engage the load. Guys, if you squat down to cable row it takes the focus and effort and intensity and energy and insert word here off of the back where all of it is supposed to be because you're training the back and it puts it needlessly on the legs and an isometric position which doesn't even confer that much advantage especially for muscle growth. This is exactly prototypical of Hollywood fancy exercise fucking nonsense. Just sit down on the ground and fucking do cable rows. What's kept me going to the gym is changing up the workout, finding exercise that I like and mixing things up all the time. If you want good results don't mix things up all the time. Pick a goal and slowly progressively overload like the RPI per trophy output automatically do for you instead of doing random shit all the time. He's just saying is doing random shit all the time. You want random results? You do random shit all the time. It's nice to continue to be interested working out through doing fun stuff. I'm not against that but try to set some directionality to your fun stuff. Do a couple weeks of supersets. Then a couple weeks of regular straight sets. A couple weeks of drop sets at a time and try to progress in those couple weeks. Don't just run a nonsense at your body. Alright. That wasn't terrible. The movements were okay for the most part. A needless fluff around them. The dips were awesome. The rows were good if he would have sat down. Those are your spots where fine except do with it not everything differently. A lateral raises were good but out of order. The biceps was needless electric stem but actually good movements. I don't know why I even rate these things anymore. I'm feeling happy going lucky today. Six out of ten. See you guys next time.

Some people claim that high reps toned the muscle instead of bulking it. Another one you might have heard is that high reps increase muscle definition by etching in the detail. High reps help you sweat out more fat. Those reasons are all non-reasons. For why you should consider doing some slightly higher reps during a fat loss phases, then during your muscle gain phases or maintenance phases. However, there are actually good reasons. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength and High reps are better for cutting. What is it like a hook? Is this a myth? Nope, I actually mean this. Here's what I'm saying. When you are in a fat loss phase in your physique training, you might want to consider biasing your rep ranges a little bit more into the 10 to 20 range or even the 15 to 20 range and bias it a little less on average and most lift away from the 5 to 10 rep range and especially away from the 3 to 5 rep range. Now you've probably heard this before, high reps are better than cutting type of stuff. And you might have even heard of a few reasons why, but the problem is that many most of the reasons you've heard before are total BS nonsense. There are good reasons that exist. Most of the reasons you've heard are the bad reasons. So let's look at some of the common ones that are just non-starters. First, let us know in the comments if you've heard these before, or even heard some that we're not going to list here. Some people claim that high reps toned the muscle instead of bulking it. Here's what toning is. A reduction in fat which occurs outside of the muscle, or an increase in muscle size or some combination of both. There is nothing that happens to the muscle per se other than growing it or shrinking it that is anything like toning. It's a magical transmutation of muscle or fat. It's a real simple. There's two tissues, muscle and fat, decreased fat, increased muscle, that's toning. Some combination of those two. Toning is not a thing that you do with different reps. It's a barely even a cogent concept. Bulking a muscle versus toning a muscle is some shit they told women in the 1990s so that it didn't get scared away from lifting weights. Another one you might have heard is that high reps increased muscle definition by carving the strations in there. Scott, have you heard that one etching in the detail? Oh yes, there is absolutely no mechanism by which this happens. If you strip away the fat your muscle is exactly as straight as it will ever be it can just get bigger or smaller. And why wouldn't low reps etch the strations, which isn't a thing, any better than high reps, it's nonsense from start to finish. If someone tells you this in the gym, just smile and not go, dough, I quit that hard you feel me and you walk that L away forever from that very nice person. Another thing that some of these that I was reviewing and I sent a chatchupetean a fact-finding mission to tell me some other stuff from its huge corpus of training and some of these I'm like, whoa, I haven't heard these in a long time but I absolutely remember hearing them as far back as in the 90s. Some people still talk in that ish. High reps keep the muscle smaller and more compact so that you don't get bulky. Here's the problem with that. We have unbelievably convincing research to show that anywhere between five reps and about 30 reps as long as the set gets close to failure cause exactly the same amount of muscle growth set for set. So if you're doing high reps and Scott, I've legitimately seen women do like very hard sets of 15 and then straight up tell me after that they don't want to get bulky that's why they don't do sets of five which is like it is especially funny thing to see. I'm just you know because I'm trying to encourage female hypertrophy and I'm like yeah for sure try my reps to 15 and you'll definitely not really your quads anymore and then I go to the bathroom, I think about large female quads, I take out my you know what and I do you know what to that now. If you think in that you know what is something inappropriate you are sick and you need serious attention. You need to go read scripture. You know I'm saying read you the Quran of the Torah or the New Testament. Scott what other other religious books can you read if you're a bad person and you'd help? Pretty good. Pretty good. Yeah yeah you sicko. Another one you hear a bunch is high reps harden the muscle. You guys the muscle again almost all the change is a muscle gets a bigger or smaller. The directions of the fibers can shift but that is microscopic. Hardening the muscle is not a thing. If you get leaner the muscles look harder. If you have more androgens the muscle actually feels harder but like we're not talking about steroids here folks we're talking about high reps. The funny thing is about this one is that a lot of people say heavy weights and low reps harden the muscle and then they talk about Scott if you're a herd of muscle density. You ever hear that like man that guy's got really dense muscle. What does that mean? How? How is that possible guys? It's muscle is muscle is muscle. The density thing is just dead on a rival. Another one and this one was one of those chatchipy t ones where I was like wow I haven't heard this in a while. This is definitely a real thing real human say. High reps help you sweat out more fat. You guys sweat is water and electrolytes. There's no fat on your sweat. You don't sweat out your fat. Scott could you imagine the Jim clothing laundry situation if that was actually the case? That would be sweet. Oh my god why go work out just getting the sauna and sweat the fat right out? God that would be awesome. It would make any mechanistic sense but we can pretend. Although hot and heavy sex would be kind of weird. Or uh I mean you solve the loop problem sort of. Do you take your hand? Ugh. squeegee her back. Ooh I want that out of my head. Thank you for that now everyone can you welcome tune in from more knowledge something and one that has a little bit of truth but not nearly enough truth to make a difference is that high reps burn more calories and the calories come from fat and thus you get leaner and you're cutting so hey might as well. The thing is is that low reps sets and high reps sets burn such a tiny time. In almost industry we should be different amount of calories because a critical low reps sets sets of eight you guys the recovery demand for a hard set of eight is massive and high reps do burn more calories but it's the equivalent of like half a banana for a whole two hour lifting session. It just basically doesn't show up in the nap balance and lifting weights is just not the greatest cardio compared to you know cardio and the number one way that you burn calories is just a calorie deficit from your diet anyway. Get you your 10,000 to 12,000 steps a day. Get you your hardcore training the point of training is to stimulate anti-catabillism which is low prevention of muscle loss and to stimulate muscle growth. That's why you train even during a cot that's the only reason you're training. Don't get into the gym unless you're just in there for general fitness but if you want elite levels of muscle growth and elite levels of leanness don't start pretending that your weight training workout has anything to do with burning calories that is for your diet and your overall activity and that's the best way to leave it. You don't want to kind of poison the situation. It's like using your like sedan also as a truck so you like put gravel into the back seats when you need to. It mixes up the two things they don't need to be next. If you don't have a lot of time you can both put gravel into your back seat and use your lifting for cardio as well and that's totally cool. But if you're looking for optimal outcomes you got to make sure the weight stick to the muscle growth situation and the muscle loss prevention and the caloric deficit from your diet and helpful caloric deficit from your 10 to 12,000 steps a day or whatever other cardio modality you want to do regularly that's really what's going to cause the most difference there. So those reasons are all non-reasons for why you should consider doing some slightly higher during a fat loss phases then during your muscle gain phases or maintenance phases. However, there are actually good reasons not a ton of them but these are reasons that are compelling enough for me to make a whole video for you guys and for Scott and Max to edit it in a whole thing because it does make a difference at the margins and you probably should be doing slightly higher reps during your fat loss phases. Here are some of the most convincing reasons. When you are using lower loads, lighter weights which in order to get close to failure you have to do for higher reps to keep the sets effective, you have less acute injury risk. On rack your 5 RM from the squat from the bench in the deadlift etc. weighted pull up the your probability of getting hurt during any one of those sets is way higher than if you un-rack your 15 or your 20 RM period. That does not mean the absolute risk of injury is high any to one of those cases. Good technique, well-controlled, accustomed sets of 5 are very safe. They're safe for them almost every sport you could ever play unit of time for unit of time spent in the gym. But comparing apples to apples, heavier weights have a more likely probability of getting hurt acutely that is in the set how you're playing something and then that's it. You're not training for two weeks, then lighter weights done for higher reps and it's just a matter of force transduction through tendons. It's just really not complicated. It's literally the same mechanism by which asking the question of like, hey, if you get into a car accident at 15 miles an hour, what's the probability you're really hurt versus if you get into car accident at 30 miles an hour or 45 miles an hour, just more acute force means higher probability of something catastrophic happening. And again, this isn't car accidents, this is lifting very low absolute risk. But the relative risk is absolutely higher. Good God, I should have said that. It's a stupid way. It's got the relative risk is absolutely higher. Good job, Mike. The relative risk is definitely higher for heavier weights than for lighter weights, for lower reps than for higher reps. And with lower loads used for higher reps, there's less chronic wear and tear on your connective tissues because your connective tissues heal slower than your muscles do. Your tendons and the appernorosis that connects your tendons to your muscles take on damage as well as your muscles do, but muscles are very well profused with blood flow, tendons not nearly as much. And for a few other reasons, tendons in a connective tissue between the tendons and the muscle takes longer to heal between bouts of training and accumulates more damage over time than muscles. Now, if you were in a blocking phase or maintenance phase, you have plenty of food and plenty of rest, your fatigue isn't sky high. And you're generally able to recover from low reps just fine. But when you are in the end of a fat loss phase, especially your ability to recover from multiple traumatic events, which low key training is kind of a little bit low key trauma, is substantially reduced. And thus, your probability of accumulating more wear and tear doing sets of five to eight is higher than doing sets of 15 to 20. It's one of this Scott, you've done plenty of lifting. Do you know that like perceptive feel of like sets of 15 to 20 really mess up your muscles, but your joints largely feel okay, whereas sets of five to eight also mess up your muscles, but your joints are like, they're in for some shit. Yeah, mine really take a beating from that rep range. 100% I think kind of everyone's do. One of the trends lately that has kind of of profused TikTok is claiming that sets of like three to six or four to eight reps are like the only effective thing for training. And when, you know, people are like, why would you ever do anything more than that? It's like, have you tried doing a high volume program, which is to say the program that grows the most muscle, same thing with sets of Scott, can you imagine if I told you, hey, man, we're going to get you an training study, whole body five days a week, 12 weeks, every single lift is going to be in hard in the four to eight rep range. I would not people looking forward to that. You might not be walking out of that three weeks later, everyone's like Django blocks on the ground. Now, of course, if you're not a strong, if you're a specially resilient, anything between the two, it's not a big concern. But at the margins of the extremes, it absolutely does matter. So the acute injury risk is also modified by fat loss phase in an interesting way, because I just said lower loads have lower acute injury risk. But what the hell does that have to do with bulking and cutting? During bulking, it's more likely you'll get hurt from heavier weights. During cutting, it's more likely you get hurt from heavier weights. So like what gives, why are we separating the two? Because a higher fatigue state is a known thing that has to happen during a fat loss phase because extra calories bring down fatigue. This higher accumulated degree of fatigue has many consequences, some of them very subtle, and one of the most interesting findings in sports science is that athletes who exhibit a high level of fatigue lose a bit of motor fluidity, gross motor fluidity, their athleticism is lower. They have butter fingers, and their movements aren't as fluid and they don't make the micro adjustments to make the movement have as good of technique. If you're going light and high rep, all right, whatever, fine, not ideal technique, a little bit of a jumpy cut-out situation, no big deal. But if you're using heavy weights and you're doing lower reps, and your technique is off even a little bit, it could be a bad, bad deal. So generally the idea is you want to lift your heaviest when your fatigue is the lowest because you'll do the best performance and because your probability of injuries going to be lower. If you have a higher degree of fatigue than the real situation is that if you go heavier, you'll probably be okay. But because you're less athletic, and your technique isn't a smooth, the probability that you'll make enough of a technique faux pas to cause an acute injury goes up, not by a lot, but here's the thing, towards the end of the fat loss phase. That's when shit really matters. That's when you don't want to break your heart and maintenance phase, whatever you take some time off, you get back on, nothing happened. Your fat loss phase, you're going to go in a cruise with your friends, you're going to be swollen, sexy in the gym, you're going to be getting ready for a wedding, you're getting ready to her for a photo shoot, you're getting ready to step on stage. That's a really, really bad time to get hurt. And so if you know that you grow and maintain the same amount of muscle with higher reps as lower reps, but you know that lower reps have, by this mechanism, a slightly higher chance of getting you hurt. Why would you take that chance? There are good reasons to do it that you just love vibing and going for low reps, so they really are better for you on an individual basis for that muscle, even for your whole body. And that's cool. But all things being equal for the average person just take the easier road and you're much less likely to get hurt and that's a really, really good thing. High and low, low training caused the same muscle gain and anti muscle loss stimulus. So you lose nothing by doing slightly higher reps and there is, there are two other reasons, there are a little bit compelling for why you should consider higher reps. One of them is that you get better pumps out of average from higher reps. Now that doesn't really mean that you're going to be growing much because tension makes up for the pumps a no big deal. But that's why it sets a five and sets a 30 caused roughly a cool or high purge of ease. That's a 30 caused more metabolite accretion and more pumps and then they grow you more, but the tension stimulus is less. So that start stuff makes you grow less. Those two cancel out and it's basically roughly the same amount of growth from sets a 30, sets a five. You don't get as big of pumps, not as many metabolites, but the tension is really psychotic, so you end up having roughly the same hypertrophy. No big deal. But when you're in a fat loss phase and you're getting higher reps, you're getting more baller pumps which makes you look cool and then you feel cool and then you are cool and then all of a sudden you have cigarettes and sunglasses and you're the man, no wait. But somewhere at that point and actually Scott did you know that cigarettes smoking literally reduces how big of pumps you get? That makes sense. Yeah. Yeah. Like, boy is that the best argument that you should tell kids that anti smoking education like your pumps are going to be worse and they're like, I'm never smoking again. But you look real cool. So I don't know. That's a sound. And then the kid raises his hand and he's like, well, I still look cool if I don't have a pump and you're like, well, you won't kid. You little bitch and then he's like, there's no way I'm showing up to the club. Well, I might tank top on. Actually Scott, did you know that most clubs don't allow guys to wear tank tops? Yes, and a lot of restaurants as well. Ask me how I do that, Mike. By trying to get into restaurants with me while I would tank top and we're not allowed to go in. Yes. But you know, the club thing is actually asked a bouncer about it once and he's like, it's honestly when you let guys with tank tops and like like wife beaters, into clubs, it like their male, male sizing dynamic leads to way more fights. Is that crazy? Do bounce, bounceers? If you guys are really quick side tension, if you ever have the opportunity, like if you know any bouncer is that are super cool or you meet them and you chat with them a little bit, asking them about stories and about like, hey, what do you think about human nature, especially when people are drunk, Scott, like, and you don't even have to do this on YouTube. There's like bouncer stories, like there's tons of channels and tons of interviews, gold, solid gold. His amounts are sea people that they're best and they see people that they're worst and they see a lot of people. It's fascinating. In any case, don't smoke cigarettes, kids. But when you get better pumps on average towards the end of a fat loss phase, you look cooler and that just gives you this awesome vibe. First of all, it's kind of why you lift us to get awesome pumps in the gym and also when you're lean, the pumps look the best and also it keeps you more motivated to do more sets to do each set harder and to come in for more workouts because at the end of a fat loss phase, if you guys have ever gone there and you're like, stop getting really good pumps, it kind of just takes the wind out of your sales and you're like, I think I'll stop cutting now. This feels like shit. You eat some food, you get some carbs, you get amazing pumps, you're like, howly at bulk season. But if you do some high reps, when you're doing your fat loss phase, then all of a sudden, like you still get pretty decent pumps and you're able to dig more and lose more fat, the whole process gets better. And then one last worry, one last actual reason why higher reps can be a good thing when you're in a fat loss phase. When you have a caloric deficit that is substantial enough to get you leaner and lasts for a substantial amount of time, weeks and months. And in addition to that higher fatigue from just having that caloric deficit and having to stay there for a while, by both caloric deficit mechanism and independent fatigue mechanism, what ends up happening is your muscle fibers convert over that course of the fat loss phase slightly into their slower twitch variants from faster twitch to slower twitch, which means two things. One, your ability to lift for strength, your ability to progress in the lower reps, putting on weight on the bar, declines. That sucks. Progression wise, it can throw you off, but really you just do more volume in your fine, but motivation wise, it can really throw you off. So, yep, another workout here of getting weaker can't wait till next week when I lose even more strength. And someone's like, yeah, but under the hood, you're not losing muscle. And you're like, yeah, it does not exactly get me excited. However, there is an unbelievable golden fleece lining there. The golden lining there, the silver lining golden fleece, I screwed up every single one of those analogies, is the following that when you are converting, inevitably, you don't have a choice in this if you're doing high volume training and you're doing a caloric deficit for an extended period time, you will convert the fibers a little bit from faster twitch to slower twitch every single one of your fibers does. As that's happening for you, your slow twitch fibers are better at endurance. And the more slow twitch they get as you train them, the better they are at doing reps. And because we have actually researched that I was a part of publishing to really good data to show that increasing reps over the course of multiple months, so long as you don't get way over 30 reps, causes the same overload stimulus and growth as increasing weight on the bar. You have a big unlock. If during a fat loss phase, you go from doing sets of 10 with the same weight to doing sets of 15, it gives you both progression and higher reps. And you're able to add reps during a fat loss phase for two reasons. One, your fibers are slower twitch and they're literally have more endurance. And more endurance every week. And in addition to that, as you shrink down your fat stores, you get more endurance because the systemic drag of your fat ass on the rest of your body declines. You guys have noticed how in a peak bulk, thick boy phase, you do a set of 10 on the leg press and you're throwing up in your out of breath, whereas at the end of a cut when you're nice and lean, you do a set of 15 on the leg press and you're like, oh, I can just do another set in 30 seconds. No problem. Those two factors combine to make progression on weight, adding weight week after week after week in your fat loss phase, really hard in demotivating. But progression on reps might actually be so good that it counter balances that high fatigue state. It might even counter balance the muscle loss so that it's least psychologically, you're continuing to hit PRs or at least not losing strength. Because of that, rep progressions and because you're better at higher reps, choosing to do higher reps or even increase your reps as the cutting phase progresses is a very swell idea to consider. Now the last thing I'll say here is this. I want you guys to take this advice, like every single piece of advice we ever give on this channel or any other place. I talk about stuff. I don't know if you guys know this. Have a whole other channel on YouTube. It's just called Mike Isrertel. And sometimes call it Mike Isrertel making progress. And it's just like, oh, Scott, we were like 170 K followers or subscribers. And I just talk about like life advice and philosophy and AI and science and all the other BS that I don't know anything about, but I can't stop yapping. So there I am on the channel. It's good to ask them, are you all fall asleep to or trust me? You will fall asleep to it really well. Everything I ever say, I want you guys to take in a nuanced way. Very few, if not any absolute. I would have been an absolute if I said that. So what do I mean in this context? If you like going heavier by all means go heavier, if you stay safe with good technique and you progress gently by putting two and a half pounds on the bar of the reek instead of five like usual during bulking, you lose nothing and you're going to be great. But consider just consider going a bit lighter, maybe not such a 10, but set's a 15, just something like that. And higher reps on cuts aka fat loss phases, more so than on bulks. You might benefit and you will lose nothing. Because after the cut is over, you can get right into a bulk after a little bit of active rest and start getting the weights going and increasing and starting to drop the reps and all that really good stuff. And the way you can make all that super fluid and super easy is by using the RP high purtrophy app. It's a link in description for that. It's awesome. I use it every single day that I'm training and sometimes I'll just look at how pretty it is on my day off. Guys, I've been Dr. Mike. Thank you for tuning in and I will see you next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Adassance Periodization. Welcome back to the Targeting the Muscle Series. Today's exercise to help us target the side delts more is the dumbbell lateral raise. We've got tips here we go. Tip number one momentum. Momentum is an okay thing. But if you are having trouble feeling the target muscle, eliminating momentum or minimizing is probably a wise idea. So a lot of lateral raising and there's not a damn thing wrong with this. Looks like this. A little bit of wiggle, a little bit of momentum and that's totally fine. But if you really have a trouble feeling the side delts, don't have trouble feeling the side delts. Hey, rock away, no worries. If you have a trouble feeling them, try to make sure that you control the momentum on both concentric and e-centric portions. Thus, you start sometimes not even from the front like this. Start here at the sides. You can't swing into it from here. This you can do that. Start here and only with your side delts raise. And then on the way down, there's a temptation to let momentum take over. Don't do that. Raise with your side delts. Slow on the way down. Raise only with your side delts. Intentionally slow, not fast. Trust me the shiddler catch up to you. It'll burn eventually. Slow around the way up. Only side delts. Control these centric on the way down. If you do that, nine times out of ten, you will feel your side delts if you're having trouble with it. Next tip. The degree of elbow bend. This is a tip that's one of those. You can try a few things and see which one works for you. But if you don't know to try them, you might be stuck in a pattern that's not super great. One way to do the elbow position is to completely lock it out. It's pretty easy to do standardize. Lock up with your elbows and do the lateral raise with elbows completely locked. For some people, they make all the difference. They feel the side delts of tongue. For some folks, it hurts the elbow. It feels kind of weird and it's no bueno. So for some folks, they want to keep their elbow just slightly out of lock. Locked, slightly out of lock. Like this, and sometimes it can feel a lot better. So play with both and see which one is best for you. Next, ranges of motion. So there's not like one right way to do the lateral raise. There are plenty of good options. For folks with sensitive shoulders, if they give you a little bit of trouble, what you can do is allow our raise to almost parallel. If you control no big deal, you get a great shoulder stimulus. Some other folks might try to go all the way to parallel and back down and that's totally fine. If your shoulders can take it, that's probably a little bit better. There is another where you go to a bath parallel and then you can get a really, really baller shoulder pump and everything works out super great. If your shoulder joints can take it, that's also good. And then, of course, there's the super-round variant, and what you go all the way up and then control these centers. And all the way up and control these centers, that's not like better, but it can provide an awesome shoulder stimulus if your shoulder joints can take it. Just know that there are options. Here's the thing. You have sort of two paths to go. One is you find the best one of these that works for you and stick to that. Two is you find that multiple of these work really well, but they're just sort of different styles like rice versus whole grain bad versus pasta. And then, you know, for a couple of months you do one style, for a couple of months you do the other, now you have more variations. It's like having more entries. Another thing you can try to get the side delts to feel this a bit more is an interesting modification. It turns out like the amount of force relative to your muscles ability to produce it is really, really low over here. And leverage wise, it's much harder over here. So if you're losing a bit of tension down here and you feel like this is kind of junk volume, which you can do, is limit the motion to a 45 degree range at the bottom. So let's say I'm doing super-round later, I'm coming all the way up here. I can come down to roughly 45 and then go back up. I'm still in a really productive range, and there's no time during this movement when my delts are not active. It doesn't mean it's a better way to do it, but if you're struggling with a mind loss of connection you totally can. And even if you just go to just a low parallel you can go from here to here and just like that and there's not a damn thing wrong with that. But Dr. Mike, what about stretch under tension? Now the thing is with lateral raises is not really possible because when you have the stretch you don't have tension. Gravity doesn't fucking point sideways. So if you want stretch under tension you gotta use cables or something like that. But if you're really having trouble stopping at about 45 degrees and going as high as here or even higher, totally great variation. Next tip is to play around with hand and finger position. So many people can feel the side delts more if they do with them pinkies up. So pinkies up, pinkies towards this guy, like this, not like all the way up, but just a little higher than your thumbs. However for some folks that's not really good for their shoulders. So for them they want to experiment with putting your thumbs up more and then they do like this a bit more front delt activity this way, but nonetheless you can't hit the side delts well. And of course there's conventional straight. So there's three different ways. Pinkies up, straight and thumbs up. Try all three see which one works best for you. If your shoulders are golden you can use these as three different variations potentially. If your shoulders are not golden one of those you eliminate whichever ones they're not golden in and do the one that works best. Alright last tip. Sometimes if you're really struggling with a mind muscle connection, pauses can help. But these are pauses at the top, not at the bottom. Just a variation for you to try. So instead of doing this, which is 100% fine, that's what I do most the time. You can pause. I would pause at mechanically the hardest position or close to it. So pause, hold for one second, down slow. Pause, hold for a sec, down slow. When you're pausing you really need to activate your side delts to keep that movement in the air, that can enhance your mind muscle connection. You can feel the target muscle more. We'll fucking video series this title that shit and you can finally have huge side delts try to walk into a door, the door frame breaks and you're the whole. Congratulations. Folks like subscribe, comment, YouTube things. If you have an exercise, you want us to talk about breakdown to tell you how to talk in the muscle better. Let us know in the comments. See you guys next time.

I say it's the reset what you're saying because I agree I have more to ask I don't talk to the camera man What are you doing? We hear make videos to make videos we are making videos Jared fuck I said enough I'm gonna let my actions speak loud fuck Hey folks Hey folks, hey folks, hey YouTube, hey TikTok It's up only fans Yeah I guess only fans be a part of it Yeah So listen we're doing legs and we're kind of doing our own thing because we all have very independent personalities So I'm continuing my math cycle I'll be doing angelic squats and then Smith machine good mornings Jared will be doing Smith machine squats and leg presses and leg curls and then Charlie is gonna be doing Smith machine squats and leg curls and we'll be trying to give you some technique to bits along the way a little insight in how real training works and legs I'll pretty quiet because legs is on the mind instead of words Yes, we're doing this first because it warms my knees up I feel a lot better for squats and quad work after this and when you get about two sets in three sets into this movement You kind of just feel a lot better like as far psychological or rousal goes You notice you start Smith squats or squatting or any quad pattern first You might have some weird knee stuff Even after a nice warm up it still kind of feels weird but two sets into this and I'm basically ready to go for the rest of the session What Jared said and I think he might have said this but a cool thing about doing something and not so difficult exercise this last systemic with fatigue first So especially for something like legs, mutual quars, ton of systemic arousal Me a little weird to like just hit the heavy shit first There's like half a wave because you're like that really might really into this But if you get an easier exercise first by the time you're done with that you're like juices are flowing you're good to go and then you can hit that hard shoe especially worse pretty well How do I feel Jared? painful Good very fucking painful So this leg practice leg curl is very good but he contraction being lighter than that bottom Yes, but if you put the sum of these things on it it's even better It feels like shit You don't like that? This thing's already slanted That's literally what you're doing I don't understand what you need by slanted pad is slanted The more it's the less it is Mike you're still slanted you're so off of this Right The only thing we want to do is put our legs If they're here they enter here If they're up here Those up here That doesn't matter It's the pad starts here when you go And then when you go all the way down you can get a deeper stretch in your hamster I literally get a full stretch I'm just better keeping my hips forward than you're going to shot the fuck off What does that even mean? I'm on the ground right now Keep down yourself Keep your foot on the machine But hey Charlie put that thing on there to get a really good stretch Yeah It's it's full of the exact same way I just put it right there for you Oh it's so healthy Right there That might be too high though Oh wait Oh Oh Sheo it's up on your calves now Yeah it feels like shit like that It's better It's just better I'm here and I'm stretching my leg fully So my knees are never even on this Watch another one next time So our hips are more like this Yes What that mean we pre-structure our hamstring? Oh that literally At the bottom I have your hips Oh that means you're not pre-structuring I can watch restructuring I watch it It feels way better than I've been saying Well it can feel better right here that and that's all per person And then this is like Up in the middle my fucking calf That's all nothing here Are you gonna simply move up? You can move up You can't I'm already Oh the top of this Like so like You can put your feet My heels At the bottom Or you can put them here My heels at the bottom It's literally right here I'm gonna do this Why don't you just move that It goes here What's good? It's gonna be here in the near Well that that's good that it moves around Because that means at the top of the ball From a smaller And that means you can hold it up Well if you run your calf Like it's awkward as fuck But it's at the bottom This is moving over my calf What's just as rolling Did you find it? Yeah Literally It's You know like it? It's awkward as fuck Sure Yeah but on principle this is a good idea That's fine Yeah That's all I'm saying It's a good stretch of the bottom if you can't get a full stretch That's exclusively why we do it That's why we do it That's why we do it That's why we do it That's why you guess the stretch Yeah His hips are actually over the line That's what I thought I do hear me Yeah, I do talk enough for that Oh You're right That's right Yeah, I do that and I actually Actively flexed my quads To make your room Sure, sure, sure Offer It's a stretch Make it this Yep Yeah, stretch Put some fall chroma Yeah We figured it out Jared Yeah, I'm a little bit too tall Yeah, that's why he's a thour I just it there's no forward for me my legs are short as crystals I'm as forward as it gets when I hips are right here Oh Yeah good stuff, sorry let's go Rich deep There you go Thanks a bottle every time Yeah Yeah Good shit, sorry Crazy becatrations A lot of people have suffered greatly on this machine Oh, it's good Trevor Fullbright was here Oh, I was not in my room He wasn't able to get out of a machine after each set He was just kind of slinking it for a while and then he would fall out Which is like clean memories you and he's here Yeah, that's so That was cool filming yeah Him and Izzy just went completely nuts Let's see what we like Oh, yeah, these look great Yeah So just in the first working set Here the exercise We're doing I'm doing There's a pendulum squat I think Here is this a pendulum squat or a lever squat What's arsenal call? I thought pendulum I think it is pendulum In any case the same fucking machine It's nice A pendulum squat has a few upsides and a few downsides The downside is that it applies the least force at the bottom That's the opposite of what you want in hypertrophy The upside is that It seems to load the eccentric Especially starting from the top to the bottom quarter like crazy It really helps me slow my eccentric down at all the other exercises Because all of my other leg movements Get the bottom the hardest This is a little bit of interesting variation I've been using it for a few months and it works quite well ideally I wouldn't want to leverage so much to the top and Matt the bottom but it works pretty well It gives me a great cornering motion but so Not bait Not bait arsenal Oh Oh no And I've been to church I know how to say no to Satan Is he joking? One Subscribe! No, it's off but good. Just like my mother's left. You're a good mother who gave you tough love. I got my ass kicked. I post these on Instagram once and this guy's like, cause you know my cock's hanging through. This guy's like, you can see your cock. I just didn't know what to respond to that. No. Like, you look for Dix actively in lifting videos. I can see your dick through your clothes, man. Do you want my number? Two more. Oh. I don't look right. Charlie looks. His legs look like he's five foot two. That's proper proportions for a really jack guy at five, two for his legs. And then you're like, oh, you're five, eleven. Charlie looks. His legs look. Like he's five foot two. That's proper proportions for a really jack guy at five, two for his legs. Oh, you're five, eleven. Huh. I did that with no pressure. My belt can't be came with. No way. I saw that. That's like, that was like, do I restart? I thought, okay. What? Thought, okay. Thanks, Charlie. It's one side. Good idea. It's between audio. At least in my vomiting. Yeah. Let's go, Jared. Come on. Oh, nice. Yeah. It's fun. Easy as to rack ever. Just go. I'll let it. Well, so just to clear something up folks, I hate Mike, as it's all. People. I think that's pretty clear. People always tell us, like, hey, guys, Crocs, you love, we love Crocs, like, to wear them. And the reality is, we only like to wear Crocs for one's just of a season two. One their cheap. Number one. And two, they just really easy to put on and take off and they're comfortable. It says three reasons. Reason four is they're quite durable. So you can just wear them for a while. And reason five is they're pretty ubiquitous. You can wear them indoors outdoors for many different activities. You fancy places now, because if you love that. That's what I love it so Crocs are welcome everywhere. But here's why we don't like Crocs. They're aesthetic appeal, or because we, they're just like industry, ho, crock lovers. Or because they're a really good lifting shoe. And we found that. Yeah. Look at that, that's all the time. Yeah, the body lifting Crocs, and I'm like, I don't. And then like, I swear to God, it's sorry, lifting in Crocs. Like, you didn't. And they're like, well, that one time you're doing bench press. I'm like, why don't you bench press my feet? You stupid asshole. But also, let me clear something up. Body folks, fine folks, great ideas. We love you all. You guys send us messages and tag us in posts that have like, crock underwear and crock bikini top. Move this chair. I'm car that looks like a crock shoe. It's not registering on the Richter scale. It also, it's not the ball that bullshit. Stop tagging me. You're fucking crock bullshit. They work hard. Not me. Ah, he's gone. Good. This is going to be good footage. Fuck. But seriously, guys, Charlie actually knows fashion, Jared and I just put trying to put clothes in our body. Yeah, look at my fucking outfit. Because the government says that we can't walk around naked. Yeah. That's it. So two things. One. One of you good mornings. Playing with the rackeye. I'm actually going to be deeper than usual. For positions slightly move behind. Get a little bit more range of motion in the hands. Maybe. So I've liked the way I've been doing like 275. I'm going to go to 225C. I've seen other works. A little rom for a load trade off. I'll see. I'll play some of my favor. And you guys read comic books. Remember Edam and team. You guys have ever seen duct tape made out of Adam and him. Huh? Now watch this. You know, Adam and him is the hardest substance on earth. How can he do that? Who was simple human chemistry? Let's go. Give this a tip. Tie up. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Oh you're even better. Yes. Oh. Come on. Oh yeah. Oh. Come on. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. This got better as you. Oh yeah. That was good. Kept the hips higher. No, that's the last eight people. Oh yeah. Thanks for those cues Charlie. That really helps. Well, just two sets of eight here. I'll fucking in the ass. What position is auto adjusted in a free good morning? You're trying to have a good time. You're trying to position as auto adjusted in a free good morning? You're trying to have a gravity can't really change. Uh, with this, the sure as hell can't. You're stacked up against the machine. So I would say your feet a little bit behind where you would think. Usually gives your hamstrings more rom and it doesn't tighten you at the bottom. Two sets of eight for me. That's my whole life work, Adam. Good. I'm gonna keep him hips high, stretch them hamstrings. Yes. Yes. Good time. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Come on. Up. Good. That's it. That's all. You wrote. What do you got on the leg? Two sets. This is a heavier day. 10 to 15 reps. The other day is my lighter day. Do my reps. So I'll do three sets. Friday. I'm going Friday. Yeah. I'll do three sets on Friday. My rep mats the first set. It'll be a lighter. I like press but today. Can we have you? So I have my soft music in so I don't kill myself. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Toma. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Fuck my head, Florence. Good job, dude. That was really good. Good job. My best student and my son. Thanks, Florence. I had you. I had you. Did an anacons skyrocket in the head? Or daddy. You just like you. That's the way. Yeah. It's good. Charlie, how was your leg workout? Oh. It was fantastic. The is the stimulus for week one. Got a really good pump. Don't feel too beat up. Don't feel like you had over here. I feel good. I was watching a adult video. One's called plastic fantastic. Toma. It was late sexual. I don't know. Maybe. Definitely. Jared, how was your leg workout? Fuck. Good. But hard. You're sweaty. Can we let it off? Okay. Folks, my leg workout was good. Not amazing. Pretty good. Actually, really good. Not fantastic. I've ever part of the leg workout was being right about everything. There's not your favorite part about everything. All right. Yes. Yes. Anyway. I'm so sure. So happy. All right. And I'm and I'm. We'll catch you guys next time. Oh, wait. Like, subscribe, comment. Ah, fucks white. YouTube. You fuck. Fuck to. See you guys. Memberships. If you want to be a member, you get cool shit. A new video every week that every man else doesn't get. So, holler. It's actually the joint buttons. All right. Down there. Going. Boom. Boom. Haha.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Anasanspiridization and MSG is bad for you. Oh no no wait wait wait that's BS. It's actually not bad for you. Isn't that crazy? That's it video overseeing there's next time. Oh you're still around. Let's do the video. So first, Google MSG Zen Fi Res School is on Fires School, which is almost certainly a Romanian person because that sure shit the most Romanian name I've ever seen. Actually right over here you will have the PMID. So you can just type that into, well, PubMed or Google and you will get the actual study. And the study if I don't happen to have it on hand while I would. I'm is a review of the alleged health hazards of monosodium glutamate. And let me just read the last line of the abstract. It's the only part I read I'm kidding. Critical analyses of existing literature establishes that many of the reported negative health effects of MSG have little relevance for chronic human exposure and are poorly informative as they are based on excessive dosing that does not meet with levels normally consumed in food products. That's a scientist way of saying the evidence that MSG is bad for you is very unconvincing. Now, MSG may have some as yet unidentified or poorly understood health effects on confirmed health effects. But those health effects would probably very small as large literature views have not picked them up yet. So we can say with a pretty decent degree of confidence that MSG is probably not going to kill you dead in the middle of your sleep. You're with the lady of the night you're like, oh, yeah. She's like, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. MSG, you, you die right on top of our. right on top of her. She's like, for me? Where? Aaaaaaah! Aaaaaah! And then she's like, he smells like a musg, this is terrible, but delicious. And guess what she has to do? This is so bad, I shouldn't say it, should I? Scott, she has to eat through your body to get out. But since you are soaked in MSG, when the medical people get to her at the end of the night to rescue her, they're like, how traumatic was it to eat through his body to get out? And she's like, honestly, it was delicious, tastes like Chinese food. It's MSG is amazing. In any case, before we get myself even more canceled, there are lots of claims by lots of people that are active claims that MSG is definitely harmful. And these claims have just not stood up to the evidence, plain and simple, major government organizations, have that MSG is being safe after doing very thorough reviews. I know they're all bought and paid for by big food or whatever crazy stuff you'll come up with. Studies finding that it's unsafe have nasty design flaws usually and really like, amateurish attempts at research by clearly ideological people out to get MSG. And the big thing is this, I think a lot of people think that MSG is bad for you because they'll say look what I eat MSG, like a really bloated, and I feel like crap. And it's just like, gain a bunch of weight that I hate. And you go, I got you. You bought MSG to flavor your healthy food with. And they're like, no, it doesn't matter. So how did you eat MSG? Oh, I hate it. Did you? What was that? I'm sorry, come again. I ate 15 agrows. Oh, oh, and it would bloated you. That's so strange. You have a bad deftatami feel bad after 15 fucking agrows. They're like, well, that's so good. Listen, I'm not here to debate that. They're amazing. But maybe it was the 15 agrows and not the MSG content of them that made you feel sick and unhealthy. Good God. MSG in moderation. For now, tentatively seems like a totally fine choice. Further, good research can clarify if it has some degree of marginal negative, what that degree is and how to proceed. But for now, don't fall for scare tactics based on crap data spread by people that are just real scared and want a one shot solution of everything. It's going to be natural. It's going to be great. We got to go back to how we used to be in the 1820s when people died of dysentery and cholera. Whatever it means by that. Anyway, Arnold, Arnold, get us out of here. OK, bullshit. See you next time. My old-hand download the hypertrophy app. Yeah, it's good. You're going to get the bicep pump. You make everything bicep. It's a program generator. You can do whatever you want. And then in the mic, he's still short. And this beeping is very small, but he's going to have more money. And he's going to be able to drive a Lamborghini around. Yeah. And it's going to be good. So bye now. Now, please, how many?

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for our science puritization, and today's topic is the endless infinity war between machines and freeweights which ones grow muscle best, and I'm here to put a complete stop, and to this war, I'm that hippie girl running out in front of the tent going stop fighting everybody! Maybe I'm cooler than that analogy. In any case, machines versus freeweights for getting jacked is a false controversy. Doesn't actually exist? Whoa, inception. Let's talk about why that is. The framing of the question of our machines or freeweights better for games is already wrong. It is similar to asking in a normal average job should we hire men or women for this position? What? Shouldn't we be hiring whoever is most qualified for the job? Oh yeah, that's right. Econ 101. So in the same sense, if you have to ask machines or freeweights for muscle growth, you're asking the wrong question altogether. The real question is, which exercises can I choose and I don't care what time of exercises they are that will best grow my muscles? Now that's the real question. So we'll spend the rest of this talk answering that question because that's an important question to ask. Here's the thing. The way we get down to selecting the exercises that are best for getting jacked for a specific muscle group is with a series of filters. We start out with every exercise literally just straight up known to man to exist inside of a gymnasium and we apply one by one the seven seven training principles. And if you want to know what they are, here they are, but if you really want to dig into them or book the scientific principles of hypertrophy training as all of them and they're described and beat to death over 200 whatever odd pages. Each training principle is applied to this set of exercises. And every time we apply the training principle, it knocks a bunch of the exercises off as nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, nope, and only a smaller fraction remain. Then we apply the next training principle and it knocks out a bunch that don't meet the muster and the circle of exercises gets smaller and smaller and smaller until we have just a few exercises which are our best and then we can use those. So here are the training principles. Let's go through an example to see how this would work. And if you really want to be able to do this yourself super quick, like I'll do it here, scientific principles of hypertrophy training. The link to buy stuff is in the description, across money, but on the other hand my butlers need to be paid every month the insist on the money. But you guys get to work for me, I say, this is if I said nothing at all. They still hold out. I pay them in tips only because of high pay butlers. I sell a lot of tax receipts for tips. In any case, I digress. Here we go. First training principle, the most important and the most inclusive is specificity. So if you are trying to get an exercise that builds your chest, bulky, picks, yum. All non-chest exercises are gone because you have squats, leg presses, curls, bench press, incline dips, base state, everything else goes away. Well, that makes it pretty easy. So now we're just now in to exercise. This is actually the chest. Awesome. Next we apply the filter of the overload principle. Everything that doesn't quite give us a very good overload is gone. So that one like you hang off a bench and you just do like the cable thing with one arm and barely feel anything. Nothing's happening. That's gone. Not overloading enough. You need exercises that have a high raw stimulus magnitude. I said raw weird. I said it like a New Yorker. Raw. Hey Scott the video guy. You have a new raw before with someone. You just tell him what you feel. Yeah. Oh god. I shouldn't have asked that shit. He's probably raw right now. Sick. In any case, Ross didn't be the most magnitude. It's basically some way to figure out how much this exercise really stimulate muscle growth. If he gives you an amazing pump without doing a trillion sets, if you can feel the tension ripping your pecs apart, if higher reps give you a psychotic burn right in the chest. If you're sore for days after, just do in a few sets, that's a good side. Because there's some exercises you're doing. I don't know what that. I guess I know this technically trains my chest, but it sucks. So you take about top 10 of chest exercises. You see, these are the top 10 that really fuck me up. Great. Our list is just now down to about 10 exercises. Then we rank them again on fatigue management, which is to say we pick the exercises that have the best stimulus to fatigue ratio. So all the exercises that work best yet, fuck 10, let's say 20 or 30 of the best exercises. Because there are of Jesus Christ. There's an infinite number of chest exercises. Which of those give you the least systemic fatigue? Like be you up a shit load to where like, I don't want to do this any arched benching. Super heavy power lift your style can really beat that ass a little too much so that you're like, still so on your lower back for squat the next day. Maybe that's not the best exercise. Stimulus 15 ratio style. Exercises that are just don't suck the soul out of you as much. And specifically exercises that are friendly towards your joints are friendly or towards your joints. So if you have some kind of incline barbell bench thing you do, you just tears your shoulders a thunder like fuck that. But if you have a dumbbell press that you're like, oh, this actually feels great. It ranks above. So now exercises that are on the state bottom third of SFR, they're just not going to run your use. So yeah, they're super stimulative, but they beat us up too much. So no thanks. So now we got maybe 15 exercises so that are still in the running. Now we start with like thousands. We're down to 15 not bad and just a couple training principles, but wait, there's more. Next is SRA stimulus recovery adaptation. All one principle. It's the idea that you train, rest recover and repeat. That's all the principal size. You got a train and then wait, tells shit happens that you actually started in training, like muscle actually grows mobile law. And then when you recover, you hit it again. So there's a selection there in the context of your program. Let's say you have a Monday, Wednesday, Friday, chest routine. Friday, you can pick some movements that take a while to heal because you have two days of rest. But on Monday and Wednesday, you might want to be like, oh man, I want to fucking the super deep fly dumbbell fly. There are really rips my pecks open. But shit, if I do that on Mondays with any kind of volume that's decent, have a heal by Wednesday and I won't heal by Friday. So I'm going to save the flies for Friday, but right now I'm picking Monday exercises, flies are out, camera barbenches out, and everything stays in those just really, really fuck me up so that jump is not going to heal or like this exercise is great for my pecks. But I got triceps the next day and it hits my trice too much or hits my shoulder during too much and I'd love to recover for tomorrow. So no thanks. So some of this is a sequencing issue. So you have like 12 exercises. Now you're maybe down to like 10 or something like that. Next up is variation. Variation cuts out two exercises for us or two groups of exercise. One exercises we just did recently that we're super stale with. Because somebody else could look at this list for you and they make it in your very good. Okay, in climb double press. Yes, and you're like, I know I just did it for like three months and I'm just like fucking tired of the shit. Okay, that goes. And then exercises you're thinking of saving for a very a mesocycle like the next meso where the next two mesos ahead. You let's see your planning out of fat loss phase and the last mesocycle in that fat loss phase, you really want to do deficit pushups because they really pump up your pecks like crazy. They take very little setup. You're super tired from your diet and you just a huge stimulus and you just love it. You're just like, damn it. At the way I look, I love taking pictures down on my fat loss phase. That's as it put your hips have to be in. So that if it's phase one of three fat loss phases or sorry, the first month of fat loss phase, then you're going to be like, ooh, deficit pushups. Ah, I don't want to get stale on them by then. I'm going to save them for the last month. So that one goes as well. That comes to your list even a little bit more. Exercise is that already stale or exercise you want to save for a little bit later. Next is phase potentialiation. This is a very advanced. You can just skip this one if you're like, what the fuck? But very, very neat and gritty. As you go through the training phases, let's say you just did an active rest phase. Your muscles are super super ready to be trained and they're super sensitive to growth and they're sensitive to damage. It's totally fine to pick an exercise that doesn't have a lot of eccentric loading, like a kind of a rusty machine and it doesn't have a huge amount of tension at the stretch. It's one of those like at the bottom, you don't feel a ton, but at the top it gets a little harder. That exercise is totally fine for you to pick right after your active rest phase because you're super sensitive to growth anyway. It'll for sure hit your chest good enough. But that same exercise mesocycle three of your training phase, two mesocycles in, you might have to do like eight sets to feel anything. And by then your elbows are off of your body. Whereas exercises that are super eccentricly demanding and ones which have exposure to a really big deep stretch, they're the ones that are super effective in mesocy one. But so effective, you might have to do like a set of that exercise to start with. That's kind of stupid. I'm doing a set of camberbar bench in mesocy one. I'm doing eight sets of machine press in mesocy three to give the same effect. The fact like why don't I just flip them shit's over? Do three or four sets of that not so great machine, but good enough because I'm not super trained yet to mean that sort of thing. Like I'm just good enough for me now. I'm really detrained after the active rest phase. It's good enough now. And then later when you're you know tail end of whatever phase you're doing with a couple mesocycles in you're like, alright, now I'm more resistant type of hypertrophy. Now I need the big guns. Then you do the camberbar bench press which is super eccentric control, alter deep stretch. It fox you out, but you're already pretty well trained. So it's not overboard. You don't just do one set and go home because otherwise you get two sore. Three or four sets. There's a symmetry there. It's really awesome. These exercises obviously you have to move them around to get them to the right place-based tension wise, which means in any given phase some of them are like, how I'm going to save you for later and this one not quite ready and this one perfect. Right? So we're cartels again. Here we go. Let me tell you guys about the RP high-perchrophy app. With over 28 preset programs already in the app you can choose to make your own. You can modify an existing program or you can just run the programs exactly as they were written by e-personal. This app programs everything for you. Exercise is weights sets, reps, frequency, the whole thing. After every single workout and every single week the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input we have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now you're pretty interested in the app download the RP high-perchrophy app today. After the six training principles you're supplied you may be down to like three to five exercises remaining all of them at roughly equal on stimulus to fatigue ratio so they're all fucking great. All of them are up to the task. All you have to do is just pick your favorite whichever one you want or flip a coin that has three signs and go and that's all you ever need to do about picking exercises. What about machines versus free weights? I'll give this shit. Comments? Questions below? Like, subscribe, consider our members area. It's got really fun videos in it. It's just more like your science stuff. But we're not only fans quite yet but maybe and last question for you should I start our only fan and then if I should what should I put in there? It's feed isn't it? Sick bucks. I'll see you next time.

Go! Go, Mother! Up! Up! You will continue to stand up. Check, stop! Slow, this leg leads. Go! You Tube! I'm Dr. Mike. This is Will. This is Zach. Will hit us up and he was like, hey, I've seen a bunch of your workouts. He didn't say I'm a big fan of anything. You just said, you guys don't know how to train hard. And I will physically destroy all of your workouts, about batting. And then he said a lot of expert things, and I'm going to do it in sensitive stuff. After I read the email and cried for a while, I decided why not invite Will over, have an RP style high rep quad workout, to see if it's really true that we can't train people hard. But you brought a secret weapon, 18 year old, barely legal, YouTube don't demonetize me. Zach over here is a real strong competitive power lifter. Can he compete with a high rep quad workout? We'll see, place your bets on the comments below. We're going to do hackswats. Then we're going to do a question about question about question mark. If the guys are still alive, maybe some pendulum squats, let's get it. Done, gentlemen, any comments on how you think this will go. Today we kill a Russian don't believe. Russian, not the event that I'll come through anymore. Zach, what do you think? I'm ready. Ready to go? Can you or a Polish ancestry? Yes. Mars, Christianowski, better show up. Back in the year 1989, when the Berlin Wall fell, they asked one East German individual, what is your most, what is the thing you want from the West that you're most excited to get? And he said, soft-survice cream. Soft-survice cream. The next thing he said was, I want to be able to do deep high repetition hackswats. Isn't freedom fucking awesome. We're going to start with hackswats. We're going to do three to five sets here, 10 to 20 reps, two paws, my reps style. You guys already know what that is. These folks are used to more west side style training. Let's see how that all adds up. Deeper still. I think I will not marry. Deeper still. Is this a sin? Yes, that was better, but pause at the bottom. I'm going to full convincing pause. Good, deeper pause lower. Good, yes. Control on the way down all the way until you hit the bottom. That's it. Now we know for both of you guys, until you hit the bottom, don't come up. I want one second at the bottom. We'll have to ask the bottom out every time. We're going to bottom out on big mic. What got you into strength? Weakness. Like that? We'll get this off-clancer. I was wrestling in high school and I decided to do one of you weak anymore. It's just a training in the weight room, and then I fell in love with the weight room. And then I ended up coming back to grappling nine years ago, so now I do two gypsum. Good control again. Slow. Up. Right. Rest is brief. Last mini set coming off I won three. Got to touch gently at the bottom, no slamming. Begin. Slow. Yes. Gentle. Up. Up. Up. Ruff. One. Slow. You trick. Go. Gentle. Up. Yeah. One more. We'll get your chips together. Finish it. Slow. Nobody said rest, motherfucker. Slow. Slow. Right here with you. Up. Big push. Ruff. Rack. Time to change your shirt. Beautiful. Beautiful stuff. Excellent set. That was sweet. That was awesome. Tuck me was awesome. Thank God you're muscular. Because otherwise. Oh. Might be a toothpick today. Yeah. Up. Go. Go. Again. Go. Slow. Keep started. Pause. Up. Drive. Rask brief. Two more in your double. Up. Going to order. Begin now. Slow. Gentle. Up. Drive. Good. One more. Right away. Slow. Slow. Rack. Great. Go. That was great. Oh. Damn. You guys got a call like I'm talking to your size of my pants. Yeah. I got a pump. Very good. One more here. And then we'll do the drop side. Got it. So you're looking at them over there talking with. Time with this minister. Prop again. About how to torture us some more. Two lines. Two. Two. You said two five. Go again. I want it. Yup. Up. Up. Woo. One more. Slow. Hit it. Slow. Slow. Full pause. Up. Go. Go. Go. Rack. Oh. I hate you and such a loving way. Thanks dad. I don't know. That was real. Let's go. Slow. Up. One last bite. Get out of there. Go rush. Slow. Slow. Slow. Pause. Rack. Go. Go. Rack. Do you hear Dr. Mike? This is too much weight for me. We'll lighten it up. Good. Stop sack. That was fucking baller as hell. So I'm done with the free workout for today. Right. Alright. So. Mr.'s ackey want to help me do a drop set for your old man here. Oh shit. We're going to start him off with this weight. Oh, we are. When I say we're going to take the 25 off. When I say we're going to take the 45 off. He's going to be down to justice. Cool. Okay. How many one out of this? I think you're going to do five here. I'm going to take your high on drugs. Personally, but not wrong. Five. Whistly. And then. And then. You stick around. And we're going to drop set you up. Three. Slow. Up. Good. Three. One. Slow. Slow. Gentle. Up. Up. Good. Rest. Got moved. Rest. Rest. Go. And no breaks between reps either. Up. One. Go. Slow. Up. Two. One more. Right now. Go down. Slow. Slow. Control. Up. Up. Don't rack. Rest. Re-lock. 10 reps. As many breaks as you need. But I'll rush you. Begin. Slow. Up. Four. Again. Down. Slow. Up. Five. Again. Down. Slow. What are you resting for? Where am I? Slow. Slow. Up. Six. Again. You're still moving on the fucking down. Down. Down. Go. Slow. Up. Seven. Rest. Breathe a little. Right now. Go. Slow. Pause. Up. Eight. More. Go. Slow. Right now. Go. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Go. One more. Right now. Go. No. You didn't come in too quick. You drove all the way over here. Slow. Up. Up. Up. Back. Up. Back. Up. Why don't you. I can't over there on the floor. Well, that was awesome. Learning to walk RP style. God. 365. Woo. R.P. Where a concert easy will remember. Right dad. I'm walking and I'll be there. He has to stand up first. Let's give him a minute here. Okay. Why don't you stay in the way over here. Alright, Mr. Zach. Let's just get five. Grab here. We'll after five. We're going to strip the 25. Okay. Slow control. Ah. Good. And one last one. Go. Slow. Up. Go. Go. REST. 25. Yep. Oh, that's beautiful. Wow. Up. Two. One. One. Two. Slow. Let's go, Zach. Slow. All the way, boy. Big cause. Get the bottom of this and drive. REST. One off, will. Up. Three. Again. Go. Slow. On the ground. And show. Drive. Four. Again. Up. Wait off. REST. What'd you say? At four away. Fifteen. Up with heavier weight. Fifteen. Begin. Time to find out. Time to find out what's up. Up. Drive. Twelve. Three more. Slow. Up. Thirteen down. Slow. Up. That's still 13. That was too fast. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Wait. Sheldon. Go. Rack. Take a second. Three. Well done. Zach. All's awesome. Pretty sick. Little teenager. I don't think all. Got that. Got a leg pump. Nobody's fucking business. Oh, we're just starting to have fun. All right. Folks, the hack squatting has gone off to an excellent start. And now we do an excellent finish with the pendulum squat or whatever the fuck this is called pendulum. Whatever. We call it the heaven right maker. That's someone from down river says that you can treat it skeptically because those people are all in down river folk. They're different. If you're using this machine guys, what you want to do is make sure in most cases you put your feet nice and low on the platform. High in the platform, you'll be able to lift more weight, but it'll be less specific to the quads. Low on the platform means you get lots of knee flexion and then lots of muscle growth. Always a slow and controlled decent. We're always going to pause. I actually have never done this machine before. Oh, look at this guy here. Never yield the guys. But it's just pretty radically. I think it's hot works. It's going to be really hard to make. There's go down slow. That's not as hard. All the way full pause. Yes. And all the way up. Good. And a couple more. Just to get there. I mean, he's been talking to me. Sets are reps. Both. You know, I'm not quite sure yet on the sets, but reps are going to be around the fish. So you're going to be around the 15 reprangers. Now, if you wanted to keep something like this, audio lower back, how would you do that? This machine really probably doesn't pretty well, and you put your feet as low as possible. Okay. Get in the tips from the master. Good master. Rack of you. Amazing. All day. The letter pops with you. Show. Up. Again. Show them. Hands up. Slow. Up. Drive. Up. Up. Up. Rest. Go anywhere. Hands up one more. Drive. Control. Go. Slow. Up. Up. One last one. Go right now. Slow. Control. Deep. Up. Stores. Go, go, go. Rack. Oh, that was great. That was so good. I heard just looking at it. That dude. Get the bad dude. Just like his daddy. Get everything. Oh, I'm not his daddy. You know what I mean? I'm not his daddy. Up. Rope. Again. So, I started again. I didn't say rest. That was dumb. Up. Rope. Rest for real now. Rest. I want the next wrap to be slowing the way down. We're not dropping onto a deal. Do it your day job. Hey. Hey. Hey. It's not a slithing. Slow. Yes. Up. One more. Go. Right now. Slow. Yes. Slow. Up. Oh. One more. You fucking. Come on. I'm out. I'm out. Welcome to Russia. I'm back to the room. Slow. Slow. Now. Slow. Control. Up. And one final one for the books. Right now. That was so cool. That was so beautiful. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Now I want to touch me. I've been waiting to touch you this whole time. Do that was awesome. I didn't think you'd get that many reps based on how your warm-up work. Fucking problems. I've been serious problems. Oh. You're warm-up looks shaky. This one was way better. I was really impressed. All right. Zack. High quality reps just like last time. You don't have to do anything differently. It was perfect. Slow and controlled. Super deep. Let's get a couple reps in there, man. Good. Hey. The more of these you do, the taller you go. Oh. Let's go. Up. No mercy. No bouncing. Slow. Up. I like him slower. I'm right. You got him. Slow. Get out down. Up. Drive. Back. Again. Hands up. Another day. Slow. Up. Up. Drive. Rack. Now's that. Come over here with me, Ruff. Stop. Back it up. He's going to be doing lunges. What about stand right here? One. One after another. No rest. Two. All right. Big chest. Look up at God. He'll save you. Slow. Up. I love you. Slow. Up. No breaks. Go. Slow. Up. Turn. Up. What the fuck was that? Up. Chest up. Bullshit. Zero. Don't touch your fucking legs, Zach. You're the fucking man. Do the shirt right. Do it right. Yes. Up. Down. Up. Down. Up. One more. Bring down the wood. You're done. That's it. So I got a question for you. I can check this out. What does it that you have against quadriceps muscles? I hate them. Why don't you get them to that fucking bar? I hate them. You have a lot of time. I'm not going to get them. I'm going to get them. Finish it. Up. Up. Again. Right away. No rest. Slow. Up. Up. Again. Go. Slow. Up. Up. Up. Again. Go. Go. Slow. Now. Up. Up. Up. Rest. Rest. Don't go anywhere. Oh, you fucking. Let's get to begin. Slow and right down. Up. Up. Why am I last one? Hit it. Slow. Up. Up. That's it. Up. Back. Up. Up. Right away. Right away. Drop that fucking towel. Mm. Let's go. Lunch. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Well, no fucking worry. Up is the fucking wall down, ma'am. I get the job right. Slow and control. Gentle touch. Go. Go. Up. Again. Keep going. Don't stop. Go motherfuckers. Up. Up. Up. Up. Denver. You won't continue to stand up. Change. Slow. You're welcome. Down. Up. Go! Again. Chest up. Get the rest of our attack knee. Gentle touch of the knee. Don't spend any time down there. Go. Slow. Gentle. Yes. Again. Just like that. Go. Down. Go. Go. Slow. Up. That's it. Ah. God. Damn. Thank you. Oh. Thank you. Oh. I got a set. I got a set. I got a set. I got a set. I got a set. I got a set. I got my way. I'll tackle you. No, you won't. Not in this state. Oh, we just. Oh. Tackle with no legs. Yeah. Straight. You're going to hug him for him on me. Wee. That was really good. That was really good. That's training. You showed up today. That's training. That's training. All right. YouTube. A couple things that I want to know. Zack is the fucking man. Crush this workout. He's not even breathing heavy. Huge awesome future head. Honor to have you here sir. Amazing work. Well, I've trained three people that were more pathetic than you, but you're real close. Amazing work today. Amazing. Way to put yourself off course. And for the rest of you, if you ever get to be, what would you do to what did you do in the US Marines back when you were in the US? This is a great color for Rick Hives and maybe his engineer. Some people are born tougher. Some people are made tougher. So think about talking to your recruiting officer. Some people are free. Some people are free. Some people are just fake. They're all shit. Don't blinks. Overweight Jewish people. They're also balding. I'll see you guys next to stay brutal. Thank you.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NSATS Predization. Welcome back to the Targeting the Muscle Series where we take traditional exercises and sometimes not so traditional and help you find variations and techniques that light a target that target muscle better. Stimulate the target muscle better. That's what I should have said. Today the target muscle is the side delt, probably also the trap and the exercise is the upright row. Now I will be demoing using a barbell upright row but this basically applies all these tips basically apply to if you do it with easy bar. If you do it with dumbbells in any cases and definitely with a cable so let's get to it. All right tip number one is hand position and here's the tip play with a bunch of positions, see which ones feel best on your shoulders, on your elbows, on the actual side delts. There are many options. Some people, leaders that may be, actually prefer a closer grip. Some folks prefer a really wide grip and a lot of folks prefer something in the middle. You have to play with all of these grips before you right off the upright row is no good. I had a training partner once. His name is Aaron Thomas. That would follow him on social media. He benefited most from an ultra close grip which I thought was insane. His my shoulder would fall off and I did a medium grip a little wide and I thought that was great and if he tried it he wouldn't be able to do it at all. We were trained partners. We had the same basic program and everything. We were built a little bit different and that meant we did wildly different grips. Give that a shot. You might find a grip after a while that's like oh my god this is amazing one of the other grips just didn't work all that well. Next tip. Sometimes this works. Leading with the elbows. There's a temptation rope right rows to just pull the bar. Just up. It an ends up being this weird reverse curl thing where your elbows are below your hand and that's a little strange. Yeah there's some translocation some side delton ball and on a ton. What's better is no matter the implement you have is to try to lead up with the elbows. Now at the very top you can absolutely do one of these but at least from here to here you are your elbows to rise first. That can really put you in touch with that side delton. Get things going as a postly just trying to get the way it up anyway you can that might not work out as well. What height should you pull to really depends on what your shoulders can handle? Elbows can handle and what hits the muscle the best. There's a little bit of a trade-off. An average for folks hitting the muscle the best often comes only at the luxury of a high degree of safe mobility. Here's what I mean. Not such a great way to hit the dose. Is this you just pull to the sternum to hear and back down. That being said pulling to the sternum is totally fine. It can work great and if that's the only thing first of all if that works best lights up your side delts, amazing. If anything else hurts your shoulders or elbows don't do it just stick to this. That's one option. The next option is to pull to the clavicle which is just you know right above your chest that works too. There are more options you can pull to the eyes. You'll have to flick your wrists up just a little bit to do that in most cases but you get a crazy wrong. So you pull to the eyes and back down elbows get really high feels great. Generally the higher you pull the more side delts involvement there is. If your shoulders can take it I recommend you pull higher. Here's the bonus round one courtesy of Dr. James Hoffman. Pull to above the face. You start out here. Slow that eccentric. Go up and slow that eccentric. Huge, huge stimulus. Honestly guys 45 pounds or so for me is working weight for sets of like 15 to 20. Fucking hard demo. Do you get it all the way up here and slow that eccentric down. You're going to fire up your side delts. If your shoulders are hanging don't worry don't go that high. As high as you can to get the best shoulder work every option is a perfectly good variant. Next tip controlling the eccentric is huge. It is so, so tempting to do upright rows of every kind machine barbell dumbbell and just ugh do this. It's good the concentric is working but the eccentric a lot of times if you don't write it out you miss out on that amazing stimulus. Lower the weight. Your boy is dealing with a fucking empty bar here. Come up to wherever you come up. Slow that eccentric from the very top. Do you want to come up? Slow it. Fucking is awful. Oh, I can already feel my side delts. If you can't feel your side delts with this shit. I ain't enough for you. But on a serious note give that slow eccentric a try. No one will weigh up slow it until it gets to here. Then fast slow. Slow, slow until just about this mark here. Give it a shot. It might work wonders. Final tip for trying to get upright rows to hit your side delts and maybe your traps a little better is to actually bend over a little bit. So some folks they prefer standing up straight. Give you good side angle here and do an upright rows. Now dancing wrong with that but some people get a little bit more if they lean over like maybe 10 or 15 degrees. Bend at the hips the bar hangs lower. You come like this and all of a sudden you might be feeling a whole bunch of crap in your shoulders that you weren't feeling and sometimes for some people. It's significantly less stress on their elbows and on their shoulder joints. So that might be a big winner. Now you'll have to use like 50% of the normal weight 60% maybe. So get ready for a huge ego hit. But we're not in the gym to get egos. We are in the gym to build muscles. Optimally no matter what it takes. So that once we have big muscles we can be everywhere else grocery store airport picking up your kids from daycare and then you can have a fucking ego about the shit. Daycare instructors like oh my god your arms are so big you look yes what if they are. All right folks when you're done flexing random preschool teachers what you can do is throw some comments below on which exercises you want us to talk about how to hit the target muscle. Whatever is troubling you I can't feel my triceps on you know cable pushed out. We've got some answers. I was going to say we have the answers and that's a whole bunch of egos who bullshit makes our goddamn sense. We're trying our god damn best. How about that? Throw them in there and let us know we will get to every reasonable exercise that I'm competent at doing. If you like Turkish get ups or some shit I don't even know what the fuck that is. We'll get to it like comment subscribe and get some thought to joining our members area here's the benefit. We get more of your money. Here's your benefit. Oh wait shit that's right you got a crap load of exclusive content tons of videos come out early bunch of videos nobody else ever sees and your own almost exclusive Q&A were like we answer 14 of questions for members and like what and a half questions for non members. That's the real shit. Give it a shot. Oh and if you can't find the click join button get off your phone and get onto a PC. Sorry I didn't make you two that's just how it works. See you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here with Renaissance Periodization. Four Renaissance Periodization? Eh. Renaissance Periodization. Just saying, just saying the phrase. Today's tip is about how to maximize the effectiveness of your chest training, with a really cool cue that I use that is basically reaching out and up with your chest. So here's the deal. When you're doing chest presses of any kind, push ups, dumbbells, barbells, machines, rings, anything in between. What you're trying to do ideally, in most cases is really stimulate your chest as much as possible. Oh, my chest bounced at that. It's just getting excited. And it pays to make sure that when you're going through this difficult lifting and you're trying a lot and you bother to warm up and come to the gym and everything, you might as well maximize that technique to get as much stimulus for the pacts as possible. So it's not just a matter of moving the weights up and down. And the thing is, is if you lie down on a bench press or a machine or anything like that, you sit down and you sit down flat with your shoulders forward and you do some pressing, your anterior deltoids and your triceps, if you have certain genetics, especially can get in a lot of those stimulus, a lot of the work and actually become limiting factors. Such at every, after every single set of presses, you're kind of like, oh yeah, my pecs got a little bit, I think, but my fan adults are just pumped beyond belief. My triceps are already like shaky and almost sore now. What am I doing these presses for? And can I do presses in a way that maximally stimulates my chest? And the answer is yes, and here it is. The best technique for pressing for most people, barbell, dumbbell, machine, anything is as the machine or bar implement or whatever descends or as an push up you descend, you want to reach up and out with your chest. And a part of that up and out motion is going to have you retracting your scapula, a, your shoulder blades back. It's like one of my friends way back in high school termed the funky pigeon. It's like pigeons log around like this all the time. Oh, I just accidentally did a Greg DeSatron Prussian. Scott, the video I love that one. So if you put your chest up, stick it out by arching her back a little bit and then having your scabs back, as you descend, you've already pre-stretched your pecs, which means they're going to get a really big stimulus the deeper that you go. At the bottom of the movement, let's say that it's a barbell bench press for simplicity. You're thinking as much about lowering the bar to your chest at the very bottom, as you are with your hip stationary on the bench, no butt wiggling, reaching up with your chest as much as possible to meet the bar on the way down. It's not you bring the bar down completely. Most of the movement is, the very bottom interest, so you reach, you're already reaching the whole time. You reach extra really, get your chest up to touch the bar. That reaching pre-structures the pecs, while at the same time putting them as the most limiting factor position in the lift. What you want to think about is exposing your chest. If you come down like this and you're all contorted, your scabs are forward, your back is flat, your shoulders are front. Your chest is kind of pointed down, you're hiding your chest. If I was benching with an injury, I would do that. In fact, I used to have some really nasty pecs injuries back in the day, and still in some of my lifting, less and less now because my pecs are feeling pretty good. Still in some of my lifting, I'll intentionally pro-tracked, so as to keep stress away from my pecs because they get too stressed. But that's not your problem very likely. Your problem is you want the pecs to be extra stressed. You're literally putting them into the line of fire. Like when Superman is blocking bullets with his chest, you're like, man, I love old school Superman. Where he's like, man, I'll save you your name. Man, but then he was always polite. But you know what I'm saying? Bruce Wayne, aka Batman, sorry to get out your real identity. Unrelated, sort of related. He's late, bro. late 1920s, 30s, being a comic book superhero, sweet. Just get the slay all the time. Cat, woman, how's that for a list? In any case, Superman, expose his chest to the world and the bullets bounce off. You're the same way, except it's a barbell or dumbbells or whatever. And if you have dumbbells when you're coming out and around your chest, you want to stick your chest up as high as possible at the bottom, reaching for the sky slash ceiling, depending on if you lift indoors or outdoors, I suppose. And on the way back up, you have two options. Jared Feather would say, Mr. Ithby Pro Jared Feather, and I train partners. Man, when I have a training partner at all, he's my training partner. He would say try to maintain that arsenal of tractor position even through the press. I think that's totally valid. My other perspective, as I also think it's valid to once you've gotten to that bottom position, to just think about pressing. And if you get out of alignment a little bit and the little protraction, I'm not too worried about that. But what I am worried about concerned about attentive to, even better, is on the way back down to your reassert yourself. I think what Jared is doing is, on the way back up, he gets really great pack activation. Concentrics, not as important as each one, each one tricks, but still something. And then because he doesn't have to get out of position, he doesn't have to reassert. Now it's automatically started in the right spot. Some machine, some set up, some dumbbell stuff. You might have to get out of position a little bit at the top. So what you should learn to do is potentially do the movement dynamically. You set up arch, reach, and then as you press, you lose some of it, and then you set up an arch and reach, especially on a machine, you can do it more dynamically. In a barbell press, I would say probably just keep that archer tractor position the entire time. So, do you want to think about as a reaching, your chest up and out, scabs back as far as possible, to reinforce that to really open your chest up. You want to show as much of your pack to the world as possible. You don't want to hide it like this. You want to do this so that as much of it as shown as possible, so that you are in a proper leverage position to expose your pack to as much tension under load and tension, and a stretched position as possible. And then you are going to get a lot of the exercises. If you need an extra little bit of help for getting your chest in presses, for whatever machine you're doing, try to get a slightly wider grip. On a crazy wide grip, that usually doesn't pay off, and feels we have a shoulders, a little bit of a wider grip can help. Try instead of having your elbows by your sides to flare them out a little bit at the bottom, that'll hit the pex, carefully, slowly. And lastly, try to get it so that you pause at the bottom for a split second. But not pause when you unload the chest, pause under load. Just the bottom of the press, you're paused, and you're still full tension on the bar. One whole second or even two whole seconds, tears your shit up like crazy in the best possible way, and increases the probability that your pack's will be maximally stimulated. When you begin to do this, you will have a reduction in strength, corner quote, and your ability to lift heavy weights, because it is a new technique for you. As you get stronger or time, and as you learn and become comfortable with that technique, you realize that's actually all the technique all the power lifters use, and you'll be able to lift even more than ever. So expect a short-term reduction in how much you compress in all the pressing movements that you do, and then a long-term increase to weigh beyond anything you could do before. Stay safe, go down slow, use your technique, and I'll see you next time, and I'll definitely see you in the crowd, because your pack's going to be enormous. Folks, take care. See you next time.

Hey folks, it's Dr. Mike for Renaissance Parasization. Welcome to the Targeting Muscle Series. Today's muscle is the back muscle, plural. And the exercise is the barbell bent over row. We're going to give you a few tips and tricks to get you to feel the barbell bent row more in the part of your back that you want. Let's get started. Alright folks, so the first big tip for properly bent rowing and getting your back to actually get a hit is the practice of hinging into the movement versus bending into the movement. So if you just bend over, notice my rounded lower back and you do bent rows like that's cool. Your arms are moving, your back is ostensibly pulling them sweet. The problem is that as soon as you round your spine, two things happen. One, you're pulling muscles get much weaker because any time your back is rounded, the central drive coming from your brain through your spinal cord reduces because your body thinks it's not state nor safe. You can't literally row as much with your back if you round your back then if you keep your back flat. The second thing is that back rounding means that the spinal ractor muscles have to work for a much more stretched position and mechanically disadvantage of position. They have to try a lot harder to make sure you don't like pop your vertebrae out of your asshole or whatever they do if they turn off. So because your lower back muscles are always in a poor position, they tend to be the thing that gives out first. So if you're trying to train your spinal ractors at a lengthened isometric position while pretending to train your rest of your pulling muscles, that's a great way to bend row. Ideally what you want to do is give a challenge to your spinal ractors. Something they may not get on a chest supporter row, which also want to put them and the back into the most mechanically favorable position that allows all the other muscles to come close to failure and gives you a really strong launch point for being able to really contract those muscles. So instead of bending over, you shouldn't be event overall, being super-natic, you should be a hinge row. You do as you basically do this to flick a deadlift down to the bar. Notice my tummy's out. The back is nice and tight. I've hinged using my hips, not my back. My back is straight. My spinal ractors are strong. I grab the bar. And then rowing is easy as fuck and I can row hundreds of pounds and all of it is my back. Instead of just my spinal ractors, lats, ractors, ramblorns, traps, everything. With maximum load because they're strong and a strong position. Round it over, I'm nice and tight. Get that a phone. Alright, next tip. If you want to completely isolate and small muscles in your back, what you want to do is make sure that your scapulae don't protract or retract at all. Even though tons of back muscles that are fucking gnarly and awesome and big help to do that, and if you do that, those muscles grow and then you look like you're fucking tank. If you want the bent row to be like a really shitty version of a chest supported row, then by all means keep your scaps stable. You hear people on recommendation saying keep your scaps stable and rows. Boundless day. Thank you for your opinion. Kindly step the fuck out. A real bent over row uses all of the muscles in your back. That means that at the bottom, you're going to protract your scapulae and at the top, you're going to retract. It's going to happen naturally just because of the way you move. So instead of having a row, or nice and arched, and we do this, notice my arms are stopping at this weird point. Instead of that, watch what my shoulder blades do. Stretched at the beginning, come back, big stretch, a shoulder blades come forward every time. Notice my back is still arched. By doing that, you get your whole back involved. At some point, you're going to get your back so big. Friends will just no longer want to hang out with you. I just love you, Frank. You are great. You're back to big. The last tip was about allowing your scapulae to protract at the bottom. But if you allow your scapster protract and you start dropping your chest, there can be a lot of movement in the spine, which is sweet for a flatching row. But we're not trying to do a flatching row. We are trying to do a regular barbell row. If at the bottom, we focus on keeping our chest up while simultaneously allowing our scaps to travel forward, it stretches the living fuck out of your upper back and makes for an awesome hypertrophy stimulus. So, instead of bent rolling like this, where you'll notice the chest falls forward, what we do is arch our back nice and tight and begin with a chest super upright. I'm going to hold that position. Chest up, chest up, big stretch, chest up, fuck. Even with this demo weight, I feel my shit all fucked up. That folks is a good thing. What about grip width? Where do you want to grab? Here's the actual answer. There are tons of right answers and it all depends on two things. One is stimulus to fatigue ratio. Some people are built a certain way that when they grab here, they're going to feel an amazing stimulus to the back and the fatigue is going to be low. Some people are going to grab here. It's going to be vast. Some people are going to grab here and it's going to be vast. The other thing is variation. You may be used to grabbing like this for a few months, it gets stale. Now, you grab out here and it gets better. Try a bunch of different grip widths, even underhand, especially if you have an easy bar. You may find that it's all winners. Next, we're going to touch the bar. Just one simple rule. The closer the touch is this way, sternum chest, etc. The more of your upper back, especially rumbley, mid-trap musk of the shirt is engaged. The closer you touch towards your hips, the lower you touch, the fractionally more lat involvement you get, but you still get a bunch of that solution to. There's no correct answer here. You should just two different variations. So, if you're in a position where you're getting the bar here, then you touch right up to the chest, more upper back, even more rear delts. On the other hand, if you touch right into the hips, it's a bit more lat. There's no right way or wrong way, just know the stuff. So, when you're targeting whatever part of your back that you're targeting it with rows, which could be multiple parts, you do in the right variation or anywhere in that spectrum that gets you your goals. Checkmarked. What about deficits? Here's the rule with rowing. As long as your back is tight, and your arms are straight and stretched at the bottom, and you can still get that full stretch. It's the correct answer. If that occurs for you here, and a spine bend like there, or a hip bend like this, fine. Here, fine. Here, still totally cool. If you are flexible enough, regular plates may not allow you to get a full stretch at the bottom, and you may want a bit more of a bend because generally the further over you bend, the more of your mid and lower back can get hit. Versus if you just, if you bent over row right here, it's almost all upper back. So, you can do something like this. You can take one of these, a little hunky-dway rubber mats, push it under, step up, and let roll off of it. Totally fine. You can do many mats instead of using these kinds of 25. You can use the regular 25, which are smaller. Auto creates a deficit, no wrong answers. In my body building career so far, I've done 25 rows. I've done 35 rows slightly elevated. I've done regular rows all the time. Back when I started, I was so influxable. Even the regular handles, I couldn't, the regular size plates I couldn't touch the ground with. So, here's the thing. As long as your back is tight, and this is stretched, you're already doing it right. If you can slowly get down and get even deeper, on average it'll make it a little bit better, wherever ever go to a deficit, which requires you to round your back, or lose a huge fraction of how much weight you can left from the ground. Stick with those tips, folks, and you'll have such a big back. People on the street will come up to you and go, hey, I'm looking deal, but did you know the unit fucking huge back? We'd be like, hey, thanks a lot. And I'm Matt, and see you guys next time.

Hey folks, it's me, Dr. Mike, for NSW and on today's high-perchography myths series episode, we'll be talking about over-valuing the mind muscle connection. That is, mind muscle connection is more important than everything else. We'll talk about what the myth is. Talk about some of the good points it makes, some of the bad, which is why it's a myth, and a little bit of real talk at the end to make sure we're on the same page as to what actually works well. So, this idea that the mind muscle connection is ultra-altern important is not just something that we have observed, people sort of say they say it rather directly. This is something I've heard many times, read in muscle magazines, seen in YouTube videos, an Instagram post by professional bodybuilder sometimes, is that you have to focus on the muscle and don't worry about the weights or the reps. Another thing people say is bodybuilding is about making lightweight, seem heavy. It sounds like some voodoo, something cool. You're exactly why that's a good thing, but it has something to do with how your muscle is sort of exposed to the weight. And a lot of people will say, look, don't chase PRs. Don't worry about how strong you are, just make sure that you focus on the working muscle, and that's all you need. Now, there are some good silver linings in there. One is that a strong mind muscle connection properly done can enhance the muscle growth potential of a lift, specifically with respect to the muscle that you are focusing on. Like triceps and a skull crusher, for example. They're way too a skull crusher, we have no idea what the triceps is doing, that aren't ideal for triceps hypertrophy, but if you really clue in on the right stuff about what the tricep is doing, you can alter the technique and alter the execution of the lift, such that it actually helps triceps grow more. So there's definitely something there. In addition to that sort of expanding on it, your technique and an exercise can be really helped by paying attention to what the muscle is doing, not just moving from point A to point B. For example, if you do some kind of pressing movement on a machine, cable, dumbbells, barbell, whatever, if you just press up and down, that's cool. But you may feel like, oh yeah, like my pecs, if you pay attention to your pecs, you're doing it, okay, they're contracting, they're stretching fine. But if you arch your back and you retract your shoulder blades and then you do it press, you guided by my muscle will be like, wow, this really does seem to hit the pecs much more. In every single exercise, there are ways of slightly altering the movement that will give you more of a feel in the muscle that you're trying to work. And other ways that will give you less of one. And if you follow the technical hints at more of the ways that help the muscle work more, you're going to have a better time, you're going to be able to do more of the work for that muscle and get better results. By doing that, you're lifting the same weight, same reps, but you're doing it in a technique that is guided by the mind muscle connection by your perception of what's going on with a target muscle on the one extreme, it's like, I have no idea what I'm packs you're doing, don't care on the other hand, it's like your mind is in the pec, your brain is a giant pec. could've said that better. But on that end, if you allow the feeling of what really hits the pecs to determine your technique, you're going to end up with a technique that probably has a bigger stimulus to the target muscle. But because you may feel it less in your joints, because of that enhanced technique, you actually need fewer repetitions to get the job done and get close to failure, you may have less fatigue and more stimulus, better stimulus to fatigue ratio, that's a win, that's awesome. These are all great things. However, that's taking a very rosy approach to what exactly the mind muscle connection is and how it's supposed to be done. Here's the bad stuff. Most of the people that say things like the mind muscle connection is everything or it's super, super important. When they say mind muscle connection, they mean the bicep feels like it's moving and contracting. The muscle feels like it's moving and contracting, but that doesn't really mean a whole lot as far as the stimulus is concerned. Because mind muscle connection to be truly indicative of stimulus, of overload, has to be a go beyond simple movement and perception. After all, there is a way in which you can feel your biceps moving and contracting during a lat pull now. But your back does most of the work biceps do a small amount. It ends up being like, well yeah, the biceps definitely help. They definitely stretch and contract and you can focus on them during the pull down, because of the mechanics of the exercise, the back still does the majority of the work gets the majority of the stimulus. So, in reality, what you will do is if you really think feeling a muscle contract and stretch is the thing beyond all others that tells you you're doing a good job in the gym stimulating growth, you're going to end up doing like yoga or pilates and being like, now this is a real workout. Yoga will get you to feel every single muscle stretch you contract depending on the pose, but it doesn't grow much muscle because it doesn't push you hard. So, the real way to detect a muscle connection isn't to feel like, yeah, I feel my biceps during this. Anything you can feel your bicep, you can do curls with one arm and no curls with the other unloaded, no weight here, dumbbell here, like, yep, things are happening. Well, I definitely feel my bicep here too. So what is not even any weight in there. If you really do my muscle connection right. You have to use our method. We do have an RP method of defining and determining my muscle connection and that is two part one. Do you and to what extent do you feel tension in the target muscle? High tension, like, holy crap, my bicep is pulling like crazy. Both bones at which it's attached to and two is the burn, especially for higher ups that's towards the end. If your biceps are burning during a movement and you can feel a ton of tension during them through that movement. You do have a mind muscle connection, but it's all the kind that makes it likely that you're growing. Why? Because tension literally causes muscle growth and the burn is indicative of both getting close enough to failure to cause muscle growth. It's also indicative of the fact that that's for sure the muscle that's the limiting factor. And metabolites themselves are growth promoting, like the burn actually is a symptom of the kind of molecules in there that do turn on growth pass pathways like lactate for example. That's the way to do my muscle connection, not just oh, I feel this muscle. Feeling is nice, but again, if you go by feeling, you may end up doing a look all due respect, no offense. Was he asked, bikini workouts, were you get on the assisted pull up machine and you do that one leg like, stop bouncing, pedal push, and I got my god, I really feel my glute. Like yes, they are moving. How far from failure is that? This is even possible for you to mechanically load the glute enough where if you did you would stand up off the machine because it's by definition that machine set up less load than your body weight. If you so weak that body weight lunges don't work, course not, that's the kind of shit the mind muscle connection gets really wrong. It's not enough to feel your muscle working. It has to be working with a sheet load of tension through it and hopefully it higher reps a crap load of burn, no that's not that fun. But it's the right kind of mind muscle connection. The mind muscle connection of feeling the muscle work is how you get to a good technique fine, but then on top of that you have to layer in additions of load over the weeks and or additions of repetitions per set. You have to continue to make each set harder in a measurable way. Step one, okay, I know this works my packs. Step two, let's actually make sure I'm doing the work. If you don't do that second part, you'll do all kinds of cool flies and presses and you really feel it. You guys people will do that shit where they get on the machine sideways and they'll put the one arm on the shit that I can't make fucking pegs bro. Word up, how many reps do you do this week? How many last week? Well, looks like you underloaded. You have to progress. Thus the training sure absolutely you have to not have to. I'll take that back. It's better if you feel the muscle working than not. It's even better if you feel it highly tensed or highly burned. But within those contexts, you also have to make sure it's progressing. So when people say do just think about the muscle contracting in these cable curls. Don't worry about how many reps you're doing, how much load. That's good and well, if you're doing a warmupset or you're teaching the technique. But once you're doing the work sets, you got to grind and for a specific purpose and two specific point. I did 10 reps last week, this week, it's 11. I did 105 pounds last week, this week, it's 110. Something. So the my muscle connection doesn't predominate over everything. As a matter of fact, that core of good technique with load and reprogression is the thing. My muscle connection is something that will magic fairy dust you sprinkle on it. And the best flavor of magic fairy dust is tension and burn. A shitty not so great flavor is just feeling the muscle existing. Cool. But like you should be able to do that anyway, It's like being a human being and knowing where your body is in space. I'll book if I know anything about that. The best my muscle connection occurs when you perceive tension and burn. And you progress in load and reps with that technique that maximizes tension and burn with every single rep closer to failure. A lot of times people will start with a good technique, but then they'll kind of like try to get away from it because it's too much. They use their biceps at the time and the first couple of reps in their go. God, this hurts my biceps. I'm going to flam my elbows out a little bit and use some other muscles too. They can take the tension off the bice wrong. So my muscle connection use properly is not an alternative to the pain and the suffering that comes with pushing a set with excellent technique close to failure that lack of escape. My muscle connection is not an offer. My muscle connection is something that helps you stay in the lane. And make sure you're going as fast as possible down that highway of death and destruction that is a set very close to failure. So it's not so much. Oh, hey, listen, don't worry about the reps and load. Think about my muscle connection. It's actually a little bit different. It is hey. Goal reps and goal load are super fucking important, but every single rep you do had to better be tension and burn in the target muscle and thus we check both boxes. That is a really good idea. Real talk. Yes, the mind muscle connection people have a point. It is possible to push so hard for reps and load that you lose total touch of your muscles total touch from your technique and you're just moving around in space. Look, you can go to any gym in America and the world and see some guy benching and be like that's for his pex. Three, four, five reps, six reps. That's for his soul. That's for his ego. That's for his future injuries. That's for his ex girlfriend. Oh, and time to go save him because the shit goes from here. To this kind of shit. Guys trying to bring their leg up to bench with. That's for sure nonsense. Don't do that. Instead what you can do is during the warmups really try to feel which muscles are working. You won't get a ton of tension or a ton of burn because it's warmups. The time for that original old school style muscle connection is in the warmups. Set that technique. Begin to do repetitions with an appropriate load with the goal of hitting a mini PR relative to last session last week. And then as you do that, let tension and burn be your canaries in the coal mine. They're right. They fly in. Hopefully they fly back out. Let them guide you to how to make sure your technique stays on track. Yes, elbows in. I told myself that in all my fucking god, this tension is crazy. Ah, the burn blah, blah, blah, blah. Instead of oh, tension and burn. I don't want this pain. I'm going to let my elbows flare out. The best way to gain is critical. Set in stone hard fucking training with good technique. And then on top of that, the way you stay in good technique is monitoring your tension and your burn. And yes, there is a place in warmups for just feeling the muscle out to make sure your technique is really good. But at ends there, once the work set starts, all pain all day. You know, the real psychic kind of pain you don't ever recover from sleep and trying to go to bed at night and you just feel about set three men set three of hack squats hurt me in a way. Maybe I'll never recover from you know, but I'll be okay. But just never the same. No. Like kids playing with a balloon and let's go and he's like, my, my, my, my look up. You come up to the kid and you're like, you know, see that balloon? I'll come back with a part of me that I lost during hack squatting. And the lady's like, what the fuck are you doing talking to my kid, taser? And then you're out for the 50th time. That's why I don't hang out playgrounds. Anyway, like hit that like button, apparently YouTube likes it hit the subscribe button. If you're not yet a subscriber, if you are, hello, we need again. Hit the notification bell. Scott, the video guys that a thing we want people to do. Why not? Look, it's Dr. Mike and he's annoying and he's on your phone. And then we have a membership section. We get even more crazy nerd content in depth breakdowns. We'll never, ever, ever stop posting all the free shit on this channel that you love so much. You might never, ever, I mean, you know, like, see me and I'm getting killed with car accident or something. But we will have membership and that's extra. Always extra. All right, folks, thank you so much for tuning in. Tell your friends about this channel. If they're good people, if they're bad people, tell them anyway, because I should, we'll charge our money. Ha ha. See you next time.

We hear that male testosterone levels have dropped on average since like the 70s or something like that. First of all, is that true? Yeah, so there are some truths to that. And the reason is because we know that as people get more unhealthy, they get more comb-marbid conditions, more diabetes, more high blood pressure, more high cholesterol, all of these things are basically going up and testosterone subsequently is going down. So the more you acquire these things, the more obese, the more metabolic syndrome, the more we're seeing testosterone go down and even in younger people. Because they're also unhealthy. Legendarily so. Right. And so that's the number one reason. There's also a whole host of other things that contribute. We are having more exposures to endocrine disrupting chemicals in the environment. And some of which we do have legislation to control. Like there's no microbeads in microbeads, sort of products anymore that are available in the United States. BPA freeze, the very common thing. So there are things in place to try to limit exposures, but we're eating like what a credit card of plastic every year or something. I make sure you need a real credit card every year, just not to miss out. Yeah, of course. So you know, I mean, I think there are exposures that we can sort of limit, but to some degree, we're all exposed. And the good news is that we can get rid of a lot of it, but at some point it does accumulate, right? And so that's causing issues. And so you get all those things together. And then you know, when you're thinking about things that boost testosterone, it's like movement, right? It's moving your body lifting weights, doing, you know, high intensity interval training, and like we are more and more sedentary. Right? We're doing zoom meetings at home, like we're sitting on our couchs and like since COVID. And so I think that's playing a big role in it. Yeah. And we're more stressed out than ever, right? People are just so stressed with chronic levels of stress. And if you have chronic, chronically elevated cortisol is going to affect your testosterone. That's a big deal. That also ends up affecting sexual behavior tremendously, because I think stress is like the great killer of sex life. Yeah. Absolutely. I mean, you can't get turned on when you're like stress. Yeah, it's like there's now's not the time. No, yeah, you've got to imagine like you've got like a machine gun up and there's zombies down range and the girl next to you is like, let's get it on. You're like, are you crazy? I'm just having a place for this young lady. Yes. If you low key always have stress, you low key have low testosterone probably and probably like less fruitful and regenerative sexual interactions that are just healthy for humans to have. Right. And it's sort of like a self-fulfilling prophecy. Like your testosterone goes up when you have anticipation for sex. Yes. And so if you don't have anticipation for sex because you're stressed all the time, that also plays a role. Yeah. Right. And then, you know, I think the other big one is sleep. Yeah. We don't sleep. We are scrolling our phones until whatever hour of night or we're purposely staying up late because life is still stressful. And we want this downtime. Sure. But then we're hurting ourselves. That's a big one. People will have these really ambitious. I mean, to make this not so negative and like balanced humans are accomplishing more than ever. Absolutely. Our incomes are staggering relative to our ability to buy things. Absolutely staggering. So we're just hyper-successful. But we're so successful that we end up working so much and getting so stressed. And we end up having like a half an hour at the end of every day to be like, well, just you time now. Yeah. And like, I don't need half an hour. I need three hours. And then you're missing sleep. Yeah. And that whole thing of stress is going on. And you don't have time to connect with your partner because everyone's working like a dog. We wanted this. One thing I like to tell people is like economically, almost every American, not every, but almost every. Can afford to work like half as much and still have a great standard of living. And when you're like, hey, do you want to work half as much and half less money? You're like, most people are just like, nah, I'm going to have one money. And I'm going to come and film. But, you know, zoomism is like a real shame. Right. So you've got to keep up with the Jones. Is it hard to keep your lifestyle. You've got to keep working. And, you know, I think that's a real problem, right? Because like we also have now because of modern technology, the ability to work like from our phones. Twenty percent of air. Like you can literally be constantly working if you so choose to. Every time I'm on a flight to go somewhere, usually for work, I need to look at my phone. It was here for three hours. Might as well get to work and I just ended up working. I think a lot of people end up doing that. Yeah. That's a big deal. All right. Let's talk about the elephant in the room. I'm kidding. I don't know. This is shit. I want you. That's funny when I say it. People have lower sperm counts as well. Males have lower sperm counts. Correct. There have been many hypothesis as to why that is. Part of it's testosterone mediated. Part of it is no doubt. Endocrine to suffering chemical to some limited or moderate extent. But it's not the whole picture. No, no, that. Yeah. But what about ejaculation frequency mediated by pornography? Because this is a story I've heard. Mm-hmm. Folks are jerking it a lot. And what that does is it lowers the accumulation of higher testosterone through the week, for example, because it's kind of an off valve and also it reduces sperm count and keeps your sperm count lower. And maybe it also, and this is speculative. I'd love for you to touch on this. Somehow kind of deflates your deep drive and motivation for success or something like that. People are kind of fuzzy about that. It might reduce athletic performance. It just kind of takes the out of your sales. How much of that is true? Is it true that only the extremes is the effect everyone? What is your take on that? Well, let's talk about the stuff that we absolutely know. So we absolutely know is that when you are ejaculating frequently, your sperm concentration and count is going to be lower. Right? And so we've actually done multiple studies to figure out, like, how often should you ejaculate if you want to get pregnant? Right? So that's that there's an abundance of data on that. And they've had people abstain for days and days and days versus, you know, 24 hours. And they found that really, yes, your sperm count goes up over days. But at about five days, the sperm actually becomes has more DNA fragmentation and becomes genetically less favorable. And so you want to... Yes. So you don't really want that kind of sperm when you're trying to have a baby. So what we tell people at least in terms of, like, keeping healthy sperm is 24 to 40 hours. So you should have sex maybe every other day or every day during your fertile window. But that's sufficient. You don't need to do more than that and you don't need to do, you know, you don't need to go weight five days, right? Because you want to essentially have the best chance for sex to have a conception. So that's one. So two then talking about, like, how does it affect testosterone? Well, there's actually no data. There's like one study that looked at guys who abstained and it was like 10 guys. And they abstained for 21 days. And so they looked at testosterone levels. For all lying. Yeah, well, I mean, whatever. Who knows, but by the 21st day, they checked their testosterone again. And it was higher by about 15 an. And grams through desolater. Now that's nothing. It's nothing. Why that could be like a regular day. That's really the margin of error. Yeah. And so, and then also you could say, like, it's there at the end to Superatured. Like, if you really abstained for 21 days, like you're really excited. So that's going to play a role as well. So really, it was 10 healthy guys with no real medical problems. Who did this? And like, it's not enough to to make any sort of sort of finding with that. There was one other study was like 30 patients. And that was actually debunked at like pulled from the literature. So like still people are like looking at that study. And like there was actually a retraction of that study. So ultimately, there's really no evidence that ejaculating more frequently or abstaining for like no Nut and November, for example, or whatever, even retention. I'm not talking about it. I know. It's really going to make a difference in terms of like you getting your testosterone higher. Now, and so that's one thing. Now, in terms of like you said, like your mood or your feeling a little less and it's just a desire or urge for sex. Now, I think that's a whole host of different things. So why are you masturbating so frequently and using whatever means to do that? What does pornography or whatever? Why do you feel toaster? We were like, why? Yeah, okay. Don't you can't shame me. I, you're right. That's, if that's what you're into, just don't put your appendage in there. Okay, but exactly what it's for. It's safe. I think I used to be in an electrician. Anyway, please don't look for it. Anyway, so so the question is in why are you doing it? Usually what happens in people who are masturbating quite frequently. It is quite frequently. Can you tell us? I guess it's really quite frequently to the point where it's detracting from their life. Right. For some people, masturbating once a month is detracting to them. They feel a lot of shame or guilt or whatever. It's got. And then there's some people who they can masturbate everyday and they're fine. It doesn't cause any problems. They're having healthy relationships. They're going to work. They're doing other normal stuff and they're fine. And they're even in wink, basically. Right. And some people, they're doing it like five, six times a day. And that's, you know, that is causing a problem because they're like, Now, not working. They're not doing other things. Right. And so it's really subjective how much is too much. But in some people, like, why are they doing that? Right. Are they doing it because they're looking for pleasure? Are they doing it because they're bored? Are they doing it because they're depressed? And they're looking for a dopamine hit. Right. And so you could have to do porn or masturbation for anything. Right. And you're overeating. You're, you know, you're spending money and compulsive with shopping. Right. So like, it's really you're using that particular activity to either cure boredom or to deal with shame or distress or sadness or whatever, emotionally negative feelings. So the genesis really matters. Correct. And so in those cases, it's really not the act itself. It's what's driving the act. And so that then obviously you're not going to be happy and looking for like, like, joy in life because you're, you know, the reason you're doing this is because you're sad or you're bored or whatever. But that sad board things started first. What you're saying, it's like, you get into porn and all of a sudden you're like, This is my only reason for being and it just takes over. I'm sure that happens to something. Sure. If that's my no-order as far as I saw in the literature. Yeah. I mean, it's like three percent maybe, like, as it's probably higher now. I mean, the literature's a little bit older. But I think like the reality is that most people are using it for some purpose. Right. And they find that that's where they keep going for their joy. And it's not. And then they feel shame and they feel guilt and they have this moral incongruence with what they're doing. Like, oh, this is bad. This is shameful. And now they feel really bad and then to not feel bad, they do it again. Whoa. Yeah. Scott, that last one hit me, bro. That's like last Tuesday for me. The tears as lubricant also had I'm kidding. Okay. Interesting. So if I say, I want to do no not November. And for me, that's just like a fun thing. Fun way to challenge myself. No harm, no foul. Absolutely not. No. But if I'm doing no not November and I'm going to be like, this is going to reinvigorate my core masculinity and realign me with ancestral principles. I'm probably not going to see that. You know, I think some guys feel that it does though because they just feel this like now they're not focused on whatever the trigger was, right? They found some other way to cope with that trigger and they're not focused on this strong desire to like go master mate. And so now they're like, oh, I have all this clarity. I feel so gray. I'm like focused on real life and I'm having real connection with people. I'm not just thinking about masturbating. And so like they finally feel this clarity because they really did have a sort of an issue. Right? They were using it a lot and they were using it as a as a dependent someone else. And now they feel clarity. And so I think, you know what, if you do feel that way, that's great. But that doesn't mean that that's going to apply to every single person. Yeah. And what happens is a lot of people end up doing it because they feel like, oh, this is good for me. I need to do this. And they're they're like miserable. They're like clenching their pelvic floor and they're like, they're so stressed. And then they have a nighttime emission or a wectree. And they're like, oh my god, I failed. I'm a horrible person. Oh, well, they take it like that. Some people finally are like, or they get shamed if they're in a community where they're like, oh, this happened to me. Like, oh, how could you you failed now? You failed the challenge and you're not as much of a man or whatever, right? And so that's what I take issue with. I don't take issue with anyone feeling good about what they're doing. Great. Keep doing it. But like, don't push those values on people who don't necessarily need that or may not perceive that benefit. Sure. So no, not November. Totally optional. If it's something that empowers you and distresses you and allows you to focus on the rest of life amazing. If you try it and you realize that the thing that was letting you focus on the rest of life was getting off because if you don't get off, you're just constantly staring at titties instead of doing your job. Then it's time to uncork. Yeah. And go back to work. It is low key. I think that's vast majority of men masturbate for exactly that reason. Like, I'm not going to go to work after three days of not getting something out of my body because then everything interactions just like, I don't know. It's tough to convince people who are not male or extremely high sex-stripe female, what it's like to live in a male mind and like, evolution's one hell of a force. And it's always nudging like, hey, hey, think about sex. And you're like, I'm at work looking at code. It's like, okay. Hey, think about some sex. So God damn it. And so for some people, I think the uncorking is actually super therapeutic for some people that's 50, 50. And what you're saying is for others, the uncorking gets to be the focal point. But that's usually because they're coming from not so great alternative uses of their time. Yeah, in fact, they look so they've come up with this thing, like a compulsive, is it compulsive sexual behavior, some terminology. And basically, when there was one study where they looked at the characteristics of patients who had these these findings, like these six characteristics or whatever. And they overlaid them with depression. And they found that they were really like sort of in line with each other. So there may be that there's some concomitant like there's depression and they're actually treating their depression. And these compulsive behaviors, right? We don't know for sure. This is all really early thinking, but I think that there's something there, right? Like we should be asking patients and checking for depression and you know vice versa. Yeah, when I have been seriously overworked in various phases of my life. You know, like eventually at the other end of overwork is depression if you push far enough. And if then it's adaptive because your body's like, we're going to turn, we're going to turn you off so you can recover. You're going to kill yourself if you go like this. And so what I found is that notions of eating tasty food, of getting lots of sleep, of having uninterrupted relaxation time, and of nutting for lack of better term, are like start to look like these repositories of relaxation that you can go to. And the only reason they feel like that is because you're so fucking overwhelmed. And as soon as I became not overwhelmed, I'm like, I do I want to jerk off and the answer is like, nah, I'm good. And he's going about your day. But if it's a go, my God, this is guaranteed pleasure and it just gets me away from everything. It's just a good. I can totally see how folks in like not my junior league, not really depression. For real, for real depression, that can be like one of your only places of solace. And also, I think describes a little bit of the vectors for obesity when people get really, really, really obese. Almost always what I've noticed is food for them is their their hiding place from the world. Right. From their extreme stress they live in, mostly in their own heads. But then again, stress only matters in your own head if you think about it. Yeah. Well, and you know, orgasms are powerful, right? So why are you not having other people's minor pathetic? Stop whining laughing at that. No, but really, orgasms are powerful, right? They can reduce your blood pressure. They can improve your heart rate. They can make you feel sleepy. You're super healthy. And so they're so great for you. Like, there could we use them for pain control? Like, you know, could you use them for other reasons? Absolutely. And so I think people don't realize also that there's some people who all they can get in orgasms from is themselves. They don't have a partner or they can't get one. Right. And so now you're taking them and saying, hey, don't do this. Do this wonderful, like, don't have this wonderful experience that makes you feel good because it's bad, right? In your head that it's bad and like, oh, you might turn into this terrible thing for you. But it's like, no, now you've literally taken someone who has nothing like no person, no partner to actually have sex with. And you're saying, don't do this one thing that might actually make you feel good. Yeah. So I guess at the end of the day, modulating your own testosterone levels, your own health and performance, your own vitality, your own psychological, stable environment can be a rather ejaculation. And even if it's self-derived, can range from anywhere between a real toxic thing you're doing too much of and it's not great for you. All the way to like probably for most people like a normal thing that happens and it's just not a big deal. All the way to a very important part of life that can be hugely regulatory experience for you that makes you feel much better than if someone said, just don't do this at all because it's bad. Absolutely. And I think that it's probably more good than bad for most people, right? Because I think it's easy for people to fear longer and say like, this is terrible, this is horrible. But I think most people would say like, yeah, I enjoy exploring myself, I enjoy having orgasms and it feels good and like, it's great. And I use it when I need to. Yeah. I think a lot of times we hear a flight comment sections and stuff get really negative about this. And then you realize talking to those folks that these are precisely the folks who are triggered by an episode of unhealthy relationship to their own orgasms. Yeah. And then not a judgment, it's just reality. We've all been in some weird places and they're coming from the perspective of, I'm in this weird place where I have been. And they sort of just like all of us assume, everyone else is like this too. You know, it's like folks that have had, you know, currently sober folks that have been alcoholics before. They'll tell everyone alcohol is like the worst thing in the world. And for most people it really is a few drinks and they're totally fine. And so it's just not true, but for folks like them, it really is the worst thing in the world. So there's a validity of all perspectives, but not necessarily taking anyone perspective and spreading it to all other people. Yeah. And then you know, I think people also, you know, there is a lot of moral high ground when it comes to sex and self pleasure and people are raised in a certain way. Right. And then you think about it when you're kid and like you are masturbating in your mom walks in or whatever you're like, stop. I look you didn't ever have that right. Well, that's good. I mean, they're like, stop that. Don't do that, you know, like whatever. And you feel embarrassed and you're like, or like little kids will do it. And they don't know, realize what they're doing and then they're present. Like don't do that here or don't do that in front of me or like, so you're immediately told, Oh, this is something that I should be ashamed of. Yeah. On intentional. Can you think that's not a good practice to. I think that there's a way to handle it where you're like, look, this is something that's fine to do. You just do it in the privacy of your own room. You know, we don't want, we don't want other that's something you do with yourself and you enjoy with yourself. And and it's fine for you to do just, you know, you can't do it in the living room. Right. Right. But if mom walks into your own room, she probably is not on a good ethical grounds. Limbasting you for it. You're like, actually, I was exactly in the right. Why are you in my room? Right. She's just flustered. Probably. She's just want to see that. Yeah. I'm going to put it on my god. And then, you know, but it's like, okay, fine. Have that reaction in the moment. But then go back and say, I'm sorry. Like, I didn't mean to have that reaction. Like, I think whatever you're doing was totally fine and normal and natural. I just was nervous. Right. You'll be a human. Like it's okay. You're human in front of your kids. I have two quick stories about that. One is three quick stories. One is I like to harass my dad every now and again because he gets very serious about things. It's super, super smart. But very serious, very conservative Christian conservative. Mm-hmm. And I asked him once I was like, hey, hey, dad, what's okay to do in the bedroom and not okay to do it. The bedroom and not okay to do the bedroom. He's like, oh, I'll see her. He says, like, me sure. Me sure is my Russian name. Anything that you like and the woman likes to is okay. And I was like, my dad. I'm like, I'm like, shut up, shut up. That's as far as I covers that. That was the equivalent of my the talk. I had to start with that talk. But that's a pretty good talk. It's a great talk. Yeah. Super inclusive. But in a very, like, shut up about that. That's all we can talk about. And then another story is, I have a friend who, I don't know how politically correct this is or not. I'm not naming names or anything. That some children start with autorotic behavior very early. And then so. So soothing behavior and her parents literally were just like, hey, you know, this is something for you and your private time. So if you just don't do it around people, you're totally okay. That was the only conversation they ever had about it. She never had a hang up about it. I was like, I heard that story from her and I was like, what an amazing way to deal with that as parents. They just go totally cleaned up on that one. They could have done so much crazy shit. They could have been like, oh, you're too young. Therapy time. Something totally insane. So I thought that was really wonderful. And then one last story. One of my friends. His. Has an adopted son who at the time was 11 and his, he was with his biological. The adopted son's biological mother. Okay. So he came into that relationship, right? And the biological mother, it's just like, you know, like men and women, there's some differences there. And she's a little bit from another culture. And she's like his kids like 11 and 12 and 13. And she's like, talks to my friend and she's like, why is the kid spending so much time in the shower? And she was knocking on the room and be like, hurry up, like wasting water. And my friend had to be like, honey, you got to let him be in there. And she's like, why? He's like, so he told her she's like, really? Yes, do not bring it up to him. It's going to go really. Because you know, the kids in there trying to figure out his house bits work. Mom's knocking on the shavie five minutes. He's like, trauma times. Yeah. So the recommendation of just like let folks explore and treat it as a thing you do in private. You think as a doctor is like a totally fine trajectory to go. I think it's a great trajectory. We should know our bodies and so that we can actually eventually communicate those with a partner. Sure. Sure. And I suppose insufficient shaming would be letting people do it in public and front of other people's view. Like you just weren't shamed enough. Yeah, I mean, she was an nasty talk. You were taught. But that's inappropriate, right? It's just like as if you like chew with your mouth open. Right? You weren't taught like to chew with your like same thing. Like you just weren't taught the thing that this doesn't happen. But then at the same time, are you of the opinion that people on aggregate still sometimes may be being shamed too much for their own sexual behaviors? And is that a problem? What do you think? Absolutely. Absolutely. I think that, you know, I think one, it's like we, like there's so much negativity around self pleasure. Right? So you're not trying to find it go have sex and like have sex with many people as you want now. That's everything I'm clapping for. That's okay. Great. Good job. You're empowered. But like when it comes to like exploring your own body and like trying to figure out what you like or being empowered or whatever, it's like, oh, we don't talk about that. And oh, that's gross or like, you know, whatever. There's a lot of like negativity around it still. Yeah. And no one talks about it, right? Like the conversation that we're having in the conversation that your friend had with their child, like that doesn't happen. The parents don't know how to have the conversation. They don't obviously back in the 70s. It was just mostly shame and nothing else. Yeah. But now I don't think they don't, I don't think they know. I don't think they have the tools, right? So a lot of what happens is a lot of parents don't know that they're not learning this stuff in school, right? They're just learning like here's a condom. Here's consent. Like the banana and the condom. Like they're learning like, I mean, the school has only so much time. Right? They teach all these things. So I get it. Like they can't get into a deep dive. But they are assuming that the kids learn everything we need to do in school. The parents may be they're giving them some condoms or like here protect yourself. Don't have a, you know, don't get, don't get messy. Don't get pregnant. Don't get someone else pregnant. Whatever it is, right? But that's pretty much where the conversation ends. And so a lot of them, they just don't know how to talk about it. Like they didn't get a conversation about it, right? When they were just sure. Yeah, sure. So they're like, what do I say? It's a wonderful, no one's really rushing into that conversation. Right. But realizing like, it's, there's no comfortable conversations. You just have to do it. Right? Like we are the parents. Yeah. Like you have to just have the conversation. Whether you feel awkward or not. Yeah. I mean, do you, you have to teach your kids like what's normal? Yeah. Doc, thank you so much. That was super, super instructive. It's so welcome.

When I built my home gym, I thought it was gonna be perfect. But the truth is, it kinda sucks. My wife and I moved to Michigan just after COVID. It was an matter of fact we bought our house during peak COVID and my wife had to do a fellowship for her medical school stuff in Las Vegas. And so we had to basically take a year of living in Vegas while the house was being kind of finished and finalized here in Michigan. And during that time we built the gym. And because it was COVID times, we were working under a lot of constraints. One of the big constraints was availability of equipment. Like some stuff just didn't even have lead times because the people making it were like dude, we don't know when the hell we're gonna get shipments from that spicy. So the total amount of equipment I could have put in there, some of the best pieces that I wanted simply weren't around. And because I needed to be here and needed to start training at some point, we opted for some shorter lead time equipment. And that means they were good, but maybe not great. The other thing was that because of this big limitation during COVID, I ended up buying equipment that was available and that was decent, but that wasn't remotely ideal. And because during COVID you really couldn't travel around and couldn't try stuff out, a lot of the stuff I had to buy sight unseen. Ideally you want to test out every single piece of equipment before it arrives because it looked pretty in a picture, probably doesn't good thing, but that's not guaranteed. So all that stuff taken together, the fact that we planned and executed on this gym during COVID left me with a few bumps and bruises and machines I look at, like you look at red headed children. Why are you in my family? Is it true that I have to pay for you until you're 18? Couldn't we have the ethics of the medieval times where I could simply drop you off in the market and never see you again. I was looking at some of the machines and I proud of that. No, but have the machines now been sent to the equivalent of orphanages for machines where they get abused and underfed? Yes, probably. All right, folks, the first thing I had to have in the gym that was trying to get a little better is an element for a G-field meat because your boy gets thirsty and salt doesn't just replace his self. We got this little element, rich here, little element situation, elements awesome. They're an amazing sponsor and so I'm just trying to shout them out. And I'll be here by myself every now and again and look, no, tell anybody, but I've been known to poor element all over this fine ass body. I disgusted myself. Let's move on to actual machines that make a difference. All right, so the first replacement I made was I took the Atlantis linear leg press, leg press, hatch spot combo and I replaced it with a Roger squat. Why is my beautiful relationship with Atlantis over? Not even close. Atlantis is still ranked one to the best exercise machines in the world. However, this is a knee problem. So Atlantis sat me down and they were like, Mike, no, that we love you. When I was like, Atlantis, of course, and I kind of went in for the kids. You're too short. And I started to cry. But when I stopped crying an hour and a half later, I realized they were correct. And the problem with me on the linear leg press was that my, I've got the baby legs and my femures and the tibia is the subtly smell. And so I'm only four foot 10 and a half. And so my legs are so short that I ended up not being able to generate tension at the bottom of the machine and taller people can get a ton out of that machine. I couldn't. My wife is even shorter than me. So we were like, this is just the wrong match up. It's a fucking awesome machine. I highly recommend it. But a short Kings and Queens just couldn't deal with it. However, the Roger squat adjustable to every single conceivable human height. And has this beautiful thing where if you put the plates on the top side, like I have illustrated here, you end up having a force curve that's the most difficult at the bottom and the easiest at the top. The Roger squat accommodates every single stance. It is completely safe to do because it has its own rack system. Super comfortable. I don't have to hold the bar behind my back. The Roger squat, like if you don't have one at your gym, you need to do two things. One order a Roger squat. And until unless it arrives and is assembled and people are using it, you need to walk with your head down in shame. That's right. The deep kind of shame that follows you later. The kind of shit that gives you nightmares later. I'm serious. Uh, Roger's electric. You're welcome for that very kind of politically correct recommendation. Alright folks, so I was doing some of behind the neck easy bar extensions, which I really like to have it done them in a dog's age as uh, somewhat say. And so I... Just that. Last scene in the water void movie. And so I was like, you know what? I got a combination I got probed here. One is I want a shoulder press seat because I was doing it on my incline attachment, but that shit has wheels on it. And so I would stand on the incline so that I could get over the incline. And then when I was reaching behind, I ended up pushing back on the incline with getting slide. I need to put a mat down, put a hundred pound weight on the mat. The thing wouldn't slide that it would just tip. It was super fun annoying. So I was like, that I got me an actual shoulder press machine. But before I did that, I considered the other variable. So number one, I need a shoulder press machine or a shoulder press seat. And the other problem is, I'm Jewish and painfully deeply so. And spending money is like cutting my own fingernails off, like right off the bone or whatever. It's terrible. And so I was like, what can I get for like $45? Did just an instantly break? The thing weighs five pounds. And my friend, Mr. Tumin who helped me set it up was like, hey, is this broken? And I was like, no, it looks fine. So he does this and the whole pipe bends of him just leaning on it. And I'm like, yeah, we'll be fine. Here's the thing. As long as I don't die in this, it's awesome. It's got these awesome foot support situations. So when I put the foot support on and I lean back onto this in overhead extension mode, there's no mechanical way. They're those machine collapsing, of course. And killing me, so narrowly or wounding me, that this can be pushed back or get these stabilized. So I'm super excited to use it. I can use the curls. I can use the flaterals. It's super cheap. It was super easy to make. And if you have a garage gym, honestly, you guys. And you have inclined benches and everything. You're looking to buy one more thing just to kind of fill it out. This thing is easy and legitimately, it's like 50 bucks. So I think it's nice. And if you guys see an update video about me, where there's a bunch of actors are pulling metal out of my ass, you know what happened. Folks, there was a brave exercise equipment company that made an arguably unethical experiment on biological animals. They took a shark and they had it breed. The old fashioned way with a pit bull. Now I know what you're thinking. You're asking incredibly important questions. Like, excuse me, Mike, yes, you did they put a female pit bull in heat to swim, because they're adorable. They do the little doggy paddle in a tank in which a properly fed but very horny male shark was swimming. And then by the Lion King type of stuff, or was it a female shark just, woody red just kept shizz up into by a stack cut diesel male pit bull. Hold up, fellas, hold up. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, it was the exact sound he made before he threw them. Bo's just skied up into that dumb ass, but shark was saw a baby. Now at this point, you might be thinking, what am I? The shark's already in mammals. The whole thing's insane. And for what I know about like psychotic trajectories, this would be the fetus that would die like forft steps in the cell division. They would never be able to make an extant living animal. And I say to you, explain that. Case closed. Let's move on to the next machine. And oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. The pit shark is a belt squat. And honestly, it's a belt machine, because you can do rows on it. You're going to max get your stop laughing. You're a gigaling, like, a little girl. You can do stifling a deadlift on here. You can do rows on here. And the belt squat situation is out of control, why? Because this machine is incredibly smooth. It's incredibly just won't look. The mat winning belt squat was a f***ing awesome. I love that machine. But it's intentionally leveraged, higher, so that it's easier at the bottom and harder at the top, exactly like a quit-lifting and athletic lifting should be leveraged. Matt's where Matt when he comes from with his training philosophy, which is a mate. However, for hypertrophy specific purposes, that's a great machine. This one is probably going to nudge it out just a little bit for me personally. And that's because with some modification, because again, I'm three for eight. I need a little bit of a higher positioning. And when I have that, I get maximum tension at the bottom, lift, minimum tension at the top of the lift. I'm able to do two thirds of my reps on the shit. The leg workouts on here are just a total category level difference. They're psychotic, they're amazing. I love this machine. I used it way back in the day at some gym. I remember making a mental note like, I'm a habbly one of them shit. And you know what? Hey girls, hey ladies, if I see your boyfriend and I like his ass, I make a mental note too. And you ain't never getting him back. Next thing I did was I got rid of my old chest press machine. This is one of these machines. I got sight unseen. That chest press machine suffered from, oh, I would say three problems. One, it didn't have a leg power on loader, which means that in order to get into the machine, you had to use your chest. Problem number two, the stretch on the chest was fine, which you had to wiggle into it somehow and really adjust your body to even pop into the machine. You was just annoying. And problem number three, the friction of that machine and the concentric phase on the assent is massive. Then it was also an ass of the eccentric, which means the concentric was pretty hard and the eccentric was kind of easy. Remember taking that machine down for deep stretch for three seconds down there, getting off after a few getting off, I did get off. And then I stopped the set. And then I got out of the machine and I was like, I think really, really, even like, yeah, I feel a little stretch, but it's kind of like just stretching with just using my hand. It wasn't super, super loaded on there. And I was like enough. And I went to the internet. The internet just crazy. I don't know if you heard about it. There's websites on it. You could purchase things on the internet than they arrive in real life. I know it's wild. And I thought, what kind of machine trains chest the best? What kind of machine tears your triceps into whatever rhymes with triceps, but hold on, hold on, you thought I've not had a hold up. What kind of machine makes them the boys moist? Do boys get moist when they get aroused? Yes. Why wouldn't they? And I realized the hoist makes them moist. The hoist chest press machine has unloader for the feet so you can plug into the machine using your legs and really get the right grip. It has a multiple selectorized grip option. And it is such a cataclysmic deep stretch your chest. And it's tons of force down there. It's insanely ergonomic. And I didn't mention one thing. It's smooth, es silk. None of this friction nonsense. The hoist makes them moist for a reason. They're not just delusional. These boys really know what they like in a machine. Smooth, deep stretch. What part of that isn't making you moist at home right now? That's right. You, you with your headphones and it weren't pretending people don't see the arrage and it's look on your faces. You're watching this video. The hoist chest press machine is ginkoted. I love it. It's one of my favorite purchases. I can't believe I can't believe I've been away from it for so long. hoist, hoist, I'm here. I'm here. Everything's safe. This is weird. How many of you have had a recurring fantasy where a tank top wearing hairy Russian man is sitting across from you in the sauna and he's like, hey, you are a shape of cock. You look nice, yes. See now you're living in fantasy. And on my website that can't be mentioned that I also have, you can see those videos. We made a lot of content that day. I still hurt in a way that medicine can't help. However, we do have a sauna. This is our new shit. It's made of the finest northern goods I think. And since I assume this was just assembled in Finland because I'm that stupid. What's a finished sauna? And here's the thing. It doesn't do steam. It doesn't do the dry heat. It does the radiative heat from infrared rays. You know, it's so funny how many white people that are concerned about the microwave poisoning them regularly get in and get blasted by our rays. But whatever, being scientifically literate, I know that those are non-ionizing radiation rays and are totally healthy and fine for you. They're really just like, heat you up. It's really cool. The sauna just takes a little while to heat up. So halfway through my work out, I'll turn it on to a full blast, 150 degrees or whatever. And then back to time I get into it, it feels quite nice. I use the sauna for three things. One is when I finish my workout, I'll like upload all my videos and check off my boxes and the RPA Proctrophy app. And I'll drink my shake and I'll do that in the sauna. And it's actually been shown that like a high amount of heat to peripheral muskilcher may help with recovery and absolutely does not blunt adaptation. So that's actually kind of neat. The other reason I use it is because the sauna has actually been shown to be a pretty robust lens of longevity enhancer. So it can actually help you live longer and be healthier, but that's independent of exercise and on top of exercise. So like five times sunning for roughly 30 minutes per week, if you work up to that, can be like a really awesome health enhancer and since you've been saying your boy has done some steroids back in the day. I try to die any sooner than I have to. So I'm getting the sauna every now and again. It's also pretty good empirically for recovery. Then in a kind that is not like whole plunging, it does not in our fuel hypertrophy. And the third reason I have the sauna is absolutely going out there. Because somebody trying to break in the third reason I have the sauna. That's absolutely the most important. And that is after some kind of leg workout, especially when I'm super lean or whatever kind of workout, as I get shredded cruiser, when I get the sauna for a few minutes afterwards with a pump, I come out and get an hardly in picks and veins everywhere. Let me tell you how this works. I get the vein picks and I put on social media. And people are like, oh my god, Michael, you're so muscular and veinie. It must not be because of your combination of genetics, 25 years of pretty hard training and, you know, constant drug use. It must be because of the digital products you sell in the internet that are also going to make me exactly as muscular and veinie as you. And then I go on the website and I pay you money and I look down to see when I can get these sauna veins. The grand delusion baby, a few people have accused me of drifting on the internet and I can't tell you a disagree, but you can use more harsh words in that total rip off scam artist, piece of shit, all qualify. And the sauna helps me make the illusion of the fact that I actually, a muscular at all. Get yourself a picture five minutes into the sauna. It'll change your good life. Just because I'm changing a lot of stuff in my gym doesn't mean I'm changing everything. A ton of the machines here I really love. The arsenal leg press is the nominal I can't get enough of that machine. Best leg press ever made. The free motion dual cable cross machine. I use all the time. It's one of the most useful machines in the gym. We have the Atlantis 45 degree row set up. Just supported it. It's awesome. The leg curl, the leg extension from prime is amazing. The Smith machine is quite good. I have a dip stand that I really like. Essentially all the machines I didn't rag on, including the power act from arsenal are absolutely awesome. So really the machine was like the gym was 80% of the way to being awesome. We traded off like 15 of the bad percent and got 15 good percent. And now the rest is just 5% enhancing. And honestly, this is one of for me the best gyms I've ever trained at at this point. But I think we can make it a little better still. The last big change that we've made to the gym so far is all the way back there behind me. You'll see that we've installed a few new panels of heating. The gym already had a triple install forced air. So it was three forced air units which did air conditioning and do air conditioning and they also do heating. And the air conditioning is totally fine because I like to train in a little bit of warmer gyms 70 75 degrees something like that especially when I'm leaner or not dying of heat stroke. So during the summer especially because of the tend to train earlier in the day it wasn't a problem. So their conditioning was fully covered. But we did realize that during the winter because it's my sugar and I should have known better, this is a steel building it is insulated but there's only so much that can do. The forced air was at maximum and the gym was cold as it was like 64 63 degrees. There's a big problem with there for two reasons. One a very cold gym means your probability of not warming up well enough and thus injury is higher. I don't know what that at all. The other thing with the cold gym is that you can't get supervaney and surf pump chillis as the technical turn for it. If you can't peek at your pump and see your cock leg veins then why would you even have a gym is a good question. So instantly with with no haste or all make haste whatever that the thing is we made lots of haste and we installed I believe three more units of just heat and that made a humongous difference even in March. And so this next winter that's gonna come around for the gym is gonna be way way better. I do like it nice and warm that has been a big addition. So with the sauna and the heat stuff and a bunch of the new machines this gym is really really starting to be pretty goddamn good. Let me tell you in the next little segment how we aim to make the gym even better in the future. So where do we take this gym in the future? It's a little bit tough to say because there's all sorts of opportunities, all sorts of potential things to do. The one thing that I'm big on is when you have machines that are very good you don't get rid of them. You keep milking them out like I'm not trying to buy a new machine every other day to replace the ship. No thanks. But we do have some open space and I'm thinking that a few machines could enhance the situation. Might get another rolling machine for the back. Might get some kind of curl machine because we basically have none of that situation. Might get a few more specialty bars. But other than that for now it's looking pretty damn good and we might get some kind of universal machine. There's some really cool stuff I've seen in the internet where it's a machine that can do a bunch of different stuff. We might get one of those just to test that out to try it out and see if it can last in this gym. And so really the gym is basically almost all the way to where I really really like it. Now it's just a matter of not so much deleting equipment out because they've got rid of all the machines that we didn't like. It's a matter of another two or three very tastefully chosen machines and the way you know you need a gym machine. This is a really big deal. Is constantly in your design of your workouts. You're like oh man I wish I had this machine. It keeps popping up. You don't ever want to get a machine that you're like oh this would be nice to use for a mesocycle and then you never use it again or it's like ma I had a pull over machine from prime which I think is a great piece. But it was a little bit too much of a wide king for it so it's kind of weird to fit in there. And also it wasn't the biggest stretch in the back in the machine that could possibly be and I just almost never used it so I had to get rid of it I donated away because it was basically I didn't buy it on a whim but close. I was like oh I need one of those. You need your really need one of those. Turns out with cable situations, with free with situations I had all the single arm extension stuff and single arm pulling for lats that I really needed. So the big take home here is when you're building your own gym to be at a home gym, a garage gym, even your actual gym that for for clients and customers to come through. Really think who that first grouping of machines. Core high quality machines with tons of uses Smith machines free motion machines power act things that tons of people use to get a lot of use out of in their fundamental good quality. The next layer of machines is extra stuff, chest press machines and row machines and all that stuff basics that you needed to gym. They don't do a lot of stuff but what they do they do really well. And you have one ideally you have wanted to test it all these machines with your own body. A trade shows, expose. You can even take a flight out to headquarters or to showrooms for most equipment manufacturers or just go to gyms across the country or across your state or city region and try a bunch of different machines and have a very intricate list of which ones you like, which ones you don't, why, etc. Once you have that core list, my best recommendation after is keep a couple of places free and if you see machines that are really checking the boxes for you, you fill them in. Don't try to rush to full-age them completely with every single place stock with machines. So you're going to do this stuff like I did and have 90% 80% machines that are awesome and then 10% or 20% of machines that you're like, why exactly did I pay money for this? And that, why exactly did I pay money for this to a man of Jewish ethnicity? Some of the most painful things you could live with at all times. And those costs I paid for the machines even though they've been replaced and given away, I'll never live that down. And if you guys need help living down, terrible choices, well, this is the wrong channel for that because here we really embrace our terrible choices and cry about them. Folks, that is the gym update. So $250,000 gym, now what a couple extra thousands poured in and it's better and so my big take for this for you guys is the following. If you're putting together a gym, make sure the basics are there and they're awesome machines that you've used before. And then slowly over time, keep a budget for acquiring some new things and I'll say extra bars and attachments go a really long way for a really low price. Get some of that, get some extra benches and all of a sudden your gym is starting to look really awesome. Is my gym the best gym in the world? Yes, but that's only because I train here and I'm amazing. Is it the best gym in a technical level? No, but it's like an old girl friend. You know, love her anymore, maybe you never did, but she's there and some of to watch TV with, I guess. See you guys next time.

I'm going to be a little bit more fun. I'm going to be a little bit more fun. I think I talked to my Kiffera sauce turtis. And I have a gym. And it's in my home. And it's amazing. And it's finally finished. Check it out. I wanted a home gym for a few reasons. One, the number one reason is I really like my work at RP. I like making videos for you guys. I love designing the RP. I purchased the app and the RP diet codech app and making all the changes to them. I do a lot of work and I just want to do more work. I'm more alcoholic. It's a problem. Anytime I have to drive to a gym 20 minutes there and back, the nearest gym to me is about 20, 25 minutes away. That's every day. And I do six workouts a week at least sometimes two days. That is every day, 45 minutes to an hour of driving. I would love to save that time and work more so that I want to just be on my own property, walk 50 feet outside my house and boom, have a gym. When I built this gym, I wanted it to be good enough to have close to optimal workouts for myself and for my wife. This is a 25 hundred square foot facility, which is just not that big. I know it looks big in the thumbnail. Thanks God the video guy. It's not a huge gym, but it has every foundational machine and employment and freeway that we need and I legitimately have the best workouts I've had anywhere right here in this gym. But also, it has curated by Scott the video guy and Scott the video guy is lighting slash electrician friend. Mr. Jared, fattening the king of good gym lighting himself, the lighting here has been specifically installed to get you the best possible look and the quote Scott video guy. After a workout he had here is that I don't really look like this in real life. This is all fake. So definitely love the gym for that. I can have my machines rigged and set up. I'll show you guys in a bit some of the wacky setups I have. And nobody changes it. Nobody yells at me. I can train shirt whilst I can train pantsless between sets of shake my cock around. And it's typical things everyone does at the gym, but for the law and gym policy that will let you do that at 4pm. At my gym you can rub your cock all over all the machines. I can use chalk. I can put on any music I like and that's jackpot. It's so hard to beat. Enough like let's see some cool stuff. Free motion machine costs about a trillion dollars. Once you have one, never want to give it up. Much like a Lamborghini is a matter of fact. So this thing obviously it moves up and down. These levers I can actually do it. Can scale all the way up and down. They can go super sky high. They can arc in and out. This allows you to use almost any cable movement from any angle. I do curls on this. I do free motion lateral raises. I do wrist curls. I can do rowing on here. It's an awesome machine. If you have a home gym and you have some money light around, you've got how much just for $67,000. Something absurd. It really is worth its weight in gold. Not literal gold because that would be like billions of dollars. It's an awesome machine and I love it and love having it around. Kind of one of the center pieces of the gym is this whole multi-point rig here. You got pull down situation. You got cable crossover situation and two independent selectorized. You can move these things around. So we have this whole situation going on here. And you have a rowing situation here. I also rig my own row here with this heavier stack. This is kind of one of those universal machines here. We got pull-ups here if you want to do them. It just does a lot of the main stuff. Anything I do with cables pretty much. That's not free motion. I do it on here. Works super well. The Atlantis lateral raise. Superior dominant. Amazing. Every minute of it. Excellent selectorized stuff. We filmed entire series in this machine before. I had to have it. And interestingly enough because we put it behind this whole setup, it kind of looks like it's connected everything. Ah, tricks. All right. Obviously, adjustable bench. I have two of these. It goes flat. It goes in-cline. This is a great bench because this thing moves as well. It goes up and down. And what I use this for will of course, a dumbbell set. And I have everything all the way from five to what is it? A hundred pounds. I don't barely ever mess with that because I use full ramen pauses. So I hardly ever need the heavy dumbbells. We have the whole set. These are awesome. They don't take up a lot of space. It's been a really good purchase. And that's kind of core critical stuff. You have to have an any decent jump. Deadlift on loader. Anytime we do stiff-legged ed lifts, rows, anything like that. Loading the weights is super easy. When you have the unloader, awesome. Anyone to watch do dead lifts here, amazing. This floor is like, I don't even know, like three feet of concrete beneath it or something. And then a rubber, madding above. So you can deadlift on it. No big deal. There's no weird, no deadlift rules at the gym. You can do pretty much anything you want. And of course, the Atlantis, leg press, hacksquat situation. Also adjustable. You guys have probably seen this before in my other videos. Worth its weight at gold. Amazing. And it's just really great to have this much variation. I have a lot of other leg machines. You will note by the end of this video that I have very many leg machines because legs are important to train. Pendulum squat works just fine. Next. The winning strength, mat, winning. Belt squat. Amazing belt squat. I love the leverages. I love how smooth it is. I love the adjustments. My life is a short queen and I'm of course, short king. And we have to put a lot of pads on here in order to make the leverages better. We can actually do this with a pretty decent range of motion without pads. But if we put it on the pads, we actually get the highest forces at the bottom of the lift. The lowest forces at the top of the lift due to lever arm. And that makes this an even more effective exercise. I didn't, I had this machine for a year before I ever used it. I just something I needed to have. And then I started using it. Oh my God. Slowest centric. Pause squats on this. Miracle. I can't recommend this highly enough. Another adjustable bench. This is flat and incline. If you're at all trusty power rack, you really don't have a gym if you don't have a power rack in my opinion. And just chilling in here, smoking doobies, the transformer bar from Kabuki, strength, Mr. Pristoffin as the man. I love the American flag on here as well. And it's just a great bar. This bar allows you to do low bar, high bar, good mornings. All that other stuff, it's got essentially, I think, 24 ways to reposition the bar with these adjustments. And you can even put the bar, pins, lower or higher. If you have a rack at home and you want instant variety, this bar is an absolutely great investment. And yes, it is expensive, but you get so much out of it, it's totally worth the money in most cases. Rogue, bar, holder, right next to the power rack. Of course, we have a cambered bar. This thing is amazing. We got a few of these straight bars. Good for redundancy and multiple people training at the same time. I think we have three of them. And then a long power rack worthy, easy curl bar, which comes in handy a bunch. We have another easy curl bar somewhere lying around here. That's a shorter variant and a bit more of like a tricep bar. These are all great. If you have a home gym, you don't have a ton of equipment unlike me when I have a ton. Getting bars can be a really cost-effective way to increase variation. And to that end, the next thing I want to show you guys is how to increase variation of ton if you have even one select-rised cable stack. Come walk with me real quick. My friend built me a custom bar hangout area, cable attachment, hangout area. This is great because I have a ton of attachments. If you have a limited space, which technically I do a 20-hour square feet is not the infinity gym, then if you just have one, even just one select-rised cable attachment, you can buy tons of different bars for it and essentially multiply with every new bar. If you sponsor usually like 20 to 50 bucks, that's another machine essentially that you can use. I can't recommend having more of these anymore at your home gym. As many of these as great is just the return investment is massive. Different grip, different angle, different position, multiply so much variation. You have if you have a limited space, a lot of times you're like, man, it's gonna save you the same stuff all the time. You won't have that problem. If you get a bunch of attachments and hold it, crap, I have a bunch, I'm always collecting more. Hey, in the comments, throw me some links to some attachments. Maybe they blocked the links on YouTube, I don't know. Just at least mention a cool kinds of attachment. I do have all the mad grips and stuff already. I have all kinds of different stuff. My favorite one, wobbly of all of these is this red bar. First of all, why is it red? I have no idea. Which is the advantage here. It looks like a pull down bar. It doesn't rotate. And if I strap into it and it's also a thin handle, when I do pull downs, or when I do any kind of cable rolling, I can't let go of the bar. My group doesn't fatigue at all, immense back workouts. Arsenal leg press. So far as I can tell, that's leg press in the industry. And we have the pads here already down. These are precisely the pads I use when I leg press. It's got an adjustable plate, even, or adjustable seat. Should be all the way to the bottom for almost everyone. And it's just a great machine. And I love having it. This was one of the core things I definitely wanted to do. And it's awesome. Oh, we're still filming. I was just taking a break. In one of my many fold out lifting chairs, this is like a fat person camping chair. Is that politically correct? It's just true. These are great for you doing leg workouts. And we just can't stand up anymore. Maybe you don't want to lay down just yet. Sit on the chair, scroll on your phone. It's great stuff. Two things to show you here. One is the prime leg extension, which is a great leg extension. allows you to accentuate the eccentric, and especially the deep stretch. I think it's great. I barely ever use it, because I barely ever do leg extensions. But people who come and train for other reasons here at the gym, they love this machine. And number two, one of the two, speaker systems that Scott the video guy set up himself, because we boom it out here, baby. It's so smooth. I think I mostly train in silence. But every now and again, I need that real extra motivation, inspiration, that drive, that thing comes in handy. Atlantis, row, chest supported row. I just got this recently. They put a bunch of handles on it that I didn't like. So I had my friends saw them off, put some tape over it. It's actually now back to being the best chest supported row ever used. I love it. And I actually used it in a really weird rigged way before. So I have to, for the first time ever, yet to use this new setup after I saw it off all the handles I hated. And I can't wait because I know for a fact that even the way I was ringing early was already great. Being able to really grab it is gonna be amazing. Prime, seated leg curl, allows you to accentuate the stretch. Best seated leg curl of business fries I'm concerned. So I had to have it. And here it is, I use it all the time. I think it's great. Free motion, lying leg curl works totally great. Unfortunately, I want more stretch at the bottom than it gives me. So I have to put all these things. What I do when I actually do it is they take all this stuff. I move it down so that it's all the way down at the edge here. Cover it with this so I'm nice and comfy. Get in and do some leg curls. And then what it lets me do is because I'm propped up higher and allows me to get a real deep stretch in the hamstrings. That's the downside of this machine it needs to be rigged. The upside is it's incredibly smooth and it's very loadable. I have a gym pin on there for extra weight because I have my hamstrings for finally strong enough that I've stacked this machine. Yay, science, and by science I need to find a college. Two things, first of all, this is a chalk stand with chalk in it. It is a resin to the gym and always will be. That's the first thing. The second thing is any gyms that don't allow chalk are not real gyms. Sissy squat machine, cheap I bought it. It exists. Prime seated row, my all time favorite back machine and I have to hone it. I love love love this machine. As a matter of fact, after filming this video I have a back workout schedule. I'm gonna be on it. I can't wait. Dip stand, this is a very good dip stand because it's ultra stable has platforms for short kings like myself. And then it has a huge angle to it so that you can grab exactly where fits your body best. A lot of dip stations are positioned totally in parallel and then it's kind of like if you're a little wider or narrower than the average person, it feels all fucked up. So this is great. Believe it or not, it took me a bit to find this on the internet. They just don't really make these things anymore. Not a less impact chest press. Not in love with it. I don't hate it. I can stack it for sets of 20. Cool humble brag. Weird flag, stock to Mike. The chair doesn't go low enough and I'm 5 foot 6. So think of that. They didn't test this on anyone. But it works decently well. The prime pull over machine. It's a very good machine. I'm a little too wide for it. Believe it or not. So it feels weird to squeeze into but the force curve and everything is excellent. I actually have yet to use this machine in any mess of cycle since I got it. And I got it late. It's only been here for about nine months, long enough to father a child with. But I haven't bothered any children with it. Just haven't used it yet. But I will one day, who won't I use. Not a less hack squat. It's just good. It's really good. But I am a member of the Royal Family and undersized thus I am a short king. And I need a short king adjustment, which means I got some mats here. And with those, it makes everything right, it's right. The Atlantis incline chest press. Excellent machine. I love the fact that it has an unloader so you can get really deep. And then if you get pinned down there, you can push your defeat and get it out. Lovely machine. Excellent rounds out the gym really well. If you're curious about the ins and outs of this machine, we have a whole separate video discussing all of its merits. And you can find that wherever Scott's video give you your eye links. Assisted dip and pull up machine. I love this thing. It's really good. It even has the swivel handles for narrow kings and wider kings. Plenty of different hands selections here. It's really good. And it just works. And it assisted pull up is something that doesn't even exist at most gyms. It is just an amazing thing. And before you ask, how's the surface that I pull down, try it. It is this myth machine, guys, you know, I have to have one. This one's great. It is relatively smooth. The only demaret here is that it seems to get easier at the bottom and harder at the top, which is the opposite of what you want for hypertrophy. But generally the stimulus to fatigue ratio on this is so good. It's still very good, even though it has that flaw. You guys may be asking yourself a very large of a question. What the hell's with this dangly duct tape bullshit? Yes, it is duct tape. You got duct tape handles. And these duct tape things, why? Well, let me show what a high bar squat looks like right now. I got two big to do proper high bar squats. And whatever bodybuilder you see is bigger than me that can still high bar amazing. Their flexibility, where do I find their cock to suck on? It's my reality folks. So I made the stuck tape situation so that I could do this. And this. And I also realized at some point that sometimes I can't rack if it's a lot of weight, this mechanism doesn't work. So what I'll do if I have over 400 pounds is after I do my last rep, I get out of here. This, I put in front. So if I pull down it racks it's super easy. This is peak ghetto engineering, and I'm all here for it, the Dildo cover. It exists in my gym because my wife and I have some very close friends that live close by. And they use our gym. And one of the friends who shall continue to always go unnamed us. This is a heinous crime. We're admitting them too. Not even a gender there. They wanted to have this because it made them more comfortable with the squat. Ah, I'd throw it down if it wasn't a piece of equipment that someone paid money for. Do you ever come over and you see this? That ain't me. I don't stand for the shit. Let me tell you guys about the RP high-perrophy app. With over 28 preset programs already in the app, you can choose to make your own. You can modify an existing program, or you can just run the programs exactly as they were written by eight personal. This app programs everything for you. Actress sizes weights sets reps frequency, the whole thing. After every single workout, and every single week, the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now, you're pretty interested in the app. Download the RP high-perrophy app today. The mirrors in this gym are actually these really dope mirrors that are on wheels and you can move them around. And I don't want to touch it too much, but it's actually a film. It's not a mirror. So it's super light. I can lift it with one hand. Anytime you need to light be doing rows, but you want to see like your anal cavity while you're doing them. Easy mirror set up, you just move it to wherever you need to. This is great for posing shots. You can roll the mirror to anywhere. They are like at least 20 places in this gym that have legendary downlighting. With moving the mirrors, you can catch them anywhere you want. Of course, this isn't one of them because I look better if I was in one row. And of course, a lane in the middle of the gym, that I can lunge. I mean, how are you supposed to do walking lunges if there's no lane? So when we design the layout of this gym from day one, we knew that it was gonna have a lane. And the best part of the lane is that it ends at the exit to the gym. Let me show you guys this. If you're ever lunging and you're at the weight and you're like, I'm just done with the shit. No worries. You lunge yourself all the way to the garage door. Make it to the outside. You can kindly leave and never return. What does this gym look like from the outside? Well, just a normal building, I guess. And I think some of the neighbors thought we had a grow house here at the beginning and they called the authorities on us and I was like, look, I consume marijuana. I don't produce it. That's nonsense. They make it at the store. Or whatever, as far as I know. In any case, guys, thanks for much for tuning in. Hopefully the gym tour wasn't a gigantic disappointment as is the rest of my life. If I can reflect on it, the gym building process was really pretty good. Most of the machines I'm really happy with, I do fault myself for one thing. I wish I had tried out and handpicked every single machine that was in there. I'm mostly happy with them. Some I had to sell and some extra I had to buy, but really if you're gonna build a home gym, don't just look at catalog, pictures, and assume that machine is gonna look nice, even if the specs line up, just using the machine or tell you a lot, problem is using new machines as tough because not all the gyms have them, but it's worth a little bit of time thinking about at the front end. I had wished I had done that. You won't make the same mistake as you learn from mine mistakes. Anyway, all right, time to go work on another Lambo purchase. These homies.

You sure? Yeah. Okay. I already love it. Jerry, don't be me on this on the channel. I'm Dr. Mike. This is Mr. Jared Feather, I-I-F-E-D-Pro. And today, I'm going to describe my program for the comeback after I have had Reconstructive surgery to improve my facial attractiveness. No, no, no. That's still in the future. The elephant fat injections into my cock definitely have taken hold. It is rendered my cock both in sense, eight, and useless. But boys at large, and that's all it matters. They shouldn't have. That's what they claim, but I can't feel anything. And I mean, emotionally, not just physically. The program is built in the RPAP, which we'll see in the graphics. And it is a six-day program. However, we're only going to demo the first three days, because the next three days are pretty similar, and we're just going to kind of speak to how the situation would be a little different. It is not a six-day week program, because what I do is I train three days on, and then one to two days off. If I didn't get super sore, I'm not super tired. I feel really good. I can take one day off. If I'm feeling pretty beat up, two days heals me up super. If I need an extra recovery day or a little d-load day or something, I throw a third day and everything's great. Then I get back in and do the other three days, and then I cycle back around. So even though this is like a four-week program for microcycle program, it's going to take me like six weeks to get through. And then I d-load and then all of the children of the world are happy in everyone's smiling and differently, which is. Let me go through the program and address not just what I'm doing, but why? So my first day of the program day one is targeting back delts and biceps. I start with pull-ups for three sets. Sometimes weighted, sometimes not. Hard core, full range of motion, raw, calisthenic, whatever else I have to say to justify it, I love pull-ups. What do you think? Yeah. Of course pull-ups, I'm good. You can't really my a-rupped pull-ups because there's just two fatiguing, two centrally demanding. So these are straight sets. And the rep range target is something between five and 15 reps generally. Then we have three sets of pull-downs. For a little bit of variation, usually a different grip. And higher rep range, so 15 to 20 reps, three sets, straight sets again. People say why not just do more pull-ups, then I respond with why not just two pull-downs, and whenever it has a clever response to that, the status quo bias is pretty nuts. But there are good reasons after doing enough heavy pull-ups. Your shoulders and your elbows when your larger king start to feel not so great. It's like saying why don't you get the biggest quads you can just doing sets of five in the squat, like, okay, but your joints won't be going a lot for that ride. So the higher reps allow me to focus more on vertical pull, but more volume into the muscles and muscles is still good. But it's easier on the joints than it's a little lighter and a little bit more fun because of variation. What do you think about it all that you're just a similar experience to how you've been training? Oh absolutely, yeah, especially, I see me as a little different. I'm especially in a little bit more of a recomp, a mess of cycle for you, like the first one backs can probably still be emphasizing certain muscles and de-inphasizing others. Because you're going to probably around maintenance or right above and just recomp from the certain things. So this day probably will have more vertical volume for both days. It's my assumption. This program when you repeat the days. Yes. And then for me it would be a little different. I do more rowing than you usually my rows of first. Yes, this makes sense for what you're doing. Yes, because you're a pretty wide king, but you need more thickness. I'm a pretty thick king and I need more width. I'm not wear accounts just in the back. And so that actually ties into the third exercise, which is the cable flexion row, which I love with a little of sets. Just one set actually. I've switched for the last seven months to doing only one set of rows every time I do a half micro cycle. So two sets of rows per every eight to ten days. And I have seemingly lost no back thickness whatsoever. Yeah, it gets, you know, hitting it kind of with the other shit. For sure. For sure. For sure. I have a lot of depth 20 reps. Sometimes I'll do a little my reps set there where I do like 30 total and just rest a little bit. It saves time and for me here is the reason I'm doing it. One, I need to grow my width more than any degree of my thickness as far as physique balance. And on stage like not having random big muscles isn't as helpful as having the right muscles be doing. And rows are really fatigued, sustainably for me. And so if I can reduce systemic fatigue massively that means I can pour more of my effort into vertical pulling and into shoulders and it abysets and all the other muscles that I need to be done. So for me just one set of rows. For you, if you guys watching at home, if you want to kind of replicate this program do more rows. Next up. So that's done. It's all for back. That is seven total sets for back every half week. That's pretty good. And this is would be something I would start at or second week of a program. You would go out from there and volume after. Then we have shoulders seated dumbbell laterals. A little bit of an inclined. Usually elected to them super arm styles come all the way up and on the ceiling sometimes just halfway up. Ecentral control. And I like to shoot for about 20 ish reps on my first set. And my rep match for three sets after. This is four my rep match. Four sets total three of them I rep match the first one is the straight set. So basically I get 19 reps and then the second set I have to do 19 if I have to take a five to second break. Once or twice between those reps, I'll do it. And then 19 and then 19 again. Why? Because my delts can take a huge beating and they still recover and we have all the layers here in the world not to suggest that if you can still recover, more volume generally grows or muscles more. And my delts are hands down the weakest body part I have. Relatively. Yeah. Farms. Delts. Delts. Delts. And they're big and strong but they're not keenly shaped. They're shaped like they two narrow and so the more delts that I can have and really the more delts than anyone can have the cool their physique looks. Delts are kind of like the outlight of your physique they're they're the silhouette they they set the standard. Do you have enormous delts that are offensive to look at make me ride in jealousy and anger but hurt coping then anger again. And then I think that's the cycle just continues. Then I see if do you because you're genetically gifted delts also need to pound them into a bliving with volume to see their best growth or. So even even for your super genetic delts you have a pretty high MRV and you can yes since I can remember to me honest. I've done probably 15 plus sets per week from my delts. I mean and likely more at the start of my training career as we all do. Maybe as I leaned more toward learning about this stuff properly I was like yeah 15 to 20 sounds about right and then. Especially with my rep matching and things like that I'm getting into like the 25 30 range when I'm at like the peak massing. Messing cycle final mess of cycle like it's it's way up there so like 30 sets yeah it's a for delts per week. And that's really good because I think a lot of people under trained their side delts. I agree especially on a frequency basis especially on a frequency basis one delt day a week is not enough for your side delts which is why I noticed this is likely the only. Delts exercise he will have on the day is my assumption on the day or on the path micro cycle on the day on the day it's the only delt exercise I have but it's for my rep matches because he's going to do more frequency. I guess it's not a delt day yeah the delt day is another day after as well. Lastly I have to hit biceps but in two days you guys will see I hit them in a real and early way. There's still probably a little twinge sore just barely healed and since I hit them in two days anyway I can't mess them up ever since we discovered free motion behind the back curls and lying curls. And decline curls getting biceps as about as easy as getting hamstrings going which means like they'll just get sore for forever and they're growing like crazy but you just I don't need to do biceps for days a week any more since the exercise optimizations. So for cable bicep curls. It's a regular cable not free motion so it's not as homestadically disruptive. And that means I actually just do one set of 30 total for example my reps so that means like I'll do 20 I'll rest all to six I'll rest all to four and that's it. The whole thing takes me like a minute and a half to do it stimulates the biceps just enough to let them grow a little bit and then heal on time for two days for now when I'm day three I hit biceps FRFR what do you think. I'm not a fan of like high levels of intensity techniques super super early on especially like after long recovery phases and stuff. I just use it to save time yeah I modulate with lower total reps so like maybe I'll start with 20 reps or something like that. Yeah and there's your landing more and like the 10 to 15 before the first my rep all first set of 20 later. Because I am still a fan of including high levels of metabolism metabolism a tabloid accumulation deeper into mess of cycle or right cycles yes. All right day two that was all day one day two is chest triceps and forms I start with Smith machine in client presses. I've recently turned the bench around to bench not up and back on my slant but up and forward. And because up and back was causing so much friction with the machine that I was like not having fun. Up and forward I can do much less weight but it's so smooth. I can't wait for you to try it it's so smooth and I touch real high my clavicles and pull my elbows back really far to the Jerry presses going to get a team style. It's phenomenal exercise two sets of that my chest is very sensitive to volume and growth. Then stay in the Smith put the bench down and I do some with machine skull crushers. Three sets the first ones a straight set of about 15 to 20 reps the next two are my right match sets having the same exact reps of the first set but with as many many breaks. As needed and that really fries out my triceps but by triceps could use more frying and my chest is so sensitive that it could use a little bit more but not a ton. So my next exercise is going to be the incline dumbbell press. And that cool thing about the incline dumbbell presses if you have cooked your triceps just before. They have to be the limiting factor because even if your chest is strong enough to take over. If your triceps aren't being are put into position of let's say your dumbbell drifts in. If your triceps are cooked you can't use your packs to save them. If it was a closed system you could push just with your packs and the triceps would auto when you went up to turn on your elbow would track normally. And in dumbbell if you compensate with your packs you just lose the dumbbell this way. So dumbbell work after isolation work for triceps dumbbell pressing work really really really cooks the triceps again because they're pre exhausted. And then the major limiting factor. So for me that's really another five step exercise plus a little bit more pack activation a little bit more upper pack. And it seems to work really well for me. Have you ever experienced with that Jerry where you do something it's one way to do it. I've tried it. I just typically went back to the traditional like I probably flip those back around and just do one set of the dumbbell press. Yeah, you know what I mean. Yeah. And then because your your pectial like mine is like negative pretty sore pretty easy pretty fucking big. Yeah. You can really do one to two exercises of chest procession. It's like totally. But I just usually keep them together and then I'll just fuck my choice of soap. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But that's a that's a cool way to do it. Sure. The last thing I have on there and so the incline press is just two sets. Then I have one my a rep set but it's a very long my a rep set 60 total reps for of the free motion. Bar wrist curls. So the free motion you can put in the handles. But if you put the bar set up in, it's actually a super smooth easy rotating bar and I do the risk curls on it. And I do it very very small rest breaks. Probably a 20 RM 25 RM weight. And then I just do 60 total reps. I mean, it makes my forms sore for a few days and tired for multiple days. Because the next time I'll train them is going to be like really train them is going to be on the next on day four, which is again, back delts and biceps. My forms get hit already with that at maintenance for sure, just holding on to bars. I've managed to increase my forms. I's lately. It's been really awesome. But in order to bring some more balance for I physique and start training legs again, which I'm currently basically just not training legs and I will be as we'll see in a second. Just one form day per week works for me or sorry, two per week, one every half week. Over the past several months as I've been training forms, they've actually been getting more sore. I've been getting much better my muscle connection. And so if you think I've noticed with other muscles except years and years ago that when you aren't in tune with your training, you need more work to get the same result. When you're in tune with your training, you can like hook yourself like stiff leg and deadlift for hamstrings. If you don't know how the good technique works, you need four sets to do anything. If you have good technique, two sets later, you can't walk for half a week. Have you ever noticed that with other muscles? Back. Back. I probably last year when we went to Thailand, I met Aaron and everything. Was the first time I decided like, uh, get, I'm going to do a shit little link in partials. I'm going to hook my back and I'm going to treat this training very seriously. I treated that a couple months in Thailand basically like a training camp. And whenever I was like, made myself be excited about my back training, made myself like really in tune with, I'm training back in this exact what I'm doing is going to be fun hard. Yeah, my back was. And then I never really got sore. Did your back get sore? Yeah. Yeah, my nerve really got sore before. Pull up to do it periodically. And what about now? Oh, my god. He gets sore. And so you basically learned how to activate your back after it now. 14 years of experience. Yeah. That's a thing, guys. That's a thing is like, you can think you know it all. To paraphrase net, Nate Diaz, he get down. You can always learn better technique. You can always learn my muscle connection. These things take some times a year as in decades that develop. And then when you do, you're training becomes so efficient. Because the stimulus to fatigue ratio climbs, you don't need as many sets to the job. Kind of goes another thing or was back sets to. That's crazy. Yeah. Because I was always like 20 plus for that. Right. And it worked. But now it works super well. But with fewer sets, you get just more out of every rep. All right. Day three. Day three is a wacky day for folks. I'm going to tell you this right now. It's going to make no goddamn sense, but I can explain. Day three is an ML, ML game and amalgamation of all sorts of muscle groups you think wouldn't go well together. And I get a lot of critiques for the Sun, social media. Because people say, like, what even is this day? Well, you see, you're lost with that. Don't care. Say what? You're sticking with that. With what? Having the legs on that day. Yeah. Doing weird shit. Because here's the situation. I have a two part situation. Three part. One. I haven't trained calves all week. So I have trained calves. Jared, I don't count calves as a part of the leg. Because legs, does this glue, it's hamstrings and quads. Caves that have really functionally involved with those. That training, but can interfere with it. So you got to play it. But it will save. I also have to hit delts and biceps again. Biceps a mean bicep movement over the half micro cycle. And delts, I got to train them often. Like, Jared, wouldn't it be sweet if we got to a point where like every five days if we had delts really hard. We could just take that time to recover. Like, I'm not there yet. To be fully honest. Like. So functionally, if this is about an eight day micro cycle, I've got delts four times. Yeah. Biceps three times basically. Yeah. Two full ones and then two half one. But I also need to train quads and hamstrings and glutes. And I don't have to train them hard and hear as why. My quads and hamstrings, glutes have already been for my. Pite and the rest of my physique enormous. And one cool thing we know from exercise and sports science is that once you've been big in a muscle group getting back to that same size and even it will be beyond does not take much work. All I've been doing for the last eight months, nine months when you see this video is training legs with. Every eight days, I do two workouts for legs, which includes stiff leg and dead lifts with 135, 410. That's not a warm up. That's just all I do. I'll do 60 squats, 410 reps with body weight. And I will do one set of 10. Glute emphasis walking lunges. That's it. That is six total sets for legs, two sets for each muscle group per week. The RIR and all of that is like. Thirty or something. It's just to keep me limber for jiu-jitsu and because if you stop training legs all together your range of motion goes to hell, you start getting hurt all those bad stuff exercises good for you. Luckily my legs have downsized put not much. So that's neat and it means that I won't have to train them much to get them to start challenging my upper body again. For like oh shit, this we need to back off on on this because this is getting a little mary. Here's the day having said all of that. I start out with Atlantis laterals on the machine four sets. One anchor set three my right match sets reps about 20 reps per set. It's 80 repetitions of side dot work. I don't like doing it. I've been quite public about this. I don't even like training belts. Jared does I hate it. But it's good works got to get done. It's just got to get done and the Atlantis machine is awesome. The hatch means it gets done faster and it just force feeds me volume. Next is belt squat calves calves in the belt squat machine. I have an attachment forward at my gym. Awesome calves are going to be three sets. Each one has some higher ups in it. Each one has like two higher up breaks. That's all I need every five days man. Am I calves get cooking? My calves get sore for four days each time I train them. I know you can't relate to that because you don't train your calves in the second I do. They're sore for seven days. That's right for seven days. That's one of the reasons I want to be only people in the fitness industry who think soreness is a huge profound connection, predictably to growth. I will die in that hill unless I'm given incontrovertible evidence to disprove my position. But one of them is every single person you meet with a hugely genetically advanced body part. When they train it, they get incredibly sore. And I can't curious. You every, also everyone who has a body part that doesn't grow just can't get sore or is very, very, you have to put in the volume like crazy or just adapts after two weeks and stop getting sore. I can't get sore. 100% second I started getting sore. Right. My back progress has been insane. Right. Exactly. Exactly. Curious how that works. So for me, Bell squad calves, that's all I need. And then I do lying dumbbell curls on the bench for three sets, anchor set and two my right match sets because they can take the volume. My right match is also easy to do on lying curls. Good moon boon boon boon. Use hold of on your chest for five seconds and go boon boon boon. It just minimizes time requirement. Get you an gnarly pump. Every time I do this, new exercise with my right match system. My biceps gets sore for like two to three days and minimum sometimes four or five. If I did five sets of my Ramach on biceps, I'm pretty sure I wouldn't be able to brush my teeth in next day. And my biceps is growing which is so cool. Just having bigger arms is so cool. I want to just meet Joe Campbell on smoke ten cigarettes kind of cool. You know, have too much cologne on that sort of cool, Jared. Yeah. Yeah. I get it. Next, my last two exercises. Three exercises. But not as many things in there as you would think. Stiff leg a deadlift. Two sets. Big deficit super slow. When I come back, I'm going to try them with no lockout just staying in the bottom half. It hurts. And it's like super as I far because you don't need to come all the way back. I've just been that fatigued. All I need is two sets because stiff leg a deadlift sort of incredibly hyper trophic. Huge stretch mediated hypertrophy and lathe and tension. But also for me, I'm just trying to build my hands up to where they used to be. And this is going to be totally enough. Then I go to belt squats after a short warm up. Two sets, one anchor set, one myra match set. I'm going to start with like 15 reps. But eventually work up to 20. 40 total belt squats with a bunch of rest breaks is like annihilation of my quads. And because I'm just coming back to it, it's just going to be like. I can't really myra match on a belt squats because it just failed. Yeah. I love trying to back to back and back to my circles and I can't do it. Yeah, so you have to let the reps drop off. I can do it, but it's hell on earth. And then I need two sets and I'm sore for five days. Yeah, I can rest 30 seconds and I'll do two reps. Yeah, that's insane. Yeah, that's wild. And lastly, here's the kind of trick. As soon as I finish belt squats for two sets or one set, then amira match set. As soon as I unclip, I grab a barbell or some kind of something to put on my back. And I start doing lunges. It's a one set, but it's myoreps. And about middle of the mesocycle end of the medical cycle, I'm going to work up to about 40 steps. Myoreps, on lunges are profoundly easy because you just stand there. You know, take a few breaths and then keep going. If you're doing like a 20 around load, man, it's just to God damn good. Because you know, Jared, like, if the barbell is comfortable on your back or if it's kind of like one of those bulk area and bags or something, maybe you're wearing a vest, maybe it's just body weight. You like aren't going to rack and then wait around and then do it again. You could take a lot of time. You could just keep stepping. And for me, that's going to cook my quads to completion. It's going to hit my glutes of tongue. Hamstrings already hit quads already hit that leg components from stiff leg and deadlift through bell squats and barbell lunges. That whole thing will probably take about 30 minutes. And so I have about 30 to 40 minutes for the first part with the delts and then calves and then biceps. And then a 30 minutes for the rest of it. Is that a leg day? No. Is it enough to bring my legs back up to what they used to be before I stopped trading them to let my upper body catch up and poor more resources in that? God, yes. And also, you guys might be curious about something. I put bell squat calves between laddorals and curls. Why? Two reasons. One, after a bunch of laddorals, if I go to curls, I got delts are kind of like, hey, idiot, there isn't any work. The other way around also sucks. So it's good to have a break between them because then they're fresh again and now I can really hit my biceps. The other reason is, I don't want insanely super pumped, super fatigued calves to go into my stiff leg and deadlift. Especially with bell squats, especially lunges. So I'm not trying to go to failure because my calves gave out. And so sandwiching the calves between shoulders and biceps chills the shoulders out. Let's the biceps train well. It also chills the calves out for when you do leg stuff later. That's half of a micro cycle. The days will be just like that in the second half after one or two days off. And they'll emphasize some different movements. I'll do some isolation, lat work. I'll do like a lying leg curl instead of a stiff leg. A deadlift. I'll do some scissy squats and maybe some different lunge variations. And so I'm just going to keep running this sort of program probably for months and months. Because this program is intentionally biasing towards my upper back width shoulder size, biceps, triceps size, forearm size, and calf size. And just allowing my legs to come up to standard, which you guys have a check out. So the picture is in editing Scott. We can attach some pictures of what my legs look like at the right before I detrain them. It's kind of absurd. I kind of have to have like a beard. If I full tilted my glutes and hamstrings and quads again back to maximum size, how heavy would I have to be to have an upper body that matches it? 270 or something stupid. Yeah. And like I could get to 270, but I will die from drug abuse on my way up. So I'm good. This, I really like this template. Yeah, there's just full on program design. There's a lot of nuances and things that you and I just were making programs for people. We don't even think about anymore. Yeah. The other things that we've implemented into the program. We understand why they're logical, but we can talk about them. And it's when I'm zooming out from someone's program. First is kind of like a frequency of muscles being hit order. They're being hit because there's smarter ways to do things in a way to do things. Like, yeah, doing full hamstring workouts before you go and try to bent real the next days. Complete the strange things that you clearly didn't see on Mike. So you're going to, you just heard Mike say his emphasis, right? What's the first thing he's training in a week? It's his back. That's his week. That's he's trying to bring up his, his lats or his, his, his, his, Thickness is, his, or no, with, with, with, triumphant. Triumphant is with, so he's doing a lot of vertical pulling and things like that. And that's the main thing he wants to bring up. He knows that's the main thing. He's going to call his dramatic effectiveness of physique outside of his lateral delts, which is the next thing. He's always hitting lateral delts before biceps. So he put the end of his program already logically. And he knew why he wanted to do that, but it wasn't expressed. It's just like, I'm doing this. I understand why I'm making my program. I've known to Billy fucking times. So when you zoom out of his program and you see the way he's structured it. It's pull push legs, which is also awesome because the back muscle it's yours, not interfering with anything for the legs. Like, like, like, like, like, like, don't lift the day of your goal. To put it a break. And after the leg day, you have a rest day or two rest days to recover for the pulling. Yes. So it's just logically that whole pull push legs. There's really intelligent, especially with that extra rest day out of them. Yes. And every time he does that, he's, let's say, the, the, because normally most people would put like pull push legs or push pull legs, whatever, hitting lateral delts and biceps on mostly their pushing and pulling days. Yeah. But you've structured it to where you have that extra rest day. So you've put your leg out of the biceps on your leg days. Yes. Now you have a day of rest between each of those as well. Yes. And you're trying to prioritize them, which is very intelligent. Yes. No overlapping soreness. More recovery time blah blah blah blah. So the entire structure and design of the program is very well thought out. Obviously, you know, Mike's a fucking sports scientist. He could solve the shit. But just so you all understand why he's structured it in that exact way. The frequency at which the muscles are hit and the order in which they're hit. For me as a coach, aligns very, very properly. I would say that's very intelligent. Thank you. Another thing is, that's unusual about this program. You should call out as like, why would I trade my legs after shoulder biceps in the same day? The answer is first of all, priority. I need bigger shoulders and biceps more than any big legs. And your legs, you could train even less than this and still get them back to the world. Yes. And almost everyone could do shoulders and biceps before legs and still get a great like workout. Maybe the opposite is yes, because you're warmed up. Everything's good. Great shoulders and biceps does not sustainably fatigue much. The problem is if you do shoulders and biceps after legs. Really, you can tell yourself you're doing it. But you're so tired. It's just an odd starter. Yeah. I have worked in the past where I did the legs in the am and I would try to lateral biceps in the p.m. Because it was more structured like this. And I wanted to dare rest between all of them, but it was still fucking hard. Yeah. You're cooked. So I would have to do either lateral biceps in the am. Ligs in the p.m. But then it's a whole day of kind of like, that was rough. Yeah. But this, this is definitely a better way out. Yeah. Guys, if you have any questions, comments, concerns, throw them in the, throw them in the comments. And if you guys want to try this exact program, you could easily build it as for the instructions. Maybe we'll even throw it in there as a template to the RP, a purgherfee app. See you guys next time. Bye.

At some point when I would flex my pecs and let go my pecs weren't relaxed. They were doing what's called benign speculations, which means you contract your muscle at a contract, then you relax, then your muscle goes, and then it relaxes. I took nine months off of chest training. I was in my early 20s. This was incredibly painful at the end of this nine months or close the end. I remember looking myself in the mirror and to my physique and crying. I actually started to cry because I built all stuff and then it was gone. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for the RP Strength channel. And today I want to tell you about four of some of the worst injuries that I've ever had in and around the gym and how they affected my training. How they happened and really, really importantly, how you can get all the gains that you've got coming to you while minimizing greatly the risk that you get injured like I did because I've been pretty smart with my training, but I've had times where I wasn't to start with my training. I can't benefit from those in the past because I already got these injuries, but I am benign fitting, benefiting from them now and into the future and you can as well. So let's plug in here and go down all memory lane there and see how many injuries I've had. Well, I'll have made me thought about not doing this thing no more just kidding. I never had an injury, maybe you consider the iron game as they call it, but I've had some pretty gnarly ones. Let's start out with injury number one. This is definitely my most crazy tail. I did this thing where I was training normally and then one of two things happened. I don't know which one of these two got me hurt, but I suspect it's one specifically. So one is I was trying to do some plyos for my chest and for my quads in addition to normal training because you're in early 20s and you're going to make it more jack somehow. So look really explosive movements with lightweight on top of normal training. And at the same time, I went down to a one muscle group every week frequency, the bros split and a little bit after that. I started to get a sensation in my in my pecs. Both sides, there was a little bit of pain kind of right on the outside here. And I also got the same thing in my quads at the same time. I backed off of my quads and that all went away though it took some time. But for my pecs, when I'm happening was I kept training them and at some point when I would flex my pecs and let go, my pecs weren't relaxed. They were doing what's called benign for simulations, which means you contract your muscle and it contracts, then you relax and your muscle goes and then it relaxes. Like they're still like not willful contraction going on afterwards. It feels like something's still squeezing. Like what the hell? In a first I thought like, oh, I'll be okay. I went up, did my usual sets and reps. And on set number two, always happen on set number two, scar tissue or something would give out on one of the presses. It was painful. I could feel like a tearing sensation. And the first time this happens, I was like, yep, tore my pecs. And I never got any bruising. All I got was a pretty decent amount of pain, difficult to even push a tiny little bit on like the edge of a door, very, very drastic pain when moving the pack around, had to train around it, laid off pec training for about two weeks, took another few weeks to ease back in and then everything seemed to be okay. Except I have these benign for the simulations all the time. Anytime I had to contract my pecs, I could feel them ruffling after and I was like, what the hell is going on? I went to rehab, they had no idea it was wrong with me. I went to neurologist, no idea it was wrong with me. This was in the early 2000s. I don't know if anyone knows what the shit is still to this day. But my quads went through this process too. I really backed off of quad volume and my quads stopped doing the articulating and they stopped having this little thing of pain in there and then it all was well. My pecs did not cooperate. I took nine months off of chest training, but I did it better. I did nine months of no upper body training at all. I was in my early 20s. This was incredibly painful at the end of this nine months or close the end. I remember looking myself in the mirror and to my physique and crying, I actually started to cry because I built all stuff and then that was gone. During the time that I wasn't training upper body, I was blasting the shit out of my legs. Some of the best dead lifts ever done. Some of the best walking lunges ever done and the problem is both dead lifts and walking lunges had me contracting my pecs with the dumbbells or something and I actually pulled my pecs during walking lunges. It took me a few months to realize like, wait a minute. Actually, these exercises are still hurting my chest. And I was like, oh my God, what the hell do I do? My shit is broken. Nobody could help. And later on, I got a handle on this issue to some good extent. I'll tell you how in a second. But I had the same experience with my triceps. But I know exactly when I got this experience with my triceps. It was, I was doing barbell rowing, cambered bar rowing, actually. And I had done a ton of volume. Usually I would do like six or eight sets of rows than move into pull downs. Rows are feeling so good. I believe I did 12 sets of 10 to 20 reps on rows. And after that, my triceps, my long head started to do the benign for situations thing and if I pulled too hard it would scar tissue would pop off or whatever it was. It caused a lot of pain for a few weeks as I rehabbed the region. So I realized that what probably got me this weird injury to begin with was acute, a single session, over training for a specific muscle. So taking one muscle very close to failure and all this was to failure training for 15 sets. And I remember I was doing the same thing in chest because I was trying the bros split was such a huge stimulus. Something went awry and I kind of never recovered. Since hurting my chest, what I was able to figure out was that if I warmed up with a few sets of five to eight reps of relatively light dumbbell flies with a slow eccentric in a deep stretch at the bottom, I could then train relatively heavy and very much reduce the probability that it would pull my pack again. But if I did more than two or three weeks of increasingly more difficult pack work, my pack would pull again or one of the other packs would pull again because it was like my body was permanently not able to handle stress like it used to before. One time over training, it was awful. So over time, I actually quit powerlifting pretty much because of this. And I never benched heavy ever again. I went for big incline presses, which were less probability of injury, overhead presses, which are pretty close to zero. I got really good at overhead pressing. And I got into hypertrophy work for packs moderate rep range, just still close to failure, but no sets of five to ten or even five to 15, very hard, bull max using all of your packs like I used to back and powerlifting. And I've never done that since. So this is an injury that's kind of hurt me forever. The tricep thing, I still deal with as well. It's a very well-managed, but what helped me there was instead of pack flies, it was overhead work for the lats and the triceps. So pull over is a various kinds, slow control, to find include those regularly for some reason and help stimulate the area enough and kind of rehabilitative way or something like that, to where it's good to go. And so I don't know how exactly these injuries happened, but what I do know pretty well was every time before they happened, it was a crazy amount of one session volume. Now Jared, father, I see Pro, who's sure I'm currently wearing, he's had friends and clients actually get a rabble my license, a kind of acute decomposition of the muscle from way too many sets in one workout. So what I'll tell you guys this as far as how you can avoid doing it is no one workout is ever going to make a break you. No one workout is ever going to be the difference between gaining a lot and gaining nothing. And accumulated workouts over time, assuming that you are healthy, not hurt, or what's really going to help you be able to drive those gains. And so if you are used to doing four sets of chest, just do five in the next workout. If you're using you doing eight sets of chest, just do nine or ten in the next workout. Don't have a workout with six sets of chest and then do 12 sets of chest all the way to failure. There's probably a very low chance you will get hurt, but it's not zero and it's higher than if you just randomly roll the dice. So yeah, you'll know workouts are fun, but if you want to drive that relative effort, how close to failure, how many drops it's you're doing that totally cool, just make sure your total number of sets is constrained because what I did in these workouts that got me hurt was I just kept going way beyond the muscle being beat to death. That's high got him trouble. That injury is now feeling a lot better, but my triceps never going to be the same again. So in jujitsu, I can't snap people down super hard because if I try to do that very likely my triceps are going to pull. I can never use my chest for maximum pushing strength ever again. My quads have since healed and I've squatted my biggest weights, but not the same for chest and triceps, future pharmacological tears, please cure me, but until then I have to do very, very controlled lifting in those exercises and it kind of sucks. Heavy pull ups are also out because they use the long head, it blows. Next injury number two, I got a herniated disc from doing squats in good mornings in the same workout, but it wasn't the squats in good mornings actually that screwed me over. It was overhead presses, how the hell is that possible? I got really into overhead pressing, it was a very, very good at it. And after this injury, I would become even better at it later. But what I was doing was a lot of standing overhead press with a nicely and like your supposed to. That irritated my sacrily act joint, my aside joint was really inflamed and what tended to really hurt was having a very upright posture when doing squats for example. What tended to make it feel better is if I rotated my pelvis under a little bit, bear down with my abs and did squats that way. And that's the way you're supposed to do them for strength sport. But it turns out that my aside joint was a more inflamed on one side than the other. And I was an idiot. I was getting through some squats in good mornings and I felt like, okay, if I tilt my hips a little sideways, rounding only one part of the hip and not the other, I'm like pain free when I do this movement. Did it felt like a weird shot from the middle of my back down my leg and I was like, Duff, that was strange. And then over the course of the next several hours, I got to a pain level that was debilitating. I couldn't get out of bed. And I couldn't feel if I touched the skin of my hamstring and my glute in one small part in that area. I couldn't feel my skin. I could just feel my finger, but I couldn't feel through my own leg. And I was like, oh, as definitely herniated, something other. God, all the situation done, all the medicine, the only thing that really worked was resting for a while and very limited mobility. And then when I got back into training, I actually rehab the shit like, I don't want to say textbook, but by then I was a PhD student. I did it well. What I did was I did zero back movements that required flexion extension, nothing that loaded the spine. For legs, I started back with high bar squats, but with extra plates under my heels and weightlifting shoes. And I pushed my knees as far over my toes as they would go on state completely weirdly upright. That didn't round my back at all and allowed me to do leg stuff. I actually used a collusion training, so I would take knee reps and wrap around my proximal thigh area so that my quads would fill up with blood and I would do like multiple sets of 10 to 15 reps like that get crazy pumps. And I remember growing lots of muscle during that rehab phase, which started like a week after I got hurt. And then by the time that I was repping three plates again for sets of 10 in that style, I had gotten bigger quads than ever. And then shortly after I actually recorded a video for YouTube, it was 405 for five sets of 10, one of my best squats at the time. Everything was on Kidori. Shortly thereafter I got back into Slitha like a deadlift and good mornings, but with very low weight and literally taking like six to eight weeks to ramp back up to remotely normal weights and with a huge emphasis on stellar technique. So first of all, don't round your back if you're not used to it. Lesson number one, in heavy lifting. Two, don't asymmetrically round your back. You're going to round one side round the other side for the love of God. And three, you can 100% make a full comeback. And now I still can't feel part of my skin on my leg, believe it or not. But I haven't had any reversals or any kind of crazy shit with my lower back since it's actually completely asymptomatic other than that. And so a lot of back injuries will get back basically to 100% but it is critical you guys that you take your ego and you go, I'm saving this ego for big lifts and big jack muscles in six months. That's when I'm going to feed the ego because I really care about my ego. You guys thought that I was going to say kick the ego out the door. No, the ego is important. It's why you lift weights. Let's just be honest Scott, I need to bait on that. No debate. No debate. Just ego. And we put the ego on a timer. It says, we're going to start you off here. But because we care so much about our ego, we're going to do the stuff now we don't want to do, which means very isolated movements, very upright postures, very slow eccentric control with pauses and blood flow occlusion and high reps and all that shit that makes leg training even worse. But after you slowly work up five and ten pounds at a time over months, you're going to realize that you have bigger quads now, bigger whatever muscle that was hurt in the process. And your technique is better. Here my muscle connection is better. You're joints all around your body are better because you haven't been hammering the whole body with heavy weights. And now you're able to work back into strength slowly. Be the strongest you've ever been and the more in the most jacked. So overall as far as raw gains and muscle size, I basically lost nothing through that spinal injury because I was able to be like, okay, okay, okay, I'm clearly not in the position to lift heavy for a while. Let me lean in to very isolated hypertrophy training. And guys, that's a massive unlock. If you can't go heavy, you go high rep with short rest and lots of sets. That, according to all the science we have, makes you at least as jacked is going heavy. And for low versus high volume, going lighter actually will get you even more jacked if the volume is very high. So if you get hurt in a very in any kind of similar way, put your able to do full range of motion for even other muscle groups around that hurt area, lighter, higher up, shorter rest break with very good technique and the very good mind muscle connection, take that opportunity to upgrade your ability to be aware of your body and be a better technician later in training. And the massive muscle gains that are come from that. The alternative is twofold. One, you could just give up and not lift for a while and then just tell guys again that, have been lifting it a while. He's got to ask me what's wrong with why not. What's wrong, right? Yes, me on with my back man, it's my elbow. It's like shoulder. It's like a knee thing. You know, it's my ankle. Yeah, not like in high school. No, not high school. I was a godbro. Yeah. Telling you man, no one's ever run as many touch passes with downs as my received in my track career rugby. So you could do that. Or you can every few weeks try to go heavy again with your normal technique for heavy lifting, get re-injured like a mother for her or irritate the area and then just be back to square one. Those are two shit options. I'll take isolation body building for 500 Alex. It's a jeopardy joke for young people that don't know what jeopardy is. So game that Scott and the in the now that O3 exists, jeopardy is pointless, isn't it? Oh yeah, I mean, I'm going to point less the whole time. But yeah, now it is. It's really not impressive. So just make sure you understand. And this may be one of the more important lessons I have for you guys for today is when you get her, you got to flip the switch. I'm a machine. The machine is malfunctioned. What is logically a good idea for me to do to get the machine back on track in it's due time. Now, in the time I want in the time with which tissue actually takes to heal. Be patient, train hard, high reps and very good technique. Icellate that area away from harm. You'll be back in what looks in retrospect like no time even better than you walked in. Or you can ever really bad time. Injury number three, this one is not so important to lesson or I guess not so intricate to lesson but important nonetheless. So I was training in New York City at 19th Street Jim, which is now known as better some, some other name. It's on 19th Street in New York. There's only one of these gems. And Mr. Nick Shaw and I were training early days when we were personal trainers and we were doing barbell walking lunges and I was doing sets of 10 with 245 pounds. And I took a step and I heard an audible tearing sound and pain on my inner thigh and I was like, oh god damn it, I racked the weight and I was like, try to do a bodyweight lunges like, nope, that's a torn ador in it's shirt. It was bruised up. Nothing crazy but enough to be like, yeah, things came off of me. It was really tough to walk like I remember I was taking the subway a bunch walking up the stairs and the subway took like forever. I said to walk like one leg at a time, sleeping was more difficult because anytime I moved it would hurt. It was a tough few weeks. I rehabbed the injury super well, never paid for it again. I never went all tra heavy and lunges after that because I'd always felt kind of weird. I probably could have but then I realized what I'm about to tell you right now is that going all tra heavy and lunges is kind of pointless. If you can make most of the weight go onto your front leg, under your lead leg, you got a cropped on a bluehead perpetuity anyway with a relatively low loads. So there's no reason to do that. I'll tell you guys this, there are ways of using very heavy weights but with very long steps, slow descents until the knee gently touches the ground and then a little pause at the bottom and a comfortable ascent. When I was doing these, I was yellowing. I was doing the SAMHSA look, which is get something heavy weight in your hands and go. Now it was more a lot of full range of motion. It was like something you would see and be like, well that's really impressive. Two, I mean, 245 pounds. That's two plates and a 10 on each side like walking up and down, lunch-wise with a bar. Like pretty dope. It's got nothing you see usually I guess, right? Like no. And so I was touching my knee to the ground but it was quick and the descent was quick and the stance wasn't as wide because I was falling into that thing of how do I lift the most weight and impress myself with a highest number of reps with a given heavy weight? And I paid for it with an injury and then after that I cleaned up my lunges and my glutes only ever got bigger because I started taking longer steps, sinking slower in, doing slightly higher reps and really shifting my weight to my front foot, which was a trick I only learned like 20 years later when I was training with Jared Feather. If you take all of that into consideration, think the big lesson is this, anytime you are working for physique like you want to be your most jacked and there is an exercise that you could do yellow style like let's go have you in scling and bang or you could do it controlled style. Really the only thing you have to ask is just two questions. One is one of these is going to get me better gains and the answer is no they both work for roughly equivalent gains and two, which one is statistically more likely to get me hurt and it's clanging and banging by a long shot. And so then you end up doing the slower, more controlled reps, not super slow but control and super deep and a big stretch, nothing crazy explosive, not because you think that's going to get you more jacked, it's not yellow lifting, it's really jacked. It's only because you've been hurt before and you're like, I'm good bro. I don't care to be known as that guy who lunges a lot who's also hurt. I do care to be known about that guy that's just cheeked up, chettered out. You know what I'm saying? Peach gang 24-7 just like a dog just glutes. That's what I want. I eat, I want gains. So if you want gains and you have an ego about the shit like you try to fucking like move mega steel, listen all love and respect, I used to do the same thing. Consider going a bit more controlled so that you reduce your probability of injury. So you never have to get hurt. That's absolutely the best thing that can happen as you just never get hurt. But after you get hurt, if you get hurt, then it's going to be like, mm, yeah, okay, time to slow it now. Huge deal guys, huge deal, very, very important to convey. Because if you think about the glory of just like lifting tons of weight outside of a sanction meet, is fickle. The glory of permanently living in a really jacked body, bro, that shit lasts. And remember, that's why you're in the gym to begin with. You want to get super f***ed jacked. If you want to get really strong, you got to train the couple after a strong man. That's a whole different game altogether. But if you think a lot of people get confused just to why they're in the gym, they started in there because they're jacked. They realized they were pretty strong. They just start chasing weights. Technique goes out the window. One torn ad after later, you really rethink some shit. Last injury for you guys, injury number four was I did a whole lot of Brazilian digits to that week. And then I went and did some overhead pressing in a machine, everything felt fine. And then I went to go do one set of upright rows with dumbbells. And I picked up the weight and I did a few reps and all of a sudden it felt like my delt and trap mega contracted by themselves. I was like, what the f***? It was just really weird like searing pain, like burning. And my delt started like moving. But the nine physicians on its own and so did my trap. And I was like, what the f***. Rack the weights. And I was like, this is, this is not good. Pain is raiding down my entire right arm at this point. I'm like, oh shit. So I realized after trying it a few more times over several years, every time I do just dumbbell, dumbbell upright rows, something in here goes, I get crazy nerve pain and I can't do it anymore. This injury was pretty gnarly. You guys will notice that I'm many of you in the channel have already noticed that I lean back when I talk most of the time. I'm actually leaned back. That is because if I lean forward and sit completely vertically, like if you were to take me to the bar to buy me drinks to try to get in my pants, the M. Me. Boys only over 18, but under 25, I want that innocence, right Scott? Like, you know, in his eyes wide when you talk about career and you're like, just drink more. Dr. Mike, oh my goodness, I can't believe it. Was Jimmy your name? You're a star as an as a big. I stayed. Do you want an internship at our P.U.T.? There are ways of getting those. Anyway, if you're a 24 year old with dreams and hopes still, and your name is Jimmy, see you in the comments. I can't sit vertically for too long. It's getting better slowly after like a decade, but if I sit vertically for a while, adjust like completely upright, and especially if I lean over onto a bar, I start to get pain through my right arm. Because some shit on my neck is not zigged once. It's not zagged back quite yet. So, really annoying injury. I was able to go back and train really hard very shortly thereafter, but I can never do dumbbell upright rows again. So far, I'm not trying. Every time I try to go and went, that was really fine. And if you think about it, you're like, my career reasonably educated person, how is it that you do barbell upright rows? Cable upright rows, face poles, dumbbell ladders, but dumbbell upright rows of the thing that just gets you. I have no idea. I have absolutely no idea. And if anyone's really sharp on the injury stuff, sure, I would share a like to know about it. And it's really frustrating to have that happen to you. But at the same time, I'm counting my blessings because as long as I kind of sit lean back most of time, and I don't do dumbbell upright rows, everything is fine. I never got to crazy muscle asymmetries from it. Like, because people get neck injuries and they will have like one of their arms or biceps or something atrophy like relative to the other side. It's really, really wacky. And this one, I suppose is a bit of a somber tone. What do I mean by that? For all the other injuries so far, what I had for you is actionable steps about how you could avoid. Let's go through them really quick just to get a good review. Pack and try some aquatic things. Don't you'll know you're training and training like double your training volume in any one session. It's not worth it. That was the take home. Herni at a disc always maintained good technique. And if you do get hurt, it's really, really, really, really going to work out if you slowly come back in. Instead of trying to be a hero right away or just quitting the entire thing. The addoctor tear technique is number one. Don't just you'll know weight. Instead of you all knowing volume like the first one, going ultra heavy just for the shifts and giggles is not worth it. Have really, really good control, really good eccentric control, really good pauses at the bottom. You probably won't get hurt. The take home points for this one for the trap del nerve neck injury is like, I guess once I knew that dumbbell upright rows were a non-starter and I had loved the exercise for years. I still love the exercise. Once I knew that was off limits, I just worked around it. And once I knew that I couldn't sit upright much, I just worked around it. Now that's a shit lesson because it's like, I didn't really resolve did it. But sometimes your best bet is just to work around the thing and slowly try to work back into it with light weights and low volumes to see if it gets better. And most of the time it will. But I guess the main point for this fourth and final injury I'm talking to you guys about is if you train hard and you do sports, it is almost certain that you are going to get hurt. Now, if you use the RPI Purcharfie app and if you look at our video descriptions of how to do the exercises, you listen to our YouTube chats about how good technique works, your probability of injury is going to be lower, link in description. However, can I tell you, and remember, we never, with you on this channel, now it's all right, take them back. We've, with you all the time, we never lie to you. We're always keeping it in a hundred. Can I tell you that you can get zero risk of injury? No, you lift heavy things, your probability of injury over the course of your career is almost certain. The real question is, if you're smart and training, how bad is your injury, what do you do about it? If you're real smart, your injury probably won't be that bad. Difficult to get an impulse to pick, but possible to get a strain or something in your rotator cuff goes wacky, shit just happens. In your e-will occur. And then your next thing is, how do I deal with it? Are you allowed to get depressed about it? Sure, if there's a girl in your life that likes to give people pick me up, blow jobs after they get hurt, she's great person to have in your text threat. It's got why you left. It's nice girl. She's great. Out here doing God's work. Hey, how are you? I just got off early. You're like, oh man, I'm gonna hurt. She's the kind of, let me come over and massage you. I have oils. You're like, yeah, sweet oils. A saint, like the mother Teresa. Mother Teresa, plus blow jobs. But, you know, I mean, father blow job. They're blow job. Would you leave it in the, if you're injured enough and pissed about it, you're not even in the mood for schlusees. You're like, I don't know. You have to be really injured, I think. I think you're just really hoarding. It's got, haven't been injured in a long time. Guys, before I hurt Scott with my hands and then see if I can give him blow job, just remember, you get hurt. You can be depressed about it. You're entitled to that for a few minutes at least, maybe even a few hours. Think about this. In a few months, there's going to be a version of me that's more jacked, more ripped, and stronger. How do I get there? The answer is, back away from what got you hurt. Do all the other stuff, hard, that isn't at all related to your injury. And then over the next few weeks, very gently slowly with super lightweight, super low volumes, very big range of motion, start rehabbing the area that got you hurt. After a few weeks, start to do some serious trading with a very light moderate volume, low arrest break, very meticulous technique. And then after a few weeks of that, you're going to be able to come back in to relatively normal training and them look, you're promised to yourself that future several months from you, from now you is going to be better. You can try to do the same shit that got you hurt. You can pretend you weren't hurt. How many people get hurt? And they're like, gosh, you had to just have to take more. I'd be poor from for an accession. Don't do that. Stay away from what hurt you. ease back into it, work up over time. You'll be golden. I've been hurt way more times than this. These are just the top four, like most intense, most memorable injuries, nicks and pains, and all the so-called stuff I've had dozens. And I got back. I'm currently sitting right now in front of you near my very best in a few months. I will be almost certainly my very best physique ever at age 41. And the way I did it was some combination of stupidity, learning about it, and then doing better. We're on the same journey. If you guys watch videos like this, you'll probably do a little less stupidity, a little bit more learning about it and be even more jacked. And that's what it's all about. Now go out there. Don't get hurt. Get jacked. I'll see you guys next time.

Folks, Dr. Mike here. I am with Jason Kelsey who is an all-pro football player who played most recently for the Philadelphia Eagles Meanteen with lots of victory and he calls me up and he's like, hey Mike, you're gonna take me through a bodybuilding workout You're gonna shut up about us or here. I am shutting up and doing a bodybuilding Lift your arms up Jason Tom's He tried like these you're not gonna get this nice No, I'm not The played center for 13 years in the NFL. What is the center's job and who does who is he supposed to hate the most on the other side of the field? He's supposed to hate himself the most So achieve excellence. Yes I was a very bad man. Everyone knows Your sole job is to facilitate playmaking for the guys who are actually athletic So my job is depending on whether it's a pass play or run play You know screen whatever is called it's my job to facilitate success for the ball carrier or the quarterback Big push a couple more nice and warmed up Warm-up's are really critical. You want to do a few sets first Everything moving well moving safe Now that you are retired what do you want out of your training? I would like to preserve The joint health and things that I have left to a certain degree I would like to lose weight but also remain big So a big thing is like I like feeling big and I like feeling strong and looking strong and much to wear right now I've lost 30 pounds only. I think I was 266. It's my 266. 266. Do you have a goal in mind for the end state weight if you look in your best feeling your best? I don't have a goal in mind simply because I don't know at what point I'm gonna get so small that I don't like the way of them So that would involve gaining some muscle and losing some fat. Yes Excellent All right, folks, so the workout we have built today is a chest shoulder tricep workout is a sample workout The kind of workout that folks like Jason and Jason himself are gonna try using it maximizes Reliance and range of motion Moderate repetition ranges moderate weights so we don't get crazy hurt and a ton of control at a deep stretch Which makes your joints better off in the long run rather than worse off This is the kind of workout that if you do is gonna sculpt you into an adonis God and instead of people talking to you normally in the street when you pass by So just gonna be offering you a very very sort of things Sexual things even within just mere days of you working out like this with the RPA per triap of course The RP high-perchurperhip app has dozens of pre-me workout templates to help you build a plan faster than any other training software allows Ready click on the link in the description of this video to get started Chest of the sky. Yes Ordress Finish Back war Oh Let me guess you're one of those guys that as soon as the bar slows down one or two reps later it falls on correct Yeah, you know it's surprised people because I'll be like look like it's the easiest way in the world and the moment a strong will it's done Yeah, because you have a higher proportion of fast which muscle fibers in the average person Which is why you could be elite in the NFL it means that your fibers Great of fatigue skyrock. It's really fast as soon as they get some fatigue Right faster fibers and all of the stuff around them means less fast Galerization fewer blood vessels They accumulate metabolites really fast, but they kept dump them off and so Like a lot of times people get surprised when faster shush athletes lift because they're like do this guys leaving like eight reps in the tank like Now that would be eight reps for you because smaller people can grind Yes larger people people that are more fast which more explosive when they get close to failure It looks pretty similar and then they're just done. Yeah, I actually trained endurance athletes before in the weight room And these were nationally ranked 5,000 10,000 meter runners this guy in rack the bar after 10 nine of which are grinder reps You know limit yeah, and he goes That was tough. What's next? Can you imagine in footballs doing that? I'm sure 10 half the guys are dead the other half for coming on in the whole thing One more last round Nice slow control full pause rocket Go go go go back Portus a Beautiful Feel you chest a little bit. I do oh My gosh, technique never broke down. You never got crazy Getistical I'm fighting it good good. Yes. It's a long-term battle How much do you care about how jacked your legs are versus like upper body just on pure vibes pure vibes um I care more aesthetically about my upper body sure, but mentally I typically care more about my lower body strength than my upper body strength and so how much do you care about strength in this new phase of your life? versus just being like looking small Equal yeah, I mean, here's the thing I want to look slow no question about it But I also still like want to be able to squat like a good amount of weight for football vibes I don't it's just mental like I don't know there's some about getting under a bar and being able to squat a bunch of weight Where you just feel good about yourself. Oh, yeah, yeah, you've got this all figured out man. This makes tons of sense I think it is insanely likely for you to be able to put on way more muscle especially in your upper body for sure lower body But like I want to Unless you like it in a word showing your a colo man. Let me take my pants out. Let me show you my closet Okay security Five extra security people for that giant asshole if you travel and you have a Smith machine Even any kind of device you can lean on yeah, this is a tricep exercise that'll cook your ass But it requires no external look so it's an inverted skull crusher. Let me ask you this on this How do you progress these as you get better at them here? We can progress in reps but we can also Progress in Making it more difficult. Yeah, this is way harder. Yep, so if you get up to like sets of 20 on here and it's too easy You go down one now it sets of 15 you work your way over months back up to sets of 20 how many reps go into your head do you think you could do How many I know this height yeah, I think I can do I don't 12 Oh, perfect. We'll stay at this height. But not to brag, but my shit. I go for a negative So I'm actually upside down on one arm Just like I don't want to do that. I don't know yeah, yeah, I don't under your chin a little bit Yeah, more Pain time More man all same day Oh Mean something good is happening Oh shit another one Yeah, come on. Let's go man. We showed up the work today wait for it move Beautiful. Holy cow Like so how many did I do it? I mean count. Oh 15 That was really good. Oh Excellent slow I'm an evening and I'm going to keep going Slow oh shit you got it more now Slow slow deep wait for it Good shit Did I can tell you're pump I Never thought it was packs are like double the size of we got in here and yes, I was staring You're just single to double Yeah a couple show it exercises. How many days a week are you interested in how many days a week do you lift now And with all of your career stuff you have post pro how much are you realistically able to do that? That's the issue so I've tried Multiple different blood. I've been to one few months ago. I was doing six days a week. I thought I was gonna be able to maintain that That's like this is ridiculous. I think the real-estig answer is three to four if if you're interested in any point I would love to work with you in kind of crafting at least an outline of what that could look like To specifically reflect your goals of strong legs jacked upper body because like upper lower pays too much attention to your legs If you're not just trying to get them as jacked as possible You can do less leg training and still get really strong legs and time more upper body training So that visual impact is really like oh this is clearly a man still somehow involved with sport This sounds out. That sounds okay. Yes, very dope. So here's the really good news These workouts for muscle growth Once you're breathing returns to normal you feel decently strong again It's totally fine for your reps every set to come down It's just fatigue people like men I've got 12 in the first one but I've got 10 on the next one and my bad person. I guess independently yes That's nothing to do with you. You didn't wait. Not because of that. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Remember you burned all those bugs when you were five Magnifying last time. God's never forgot about that The good news is for folks like you trying to get your small on these workouts don't have to take forever These are like 45 minute workouts Which we got to like get after I mean you're this is all Very beneficial sure because I will I can spend any long time in the gym We have a phallos are in there start talking that shit. Yes Asked about how they're in prep is going for games. I know what you up to now You're like honestly just like that. I don't know yeah So I'm here. I've no purpose anymore raising kids and coming here to talk to you about what you're doing That's way tougher than football actually raising kids. It is much tougher Because you're doing something for somebody else rather than selfishly yeah trying to eject They ship themselves. It's it's a whole thing Childery I work with Jason Kelsey wisdom from the father all right dad. Let's get back in here Yeah 7 control yeah 8 the child's smoke One more control it control it Yes That's all I got for you on a sexier size man how they are they are freaking full of fluid Pumped beautiful so our next exercise is going to be our last chest and tricep exercise It's gonna tie both of them together. Perfect. It is going to be the deficit push-up and it is very humbling All right, all right, let's do it Music Deficit push-ups shall we go for a fourth yeah your tall guy how tall are you six two Him to choose to you look taller so I'm technically was always thought of a six three combine Six two and five years and I always feel kind of weird saying the half like a view of if I was 6 2 1 half you had been a year six two mother yeah one hundred You're doing the right one or two reps will clean them up rest a little and then we'll get real sets go cut it My triceps are fried. Ah weird. It's like we planned it Look forward come all the way down to only your chest touches the ground Beautiful and in one more Beautiful That's it That was amazing so keep that rigid body Only chest touches the ground keep the elevated for that morning. Oh yeah my coach used to tell me that I'm a good thing what I want you to do is exactly the same thing that you did yes Set to have your thumbs come off of this so it's okay close Your strong line position that you love. Yes replicated I don't know if I'm gonna be able to go all the way down to the floor with my hands further in. I think you will all right Control Nine Deep finish this lock this one out Got it rack that's it 10 pushups. Yeah. How about that? That's a thumbnail in time. I was all pro NFL Anytime you're on the road because you know she gets busy, right? You will be able to get into a hotel Jim and be able to crank out a workout like this and basically take nothing away like you might not have 600 pounds to squat You'll cook yourself while just knowing how to train from shit like today. That would be awesome Does that is a major issue? How do I even get it? 20 pound dumbbell some lady that looks scared of you like I promise I'm safe. I've been on television Not from murder anyway After today you'll be like okay this is the kind of shit that makes people the most jacked Makes their joints the most resilient reduces a problem a bit in jury the most and is the most flexible and a adapt of kind of workout That you can still do on the road because if you're like I know how you rich mouth There's a weird one vacation the coast of France am I right the south of France is VV Scott what the What's the city there that rich people go to? Nice How do you know Hollywood Shit you like wow, I mean I have relatives who owns any if it's not important This is popular this boat we have a boat. It's a yacht you ready breath is back feeling Ish ish yeah take a few more seconds but your chest isn't burning anymore try some start burning other these burning is just Unpummed you know I mean and I can tell the muscles are fatigued at this point just in general beautiful But that's what we want not fatigued because of that They're not recovering from this head then just are we there right now that's it yeah you are gonna do 10 total pushups on this set no matter what we call this the myorut match system So you got 10 the first one the second set I want 10 as well if you can't do 10 rest on your knees with a lockdown arms Without for a few seconds and crank as many more as you need until you get 10 total I'll count for you your only job is to do really good technique Sir it's a family channel don't swear I'm so sorry okay only families watch this One no lockouts stop two thirds of the way out it's supposed to be tough down there you go Deeper look forward if you need to yes four Yes, there you go Slow control Good rest Very good we have eight nine and ten left we left over you don't have to get them all in the next set Let's get in get at least two troll deep Slow Okay, rest a little bit come on one last one left over Good stuff this is true fast twitch athlete here convinced me super deep Finish finish So this is a pretty cool training technique because you essentially set yourself a high bar on the first set And then on the second third whatever number of sets you try to reach that same high bar Yeah, the amount of times you get close to failure really starts to stack up And we've learned that any time muscles get close to failure they grow Instamulous for growth is in the that is the Big hole that's the goal and these are called my or up. Yeah, because I've seen this I've seen it before but I never know what it's so my reps is when you rest just a few seconds between many sets and crank up the number of reps that you're doing It sucks. It's painful. It's bullshit. Yeah, it does work We got six so far. Let's switch to full lockouts this time. Okay, get a nice little break between reps got it You got this let's get at least two good ones before it rust again Good knees you're not gonna get this next one. No, I'm not I like that you still try it. It's very failing. I have two more reps left over. Yeah We'll take a nice long break after that one I imagine your arms don't feel like much anymore. No, I mean no strange in my forearms too. Like every Everything in here is like hey look big forearms are part of a big arm My right arm forearms usually the one that gets smooth. Why would you say that? I right? Oh, you're right. Yeah, of course all the hand-writing we still do in today's digital economy All right one last good one no practice for hand writing troll Lock it Yes, that's it Or just yeah, why not exercise? Yeah, baby. I was really good So when you're in a specific day that you're working out are you typically only doing four Exercises yeah really yeah after four or five exercises? Oh you're a quote on quote training I'm not gonna done because you're too god damn tired and yeah you're moving around but your muscles can't be Stimulated anymore because they can't work hard enough to be stimulate I was gonna make a sex a sex analogy that was gross but nothing came to mind Do you know why nothing came to mind? I was a stun I've never actually ever Was kind of personal Are you curious about more of the kind of stuff that Mr. Jason Kelsey and I talked about that weren't not allowed to show you on the main channel Well good news with a member section that you're gonna click to somewhere here It's gonna have that tons of other extricuties so get over there and hey, and I'll see there You're gonna do super super stable. You're gonna take these and you're gonna I'll go back down to that position Just look at me There is drug testing in the NFL there's not in my life Don't ever come up to me again until you come back and pee red So it's not blood. It's more steroids. All right, so All the way up until almost vertical and then slowly control the part for control is from here to here Yeah, this is the toughest part got it so what you can do is athletic and smooth and then King painful control athletic and smooth painful control got it give me a pretend dumbbells like that Look at that even opposing playback at the same time excellent We are going to just do One set on this you did all your pushing stuff that took a little while The shoulders shoulders are a muscle group that you can train every day because the muscle heals so quickly Yes One set is an asterix by that shit as you would have predicted by now having worked out here Okay, you're gonna do as many as you can until we can't do good technique Then you are just gonna hang out there Readjust your verses until I tell you to do another number of reps you do those We've got a total rep number to fill which I'll decide once we get And the total is what counts after that as soon as you unwatch you're done and you're done for the work out for today. All right cool perfect Slow One good one Jason get your shit together Control control control Rest breathe Feel your shoulder a little oh yeah three reps hit oh let's get to 20 That's 19 let's get to 20 Control control Reheal a little bit 21 Reheal Reheal breathe breathe One last one hit it And then slow slow slow Look at that bells down right in front of you one last bonus round thing I want you to do the thing you guys do at the combine which is when you're reaches far as you can out To get there that you want your hands completely flat like this pinkies up a little bit Right at parallel yeah begin oh my god Get to me sorry the ha you let me know when you had enough that you are on Yeah, for the world to see me sure these pinkies stay elevated. I'll try About your shoulder life about your shoulder life Lift your arms up Jason. I'm Keep trying like keep going Up a little bit left arm is failing up a little bit of a drink Make it not fail Ha cool That is so Folks we're talking about We'll get some real shit going we collab with a lot of people and Some of them were even quite famous people and some people are most people are cool But some people not so much Mr. Jason Kelsey you know what I'm gonna know I got one hell of a certain that good He's like a f**king real ass dude so now you know that and that comes with a doctor might guarantee So when it comes out that he's been to like 50-ditty parties. I do mystery Jason's the man check him out as an social media. He's actually got a YouTube channel. It's getting uh getting ready to blow up podcast Imagine and uh it's cool don't invite me to podcast this final I mean Nah, I'm busy anyway whatever and uh give this guy look he's been into a few football games in his life So if you Google him you could be very impressed to see you next time Only families watch this channel only families watch this channel only families watch this channel only families watch this channel You get paid for the YouTube You know you're right shit. Do I get paid for the YouTube these are free these are company shorts? This is my friend made this shirt. I don't I don't have anything do you have like five bucks I could go lunch today or some shit man Like please were you what we could call popular with a attractive girls your own age? I was never popular with attractive or unattractive girls Doesn't ever pop you with people people's pets move away when I get most of likes it. He likes Like a japonna All right, like extra block or no that oh okay inverted skull crusher Invert skull white A's super starry guy began my him when I mean Max the editor boy it's like the hot girl enters the conversation and everyone's just kind of talking to And her friend like light is will be dead so if you wouldn't mind slide in at bench three inches that way Is her I'm sure you know three inches quite well. Oh the friend is like like you guys want to worry like shot up back Anyway Lindsay what we say So beautiful Very familiar. Yes, there's a whole team of guys guys. They're excited Paynful childhood memories. I was not liens I was back We in favor of kill ants. Oh, it's okay. You're just on camera for the whole world to see and people can judge to see if you're a good person or not She goes to the front and she's like this random guys bothering me. You'll be at home I'm trying to make a better end guy

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization, and I have a cool technique for you to try in the gym. Maybe today, maybe tomorrow, maybe the day after that didn't roll off the tongue. In any case, it is my rep match sets. Some of you may have heard of them. Please help in the comments to describe to people who have questions then. Some have not. What are they? So we're familiar with my reps. And my reps, invented by better gay, faggurally, I think I said that mostly okay. He's from Norway. He's got a funny Norwegian name. It's a form of rest-pause training where you do a set of 10 to 20 repetitions pretty close to failure. You rest for 0, 3 to 5 seconds or something like that. Sometimes even 5 to 10. And then you continue doing a few more little mini sets called my rep sets where you get just 5 to 10 reps and then another 5 to 10 reps, then another 5 to 10 reps, you can do one more of these sets or two or three even four of them. What they do is because you come close to failure on the first set, you can start the next set in a pre-fatee state and get more failure approaches without having to do as many what are called lead in reps. And this is a pretty good way of training in many instances and something I use a bunch. But here's a limitation of my repsets. Typically what's going to happen is you're going to do one of these where you do 10 to 20 sets and then another set of 8 to another set of 6 and another set of 5 and then you're done with little mini breaks in between. And then like that's what you do for the exercise. And that's totally cool but you may need more volume, more stimulus because some muscles particularly ones that are smaller and that's need to be bigger and are very fatigue resistant and hypertrophy resistant that just don't grow much just a few my repsets or four sets of 10 or 12 is just not driving enough disruption and enough growth. If that's the case you can pull a rabbit out of a hat and do my rep match sets and here's what they look like. You do one set straight normal straight set let's say it's going to be something usually like 10 to 20 reps. Whatever reps away from failure you are in your hypertrophy training up your RP hypertrophy up that week. There's three or two or one reps in reserve whatever it is. You just stop there. So let's say it's the first week it's you know two or three reps in reserve. You stop and you get 18 reps set one right down 18 reps right into your rule will track or that right into how many reps you got. You rest a normal amount of time. Two or three minutes whatever check the four factor rest time box. And then you do the next set and you pre-type in advance into your RP hypertrophy up. 18 you're going to get 18 reps. There's a hold on Dr. Mike and nuts. What if I'm too fatigued to get 18 all in one stretch? What if I get 15 and then I'm like at failure or I hit two reps and reserve for sure and I'm like I should stop you should stop. Stop hit your 15 or whatever you can. Stop rest three to five seconds. It's a myor upset now and then finish the set with as many reps as it takes to finish the set. So if you got 15, rest a few seconds and then crank out the last three. First set was 18 straight. The next set is 18. How if you can get there with a straight set and get your failure proximity cool if not you'll need a myor upright break. The next set and the next set and the next set however many myor upright match sets you want to do. You're going to be using myor ups and every set as many break as needed and thus as many many myor ups sets is needed each set to match the first rep number you hit in the first set. So if 18 is the number you hit in the first set the second set 18 reps the third set 18 reps and if you do a fourth or fifth set it's 18 and 18 which means as you do more sets and you get more tired. Each sets first mini set goes from 15 to 13 to 10 to 9 and then the number of mini sets you have to do after to get to 18 or whatever your goal is for the first set that was established then the more of those sets you have to do and the more failure proximity you get. So as you do more and more work sets the number of times you come closer to failure increases as you do more and more work sets. That means that the stimulus that you're driving in becomes incredibly high very fast. Volume is a big deal. Just doing three sets of 18 is going to give you a whole lot of repetitions and that's a really good thing. What does that like? 54 or something like that? Yeah 54 total reps. Doing 54 total reps in any other capacity is going to give you almost the same stimulus but not quite because if you did three sets of 18 and rested so much between all the sets that you went fresh each time and you got 18 18 or if you did let's say oh I don't know five sets of 10 and then a set of four that means you got six failure approaches or in the first one when you did 18 18 18 you got three approaches to failure and approaching failure getting to that last few months or for failure. A button beyond the stimulus you get from just doing all those reps, the volume. You get an extra bit of stimulus just from getting closer to failure. There's something more hypertrophic about that. In a myriad match set in the first set you get one approach to failure. Still seems like the same as any other normal set. In the second set you may get another two approaches to failure. Not just one too so you're already ahead. In the third set you may get three approaches to failure and in the fourth set you may get three or four approaches. That's like more than 10 approaches to failure whereas in the other conditions it was either three approaches to failure if you did 18 18 18. If you did five by 10 and then a four that's only six approaches to failure. The total volume between all three conditions is the same but in the myriad match condition you make the relative effort harder because you are driving close to failure all the damn time especially in the later set. This method of training allows you to first of all need a little bit less time to do all the stuff because you don't have as many sets to rest between many of the myorupsets but also it takes about as difficult of training as you possibly can do and squeezes it into as few sets as you can do short of just doing everything as a myorupset which can get insanely exhausting and here is another thing. In a myorupset if you just do every set myorupset so the first set you do 18 and then four and then three the second set you do another set of three myorupsets you're 60 and five and three the goal is just to do myorups and that can get really overwhelming psychologically because you have to keep trying this kind of no end to slightly just try your hardest go to two hour an hour and I'm like oh my god it's really easy to to slack off as you get more fatigue but in a myorups match that your first set is the only one you really have to psychologically try try in a sense because the second set you already know how many reps totally going to need so all you need to do is push as close as you can to get that number and then you got a little few seconds to rest and go again and if you need two approaches to failure or you need three approaches to failure it kind of doesn't matter it takes the pressure off in a big way. In a certain sense the use of myorupsets is kind of like every set after the first is a little bit of a combination of myorupset and the giant set it's just a total rep number you have to hit and you can only rest a few seconds between many attempts as you go. This is a big deal it is totally point us to do this for muscles that are very big very strong generate a lot of systemic fatigue and require a huge cardiovascular component like with squats and bent rows you will gas stuff back out way before you need that much stimulus if you do this to hamstrings on stiff leg of dead lifts you're going to do three sets and you're never walk again it's overkill for most applications it's just way too much volume and way too much relative effort way too many failure approaches but with muscles like the side delts sometimes calves for some people especially you small calf mother fucker. Rear delts can over train those by-seps for some people form curls for some people and even isolation exercises like tricep pushed down leg extensions sometimes leg curls when you need to cram a crap load of stimulus in and you don't want to take forever to do it. Myra match sets are a great way to go and they also have another bonus that first set is a true straight set which means you can use it to peg your performance to compare from session to session week to week and know if you've hit your maximum recover volume or not because there's a problem if you just do only myra sets last week you got you know 27 total reps on your first set and it took you three a failure approaches this week you got 28 total reps but it took you four failure approaches are you weaker or stronger it's really hard to tell you could be tanking and you could be overextriding it's time to deal with your leg arms still always do more myra sets and if you're not counting them very formally which doesn't make them higher upsets really anymore I mean not constraining yourself to certain rep numbers you're all over the map but an a myra match that that first set acts as your anchor in two ways one it tells you how many reps you're going to have to make for all the other sets total and two it's the really the set that purely measures your objective performance so if this week you got a hundred pounds for 18 reps and next week you got 105 pounds for 18 or 19 reps hey you're not under performing you're going to go feel free to overload another week or another session but if in another week that first set is 110 pounds but I did 14 reps and you've went to failure like okay I'm not I'm under performing now funny enough there's a lot of mental math you can do where you don't know what you sort of similar but the weight is up but the reps are now does that balance out here's a really cool thing the RPI purgifi app link in description by the way I need lambos it actually does that math for you totally internally using an algorithm we call the rep points algorithm and it's top secret but basically it can tell you whether or not you over are under performed and it'll flag you us like yeah this is your doing not doing so well so maybe take a recovery week or even just a recovery session so that rep point system will identify when you're off track and it can do that really really objectively if you do my rep match versus just regular my reps because there's fewer degrees of freedom look if you can't not up and do that first set and hit a little mini PR you're done it's time to deal out at least time to think about it my rep match sets have huge advantages the only thing I'll say is this they are really really a huge amount of stimulus and unless the muscle can take it and unless the systemic fatigue is relatively low I would not recommend to just go and do these because you can get really carried away here's an example if you go and do leg presses and you normally do three or four sets of leg press couple sets of squats in your quads or cooked if you do four sets of my rep match leg presses you can get up to getting like 80 reps on the leg press really fast I did that once not so long ago and I was getting a tour of a strength training facility actually the University of Michigan strength facility and this is big ramp they have there but athletes do like ramp work like run up and down the thing and I could say barely walk up the ramp and I was like oh I did a bad thing and then it was so for like seven days for sure overkill for sure too much damage not enough growth not great news so use this wisely and over the course of a mesocycle you can add in another my rep match set but remember this adding another my rep match set means especially if you go from like two to three sets or three to four you're not adding one set in the traditional way you are adding a set of another three or four approaches to failure within that's in a certain sense like adding another two or three sets so sometimes what I like to do and this is real bonus points advanced level stuff if I have hamstring curls and I do a set of 18 and then a set of my rep match 18 and I get pretty sore and healed just on time next week I might do 18 18 and then like 10 or 12 and that last set is not a minor match set is just a regular straight set and I've been asked this question before because I post my training on social media by the way a doctor my cousin column Instagram if you want to follow me I post a bunch of my actual day-to-day training a few people were like why is it in my right match you do you forget to do the other six repetitions there why is that the 12 and that in 18 and my answer is bro if I do another two failure approaches which is what it would take me to get to 18 from 12 at that rate I would just never recover my hamstrings would be super sore the next time I try to train them half a week later and that would be bad news so something you can do is maybe ease in half of my right match set at a time if that's the case but if you have a really hard-perchryfy resistant muscle they can take a lot of volume like side delts or something start with two my right match sets like one straight set and then a my right match set just two sets and the next week if you're delts same fine at a third one and the next week at a fourth one and cramming a cramplot of volume in actually a pretty short time it turns out and in a way that you can psychologically really compartmentalize and be like I'm locking it in 18 reps come halor high water in a fun needle rest break I can take a rest break and just finish them it works super well I've been using him a ton in my training travel full-bright the manager of our team full-rong group has been using them a ton Jared uses them a ton it works it super super super works it's really effective and for a lot of muscle groups I came from the perspective of like my arms my biceps which I've seen a ton of growth and lately actually using the RPI purge if you have if I may say but for real for real I saw a ton of growth in part because I figured out how to put my muscles in long muscle lengths and I do a lot of curls from behind the back and stuff and not a lot of curling up here but in part because I stopped thinking of just straight sets only because like if I wasn't getting a pump or very much stimulus from five sets of biceps like you know real talk like body buildings the shit and all fuck that I'm not in the gym doing seven sets of fucking curls what and then stand around for two minutes not have a pump I elbows hurt how am I doing this it can be brutal but for my rep match sets each one getting me to 15 or 20 curls unreal pump soreness in my biceps for the first time in years and mega games because it can take a crab load of work condensed the low in crap out of it organized it for you allow you to progress with it it's amazing and if you're using the RPI purge fiat what you do is you type in you just write you know pick your exercise let's say cable curls cable bicep curls and then you pin a note to it and you type in the note my rep match you know 18 18 18 check check check the next week you come in and I'll say cable curl and it'll be like it wants you to do 19 reps all across the board with you know the same weight or something or an increase in weight in the same 18 reps and then you see the note says my rep match you know like ah okay that's why it was striped for God that's why it's all it looks like straight sets but it's really my rep match and you don't need to count the number of match sets that's the best part about my rep match with my rep you need to like cut right down how many my rep breaks you have potentially can be helpful but because you know you need to know how much overload to percent but with my reps all you need to do is write that first rep number down and then 18 is the first rep number for first set and then it's 18 18 18 18 you don't need to write 12 comma three comma whatever you don't have to do that because we all know it's as many as it takes all the way to get and you can say hey listen we don't you water right into now because you want to match performance no because the first set anchors performance and if you underperform on the first set you know your fucked and if you perform well on the first set doesn't matter how the other sets go your body is ready and I've only said your body is ready to three other people then they all ran that's how they do the people that I try to be friends with humans never understand me and my immortality can you relate maybe if you can tell me the comments if you can't tell me the comments you want more nerdy videos we have a whole section ton of extra goodies for just a little bit of your harder money in the members area team for on forum google it join it and I have a map our p hyper trivia but I'll be saying that a lot because it's the real deal folks thank you so much tuning in see you next time

Come on. Come on. Yeah. Go. Oh, oh, oh. That's the plot. The ass. Slow. Slow. Oh. I'm leaving. Oh. Folks, we are here live in a sense. What's live for us isn't it? Thank you. From Orlando, Florida and Iron Religion, Jim, where Iron is never legit. We're all converts now. God bless. And we have two things to say to you. One is this is Mr. Jimmy House. Jimmy's going to be training back. And this motherfucker's strong as hell. You think you're strong? Not. What's your best bedlift? Well, actually just another week, Jen and I developed it together. That's very footage. But I did pull a hundred pounds of cheater deadlift at part of our day on the way. You blew it up. There's a hundred pounds on the left. Draw three. Five out of here. Fuck. Anyway. Jimmy allegedly is drug free. But listen, hot of serious note. Jimmy's going to train back. And when you can hold 700 pounds for reps on back, your grip wheel, not last. Which is why today he will be using the great verse of grips product. Now it used to be the case that verse grips didn't know who we were. ignore all of my pathetic begging for a sponsorship. Now, the Versa Group company, they have ignored all my calls and emails. For me, Versa's are absolutely critical. I'm not a branded partner. They said, fuck you, Mike. But recently, they were like, oh, oh, Dr. Mike. Yeah, yeah, Versa Group. So now we are officially R.P. In Versa Group's intertwined so does he. And we're going to do back. Jimmy's going to crush it. And we're going to tell you all about how Versa Groups are amazing. And there's a lot to tell. So let's get to it. Yes. First up is the Prime Row. You're going to notice that we have the pin setting relatively high. Most of the weight high up a little bit of the weight on pin number two. This is going to give us the ability to get a huge, crazy load of structures like the signs of the glitters, your sizes. Pretty close to optimal. And then the top a nice P-contraction or really feel what I'm. This machine gives that amazing amazing ability to have awesome loaded stretch for that raw stimulus magnitude. And an incredible mind muscle connection with the top. Very rare that an implement belt lets you do both. The Prime Row is kind of superior if you ask me. And I do own what at home and what are your own home gem. So, not all BS. Yes sir. Yes sir. Good. Yes. Good nice and slow. Nice and slow. And chest re-solver. Re-solver. And the rack. That's it. Yeah, there are two cues you're here like. Don't reach over the pad the way you reach over pad. And don't lean off the pad like this. Both of this bullshit. Yeah, okay. You're literally just training the back more. Through more engine motion by doing both of those things. Now with this happening, that just causes everything to squeeze a little bit harder at the top. By doing this? Yeah, this is your leaning back and you're hitting everything. And then you're starting from this position. And so this position, which leads to more of a stretch too. Because you're coming from this fully contractive position. You're not through that full tire engine motion. And most people keep their chest here and like go like this. And stop here because they don't want to round. There's always over the pad. You're literally training for more engine motion. That's completely okay. And you're hitting everything in the back. A row is for the entire back. Yeah, I thought. It's not for talking in the last. It's not for whatever else you hear. It's for hitting the entire back. What is so good about verse grips? Why are they better than straps? Verse grips are made of a material that I'm not sure what it is. And I frankly don't understand. I'm not sufficiently intelligent. I understand material science. And it's just not in my bandwidth. So whatever, magic space, age material. The thing with verse grips is as you wrap them in. All you have to do is apply enough pressure to hold the grip down. Your wrist will snap off before that thing moves. In almost every exercise, verse grips stay super tight. And that means that you can have a huge, huge benefits for your training. You have chest reach over, big chest reach over. Hold. Grab. Yeah, we'll say with straps like to just have straps. I can put my hands in form, still tire out. Yes. This one, even at the fingertips you can still hang on. Praise it. Yeah. Awesome. Remember muscles grow as they get closer to the failure a little bit more. So your best growth occurs close to failure. If your back was five reps away from failure. But you failed with your hands. Then you're really telling yourself, while training with one or two RIR, but it's really six or seven RIR. Because your back is in the five reps, you're just not discovering. You throw on verse grips and all of a sudden, you're getting way more reps of the best, most effective kind of reps, the ones close to failure. That's you, fungus. Mike, do you like to rotate your hands any more so this way at the bottom? I keep them on down. Three options. One neutral the whole time. Two is overhand grip the whole time. Back. And three for me is just whatever feels natural, which a lot of times starts like this and ends up like this. That's like kind of felt to you. For me, it's like a 45 feels really great. So my best preference here is just whatever feels natural. Really okay. Yeah, I felt, I like that one. Yeah, that's what's thing one. Yeah, feels really good. Yeah. Awesome. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Come on. Come on. Yeah. Good. That's what's good. Oh no. Let's go. Oh yeah. I don't do. Daryl. It's good. You should go, though. We're gonna pump already. Yeah. Yeah. Just no day in the drug free life. Anyway, assist a pull-ups. Yeah, let's do it. Comment down below if you want Dr. Mike to do this first ever blood test on the channel. I volunteer. Yeah, yeah. Why would not be quality. I'm so sure. We have assistive plups. These are critical. It is critical, rather, that you do them correctly. You can absolutely just do them as assisted pull-ups in the sense that you just do the pull-up. And help you do more of us. But because of the light of weight, it's a good idea to take advantage of the fact that you can change your technique. Your technique can be more control, especially to get up to the top with a normal explosive pull. Control that a central ultra slow. Get a super big stretch, feel it in the lats, and then come back up and crunch your elbows back and behind you as far as you can. Sets of, oh, 8 to 15 reps here. Let's get to it. So, you stretch these that feet just, and it's that's not real. And then you can do a little fast here. I'm going to slow it. Yeah, perfect. You're trying to basically melt that deep stretch for this one. Yeah, that's it. Last one, come on. All the way, all the way. Oh, it looks good. All the way down, all the way down, all the way down. Hold it. Good, correct. Why or do value this over just as a traditional lap pull down? Oh, try not necessarily valueing it over. It's just variation, variation, variation, variation. Thanks, is it? Yeah. It's more pull up volume. I love this. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, because I mean, I don't think I have a pull-ups. So we begin with the great for your back rod. So we did a row first. And now you're moving on to a secondary vertical pulling exercise. You're pretty fatigued from the rows. So we've kind of done a pull down. I haven't find two, especially for variation purposes. I think this is a little better. I like it more. To you for SFR wise, like if you like lap pull down, tell you, yeah. If you like this, hell, yeah. If you've been doing lap pull down for like three mess of cycles, this might be a good variation. I've done them both in the same session before. It's just really what you feel better, what gives you better pump better mind most connection. I like that. I've never actually done these with the intent of actually like building muscle. It just always been pull up, you know? Yeah, that's cool. That's a great. Good stretch. That is because you have the Versailles grip cinched in. All you have to do is just gently grab them to keep them close. You can have a huge connection with your actual pulling muscles or your shoulders, whatever you're doing. So the mind muscle connection is maximized. And you could work on maximizing your technique. Because when you're on your barely the tips of your fingers, yeah technique, mind muscle, then, then you just try to survive. This allows you to maximize number of effective reps, maximize your technique, and maximize your mind muscle connection. Those things all help you train in a huge, huge, huge way. All right folks, we are going to do interesting high fold of a cable. This machine is quite rare. You won't see it everywhere in the gym. And it kind of combines some of the awesome features of a row, with some of the awesome features of a horizontal fold. Even magical to is like by the canicle to it or whatever, doesn't expose your legs more. It's just a really awesome variation. You do much arose. You do much vertical pulls. That's a lot of variation. It's great. Also, the sometimes something right between the two is like, pretty dope. We want here a quality. This is not an exercise where we heat the weight of fat load. Place our feet in. Big round and back at the bottom. Big stretch, big pause. Slow we center all the way in. And then a nice quick contraction all the way up. You can pull this high if you want with a high bar. We've got a low and close bar so we pull it to the tummy. No wrong answers. Give it a shot. Come on. Two more. One more Jimmy. Yes. Hold for two whole seconds to the bottom and at the top. Hold. Slow release as if you're going to do another one. Rack. Beautiful. Don't be wrong. So if I was going to replicate something like this, I don't normal jam, pull it you put together. You got nothing man. Now let's see one of these machines. I mean text, please you couldn't lean back on a pull down. Probably can have leverage as much weight as in. Correct because you don't have your feet in the wrong position. You can do something with a jar. You ever do that? No, I wasn't. No, not really. Oh, this is a high row. I use a high row. Okay. Yeah, let me say that. Like jar instead of set it. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Mike. Mike. Mike. I use you. You're high. Hi. Hi. Hi. Row. Row. There's machines for this. Bike. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There are absolutely fake versions of Versailles grips for pretty cheap on Amazon. I don't know if it works. Why? Is not what that real ship. Does it cost a little bit extra for the real thing for Versailles grips? Yeah. But Versailles grips last four years. I've ripped straps deadlifting before. I never ripped the Versailles. Now they'll wear out like everything else, but it keeps a long ass time. It's worth every fucking penny. And there's two types of people. People that haven't trained with Versailles grips before. And people that know. Which one of you? Yes. Slow. Slow. Slow. Good. Slow. And crack. But don't like old reversing. Hit it. Big stretch. I guess one more. Hold this one for three whole seconds at the bottom. One, two, three and slow. Rack. Perfect. As one to us. Of course. Of course. For that one, wow, it's crunching. How would I gauge a safe without giving drops at? How do I gauge when it's time to drop? In regards to like how much of the rev I'm completing in the center. If it's essentially 100% of the rev in your confidence, your technique being on video, you're good. That last rep that you're like, this isn't the whole one, that's your last rep until you go and do it the drop. Okay. Same thing for failure calculation. Okay. If it's for sure not a good rep, it's over. You can also try another rep. The deal of okay, this one's going to be good. Two bad reps in a row. Definitely a silver. I like that. You use versus rips. Now what do you think? So in comparison to your traditional strap, the biggest difference that I noticed is I'm not feeling the fatigue in my hands. My forearms, I'm able to carry through, see how it drops at like that. I can literally, if I wanted to just open up my hand like this, I just fully focused on my back. That was probably the set where I noticed the benefit of the most simply because I could literally open my hand and the friction of the versus grip stayed within the bar. So I liked that a lot with the attachment. Crazy. Huge pleasure having you on. Likewise, you got to stay drug free. Do you have any words of wisdom? Let's stay drug free. That's a good one. We're drugged off for you. Two more. Versa grip, stay work. We're not bullshitting you guys. If you buy them and you're upset, I don't know. I don't run the corporate policy. I'm really wrong. Moreally wrong with you. Your proper grip. Our king, you know, went to deal. See you guys next time.

Nicotine suppresses your appetite and causes slight increase in metabolism by a thermogenesis, so it's pretty handy for fat loss phases, how much of the negatives of nicotine are actually the negatives of the delivery vehicle. How much is it actually how you're taking in the nicotine that's bad for you versus the nicotine itself? Hey, folks, Dr. Mike here for the RP Strength YouTube channel, and I have a question for you, is nicotine fat burning energy fuel or is it just death rebranded? Lots of talk about nicotine lately with all these new toothpicks and pouches and gums, but is nicotine a thing that we're supposed to be having or did this anti-smoking campaign tell us it was going to kill us instantly? Scott, there was a Star Wars movie maybe episode where Obi-Wan Kenobi enters into a CD-Dive Bar and a gentleman in Alien offers him deathsticks for purchase and he denies and uses the Jedi mind trick to tell me it doesn't want any deathsticks and then I guess I should go home and rethink his life and he does. Isn't that whole some nice? Good message for the kids. Good message for the kids, deathsticks and as a drug you probably don't want to take, but it's nicotine just with the form of the original deathstick the cigarette. Well first let's go through a little quick history of what the hell is it that the drama people for them to start using these crazy drugs. To back, it was first cultivated in the Americas. 6,000 years ago. When dinosaurs were at no, no, no. Maybe mammoths were at maybe. Weird South American animals were no doubt everywhere. At first it was chewed. It was also smoked in pipes and it was rolled up in leaves and smoked and people got high off of it and noticed some benefits. We'll talk about these benefits in just a little bit. At 1492 as you may remember Columbus sailed the ocean blue and then he brought tobacco back to Europe and there was a shit, oh shit, that was shit, hits. Hell yes and they loved it and the tobacco trade got going and then Europeans loved it and a gentleman named Jean Nicott, we know doubt in France. Popularizes it for rich ass French people and gives us the word Nicotine. Scott isn't that cool? That's sweet. And the number one way they were adjusting the stuff at the time was smoking through clay pipes or snorting the powder they called snuff. That's where the word snuff comes from. It seems so seedy. Snuff just seems like a ubiquitous term for drugs that are bad for you. He's on that snuff again. Anyway, in 1828, chemists of the time finally isolated Nicotine as a molecule by itself and in the 1880 something truly miraculous happened. The Bonzac machine was invented and it made cheap cigarettes. Scott, the greatest invention of the last thousand years. Sounds like it. Is the cigarette manufacturing machine and the first synthetic make a team was actually created in 1893 and at this point in the 19th century and then the early 20th century we get the mass production of cigarettes and cigars. Their quantities boomed their prices approached near zero and we got a whole shitload of people. Well smoking cigarettes and cigars. In the 1960s the US surgeon general came out and was like hey guys smoking cigarettes seems to cause a lot of diseases and that wasn't wrong. In a ton of cancer and that was a bad deal. And with that led to was a bit of a revival or kind of a reticence in different delivery methods. In 1984 Nicotine gum was released in 1991 Nicotine patches were released especially for people to help could smoking and in 1996 we even got a nasal spray and that was kind of the birth of Nicotine replacement therapy. I used to smoke cigarettes for years. I think it's bad for me. Now I'm still trying to consume Nicotine because I'm not trying to quit the shed any time soon but I can't just quit cold turkey because everyone knows quitting cold turkey is a really, really tough. Now in the 21st century with robots and lasers everywhere in 2003 the modern electronic cigarette was finally perfect and Scott. Isn't that great? Not that might be the best invention of all. That definitely is because if you think the cigarette's the best invention I hear you, what about if it's sent emails to your mouth full of Nicotine and we did get that. In 2016 we had the beginning of the US pouch demographic the Nicotine pouch situation and in the 2020s now we're seeing an explosion and it really is a really big cultural thing of toothpicks, lasenges, oral film strips, you name it. If there's a way to get Nicotine in your legs, lots of companies are working on it right now. We've got vape mods, we've got pods, we've got pouches, gums, toothpicks, lasenges, oral films, the whole thing. So that's the story of Nicotine. Now what the hell do people actually get out of Nicotine? Why do people use it? It's not just because it's bad for you and rebel teens, haven't though maybe that's some of it, some of the effect. Nicotine gives you neurostimulation. It is an agonist to your Nicotinec acetylcholine receptors, which means that when they get activated that triggers rapid dopamine and neuropenetroner release. The result is rapid ability to focus a faster reaction time and that feeling of being oh, for lack of a bit of term, dialed in. You know that thing, if you're in the military and you essentially subsist on Zinn Pax, you know exactly what we're talking about. Gotta go out on an op, throw in as many packs of Zinn into every possible thing you can carry and that keeps you aware and alert and really really dialed in for a while, however long you need, I guess. Nicotine also in the neurological research has shown that it repeatedly gives you a decent bump in working memory, which means you can store more information on your brain at any one time and better sustain detention, classic stimulant stuff. This is especially true in sleep to private subjects, so if you haven't slept well and you really need to focus, Nicotine is a big serious helper in that regard. And in an very interesting twist, Nicotine also boosts your mood. Acute doses rapidly raised serotonin and beta endorphin levels and that gives you a little bit of a mild euphoria and a reduced perception of fatigue. So now, if you're fatigued and you need to be doing some stuff like mental work or physical work, instead of feeling like shit and performing like shit, Nicotine is able to make you feel good and perform better, which is a really, really big deal. And Nicotine suppresses your appetite and causes slight increase in metabolism, live third of agenesis, so that's pretty handy for fat loss phases, although once you build a tolerance, the effect gets really small. So this isn't a super, super awesome thing, but compared to a real powerful fat loss drug like Trazapotide, Nicotine doesn't even make the list, but it can enhance some short-term appetite suppression and get you going a little bit more on the calorie burning. And it does cause a fine motor steadiness. So for example, if you take Glenn Buderal, which also gives you a lot of these focus effects for fat loss, it actually gives you traverse. Nicotine gives you steadiness, which is why surgeons and competitive shooters among many other people historically make sure to have some nicotine around. Scott, do you prefer that your surgeon take puffs off of an actual cigarette while digging in your brain? Or do you think he should have like eight zin packets in his mouth? I think the smokes and I said, I'd say it's like a nice flavor, you know? And smell. And just before they succeed with a surgery and like zip up your head, he ashes a little bit into the brain. It's like those whiskey where they prepare the whiskey and then they cover it and like a smokes. Yes. It's like that, but with my brain. Yes, perfect. They're like, how do you feel? You're like, I feel earthy and kind of very in whole in texture and they're like, it worked. Unbelievable. So basically nicotine is a very fast acting kind of 30 minute. Nature's study drug or energy drug that gets you going. Now, here's the big question for today. How much of the negatives of nicotine are actually the negatives of the delivery vehicle? How much is it actually? How you're taking in the nicotine that's bad for you versus the nicotine itself? So first up, we have smoking. We have cigarettes, cigars, pipes, hookah, however you smoke your nicotine in. You get a lot of extra toxins this way. You get carbon monoxide, tar, literal tar, and a fucked up, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons and thousands, literally of other combustion byproducts, the byproducts of actually burning something that get all in your shit and don't do you any favors. What kind of favors do they not do you? Well, massive increases in the incidence from smoking of lung cancer, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, which you do not want and makes it breathing hard forever, cardiovascular disease, peripheral vascular disease, infertility, all these really nasty things. And it looks like 90% or more of the harm of chronic, nicotine is actually driven by combustion. Smoking is the number one reason nicotine is bad for you. The nicotine part is not so great for you. We'll talk about in a little bit, but it's super super, super low key compared to smoking. So I'll tell you one thing for sure you can get out of this video. Do not smoke cigarettes. Just don't do it. It's a really bad way to get nicotine and it fucks you up completely. Now, doesn't make you see more attractive to the opposite sex, but you used to, but nowadays kids don't even smoke anymore. So you'll just be the weird person who smells awful and is dying of lung cancer. Next, we have the second worst way to get nicotine, which is chewing. Get that old dip in brother. Hey Scott, look, can you see the camera? Uh-huh. Hey, Bob. Hey, boy. The dipping is much less bad for you than smoking, but you still get tobacco specific nitrosimines, which are really bad for you. You get heavy metals through dipping. Anytime you have a, um, I guess fermented leaf product in your mouth, it's no good for you. How no good. It causes a bunch of different kinds of oral cancers, lip cancer, which I heard is no fun. She cancer, which is pretty fun, but gets old real quick, and then gum cancer, which is just hilarious until parts of your gums and teeth have to be removed permanently from your mouth. Causes are seeding gums, causes tooth loss, it even causes gastrointestinal cancers call it shit that goes down your mouth. Dipping is a fucking bad idea. Don't do it. It's a bad idea. It's going to fuck you up in a bunch of different ways. It's not as bad at smoking, but let's just get smoking is like really, really, really, really, really bad and just don't do that for sure. Now we're on to one of the lowest tiers of risk vaping, esigs, pod mods, the whole thing. The vaping situation still brings in carbonals, which are not great for you. One of them is, uh, for maldehyde, the other is, uh, a seedling out the hide, which is not great. And ultra fine particles that have been shown recently to do some not good things to your health. Some of the flavoring aldehydes are also quite bad for you. And with this is led to is that now emerging data show more recently that you get endothelial stress, mild, long dysfunction, it's orders of magnitude more safe than smoking and lower carcinogens, but it's still isn't a great thing. So the take home here is that most of the catastrophic stuff that quote unquote nicotine causes is just really caused by smoke or fermented leaves and not nicotine use per say. So that begs the next question with all the clean ways to take it in, pouches, toothpicks and gums, which don't have all these other nasty things associated with them, what's left of how bad nicotine really is for you? And unfortunately is a few things. One is cardiovascular stress, being on nicotine predictably increases your heart rate by like 10 beats per minute, which over the aggregate will shorten your lifespan. It increases your systolic blood pressure, considerably, eight, eight, eight millimeters of mercury, which is a trip, especially chronic heavy nicotine use tends to stiffen arteries. It blunts insulin sensitivity, even without smoke. So very high use of nicotine is not good for you. If you take in even the gums or the pouches with really high strength products, like 6 to 12 milligrams, which Scott have you ever tried one of these like a sash pouches or whatever, zin, sash, yes, I have. Did you take too much and start to throw up? Yeah, I mean, yeah, I didn't throw up, but it was it was gross. Yeah, although when I was a young child, I ate my grandaddies to Becky, and I thought he was eating it, and I threw up everywhere. Fuck. So yeah, that's a classic story. I love it. So if you take six to 12 milligrams in this method through like the pouches, that's a huge dose. You can get localized gum recession, you can get mouth ulcers, and the CDC actually notes that there there's a rising rate of mouth ulcers in teens, which I think is terrible in the end of the world, but teens are also smoking way, way less. So on the aggregate teens are the healthiest they've ever been. This mouth also thing is not a great idea. So try to keep the gums lower and dose, which we'll talk about in just a bit. You get sleep fragmentation. If you take in the coutine in the evening, you delay the onset of rapid eye movement sleep REM sleep, which is one of the most recovering deep kinds of sleep that you can have. That's no good. You definitely can't use nicotine if you are with child and having a baby. So don't do that. And we don't know the long term tail risks of these new pouches and gums. Could be some not really stuff down the end. We're not sure, but it's not like they we've had 20 year epidemiology trials on this. So yeah, nicotine still has downsides noticed. They're way way way smaller than smoking or chewing to backo or any of that stuff. But the last question here is how addictive is nicotine. It turns out the speed of reinforcement matters. Your brain loves addiction when it does something and it gets a great response right away. cigarettes hit the brain in about 10 seconds. Scott, you know that long day of work first draw. That's life right there. Oh sorry, I used the weed smoke one. Sorry, I've never smoked cigarettes. Oh yeah. I feel so good. I just want to be addicted to cigarettes and die of lung cancer. You say to yourself. Gums and pouches take five to 15 minutes. They're substantially less addictive. And patches take hours. And so almost no one gets addicted to patches. People who have never smoked before can get addicted to pouches and to gums, but it's much less likely than getting addicted to cigarettes. If you have smoke before, you might get very easily addicted to pouches and all the other stuff. Genetics and age matter. Some people are just more prone to addiction and others. And if you're younger than about 25 years old, your brain is much more plastic to nicotine receptor operation and your probability of dependence and addiction is much higher. So if you're over 25, you might handle nicotine products just fine. If you're under 25, it's a bigger risk that you get addicted. And of course, in most cases, if you use it chronically and you lose a lot of it, you need more pop to get the same or more nicotine, more gum, more patches to get the same effect out of it. And that can get to the all day every day hitting the vape. Scott, you've been around these new these young vapor kids that just literally hit the vape every second that they're awake. And just keep it in their hand. They just keep it in their hand. It's really intense. If you have vaping your hand at all times, you are 100% addicted to nicotine. There's no other way around. So if you are interested in taking nicotine and if you're cool with hypertension, a rhythmic or your under your under 25 and you still want to take it, I should say just don't take that's probably a good idea. But if you really want to take nicotine, there are practical ways to minimize the harm. Not eliminate it, but minimize. Stick to two to four milligrams gum or the hydroxy pH pouches that are three or six milligrams don't get into the 12 milligram range unless you're really, really experienced and just want to die sooner. Don't do vaping. If you want a vape, don't smoke. Don't smoke. Okay, if you have to take nicotine, vape, but really if you have to take it and don't vape, do the pouches much better, do the gum or the pouches. To toothpicks and the lasenges are totally fine, if you can keep your daily dose modest, which is under 10 milligrams per day for most adults. Many of you will be like, dude, that's not that much. I know we're talking about the safe uses of nicotine, which is just not that much stuff. You can use nicotine about one or two milligrams before some deep work, 15 minutes before you get into deep work, one or two milligrams of caffeine, and you probably should repeat that no sooner than 90 minutes later and ideally multiple hours later. And if you want to do nicotine before your workout, you can, especially if it's strength or power training, two to three milligrams, 20 to 30 minutes beforehand, may actually give you a slightly better workout. Again, the trade-offs, I don't think or worth it, but if they're worth it to you, good to go and stopping nicotine at least two hours before your plan. Bedtime is a really good idea because then it won't scrub your REM sleep notice. nicotine is a much faster active half-life than caffeine. So you can actually have nicotine later in the day as long as it's not two hours before sleep with caffeine. That's how I get to work. You're going to really fuck up your REM sleep. Big time if you get any sleep at all, two hours before. And so what you want out of a daily pattern, ideally, is to take nicotine just a few times through the day, separated by multiple hours. Most people won't do that because most people are taking nicotine are addicted to nicotine. If you can do that, you're going to be feeling very good and very few downsides. Very much try to avoid the every 15 minutes I hit the pan or hit the gum again. That's going to be a bad time in most cases. You might feel great. Health-wise, it's not ideal addiction-wise. It's a really not ideal. If you can, use nicotine for three weeks and then take one week off. It'll recycle all your receptor sensitivities and make it just as powerful again. The other little term that it works pretty well is to do nicotine for five days working week nicotine and then take the weekends off. Scott, how many people do you know that use nicotine don't use it on the weekends? Think of thought, but it's not a thing. Right? They don't really opposite the weekend. Right? Most people can't pull the song. No. Yeah. So I would say like use it for a few weeks, four to six weeks and then take a few weeks off and then come back if that's the insistence. Again, most people won't do that because many, many people just get addicted enough to it and they just keep doing it. If the off-weeks are really tough, you can have a little bit more caffeine. It'll replace some of that stimulant drive for you. Technically speaking, I have to say that if use it with alcohol, the addictive potential rises, most things do with alcohol. So trying not to use nicotine without alcohol, but I think having drinks and cigarettes at the same time as a match made in hell, they're really fun kind of hell you pay for later. Nicotine is also mildly diuretic. So staying on your hydration game is a really really good idea. And if you notice that you kind of need nicotine rather than just want it, what you can do is take the patch and go from 21 milligrams over 24 hours patch to 14 milligrams to 7 milligrams and then drop to zero after four or six weeks. So every two weeks you reduce the patch exposure and then you'll have cured yourself of addiction in most cases. It'll be back to normal so you can just start abusing them the next week like most people do. So here's the thing, will nicotine get you addicted? Yeah, it's very likely. If you can control your use and use very little of it, can it have pretty good benefits without huge downsides? Yeah, I'm not, I'm not your anti-drag educator in 1990 term and I get a lot of you. Nicotine can be used in a way that's very, very safe. I'm completely safe with a very safe. Do most people use it in a way that's not safe. Yeah, most people fucking up because you just want to take more of it all the time. That's just kind of how it works. Now, one thing that won't get you addicted, but we get you incredible gains, is the RP high-perchography app comes with dozens of pre-made programs from two days of training per week all the way up to six days of training with specialized programs included for shoulders, arms, chest, back, legs, abs, and glutes. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. And I'm going to break into the Zin factory jump into a vat of nicotine and just open up every part of my body so that I can be high forever. And if I don't make it, it's been a fun run, but if I do, see you next time for the next video.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization, continuing on with hypertrophy myths number four, one top set, one drop set. I'm sure you've heard that one before. What exactly are we talking about here? So the myth goes, you should train something like this. You do warmups. You warm up, then you hit your one top set, big set, close to failure. Sometimes all out. After that, you hit one drop set on the scarecrow and so for a reason, I'll tell you that a bit. With like a 10 to 30% reduction in load, you get more ups. And then you move on to the next exercise, usually doing like four or five exercises per muscle group just like that, because it's two working sets at a time. So with like a machine-chouse-press example, you do 100% of 10, 150 for six, 200 for four, just warming up, 200 and five pounds for a set of 12, 165 for set of 15, and then you go on to your next exercise and do three or four other chest exercises. Okay, fine, very good. Here's the good news about this kind of method of training, which is one top set, one drop set, switch exercises. You can't do an infinite number of hard heavy sets. First, sir. It's not like you can do eight top sets or something on one exercise. Especially if you're stimulus to fatigue ratio for lower reps, kind of sucks, and you're stimulus to fatigue ratio for higher reps is good. You can drop down the load pretty soon, and just after several or even in some cases, one top set, dropping the load down and going to higher reps gives you an all-around better stimulus to fatigue ratio. And down sets, which is the planned drop of load after a certain heavy sets are done, to continue to do straight sets, but at a lighter load, same exercise, down sets can be very effective and may have in some context, big stimulus to fatigue ratio boosts. However, unless you just don't rest after the heavy set and you go right into it, that's actually a downside. It's not a drop set, and a lot of the people on Instagram, bodybuilders training, one top set, one drop set, don't you do one top set, one down set, so you can get the terms right, which boats well for all the other shit they didn't get right, which we're getting to right away. So what is the bad stuff? There's a couple problems here. First problem is why just one top set, like if you do a set of 12 ultra-hard and heavy, do you have to go and do a set of 15 after a lighter? Does that mean if you did another hard set and you say got nine repetitions, that somehow those aren't very stimulative anymore, they're not very hyper trophics, they're not muscle growth promoting, like a heart set of nine is like pretty fucking stimulative, and you know, there's no reason to do a downside or another exercise at face value, right, if we really knew that the first set was just so great and the second set was just so ineffective, we could be like okay, that makes sense, but we don't know that, and in fact we know the opposite of that, that multiple high-quality sets can be achieved with the same load or a very similar load. So first just the one top set, one drop set doesn't make sense in this context. I'll tell you why people do it in a little bit, but it's not a scientifically based situation. Another thing is if you have to do one top set, one down set or one drop set, it's really down set, how many exercises do you have to do for that muscle group? Well, if you need to hit two or three one to three parts of a muscle really through the whole week, you don't need to hit them all in the same session, so that means you can do one to three exercises and three on the high end per muscle per session. You can do it with more exercise, let's say you can do ten sets total. You can split it into five exercises to it a time how this would be done, or you could do like four sets of one, four sets of another two sets of a last one and go. You don't have five versus three exercises. Here's the thing though, if you switch exercises often, you need to re-warm up for the exercise because you need to re-tool your technique a little bit and get in the groove. You probably don't go to your working weight, so you just adding warmups, you need to go to another part of the gym. Sometimes your machine is taken and you can't train with that exercise, you have to wait a little bit. Like, why do that? And also, in a long run, eating up your variation like that, like if you do your five best chest exercises every time you train chest, when one of them gets stale on you, what do you replace it with? Like, you're already using your top five. If you were ever just using your top three, you could take number four and five and replace them and get rid of another one, everything recycles and they're all, you're only ever using your best stuff. But if you use all your best shit right away, it's kind of bad news. It's like if you're, if you're, uh, she's, oh, I'm gonna say this, should I really say this? Scott, fuck it. If you're in the, I can only get into some adult films and, and you, and you buffer all your heavy hitters and you just go through those, but nothing's happened yet. Pro you're done, save that shit for any day. You don't have to use all your best stuff all the time. nonsense. And if you don't know what I'm talking about, keep breathing the Bible and the Quran and the Torah and you're doing well for yourself. The problem here is that it's a short-sighted approach. I want to take in a little bit of the long view, right? Here's another related thing to the so many exercises. If we do one top set, one drop set and we leave, we're forgetting the fact that the second set, still heavy, even the third set, can often feel even better from a perceptive, stimulus to fatigue ratio experience than the first set. Because there's something the first heavy set, I mean, you're warmed up for it, but things get creaky, your knees and elbows feel a little weird. It's shocking that your first heavy set of the day, you know, like, oh, that was good, but like, oh, I really took an out of me. If you take that same weight after a nice rest three to five minutes or something, check all the four factor rest boxes, go to that if you don't know what that is. And your second set oftentimes feels fucking better. Your joints feel better, your end of groove more with the movement, your feel and the muscle more, because it's warmed up, you had a chance to get really connect. The third set, sometimes it's the best one, a UK and the fourth set starts feeling a little stale, but the idea that you only have one heavy set, and that's going to be your best feeling set of the heavy weight. And then just one more down, down set technically drops it as they call it, and then it's time to switch to another exercise, fuck that after two sets, I'm just getting in the groove at an exercise. My third set's usually a one like, oh, fuck and now we're rolling fourth set, I'm like, okay, great, that's good and fifth set, I'm like, okay, fine, I love let me do another exercise. But the idea that it's you only have two effective sets, practice, I think you need to move on. And then it's just not true most of the time. So like, why the fuck are you fucking off? There's no good reason to do it. You know, it's kind of like, it's terrible analogy here. It's kind of like ending a date that's going real well after heavy padding, like you get up there in the apartment with her, whatever, and you're like, oh, get my night each other and she's like, okay, okay, I think I love you. Let's do this and you're like, I gotta get it going. She's like, oh, it's like a religious thing or whatever, because I'm cool, you're like, no, it's just um, I just like to when things are going really well, I like to get out. Even though they could be getting better, I like to just leave and go to another exercise, which in this case is me going down and finding another young girl to meet, similarly talking with her and getting to another one of these situations where I don't actually finish off the act. It's fucking stupid. It makes no goddamn sense. Now, why do people train like this as a fine question? One, is it a works fine? Look, two hard sets, one heavier one lighter, great. Multiple exercises enough to fill in your volume requirements. It works. It works. So, it's not like people that train like this are going to be like totally like small or weak or disaster injury-ridden. It's a fine way to do things, not the best way. It's needlessly complicated, needlessly annoying, but it's not the worst way that you could train by a long time. So why do they do it? Certainly not because it's one of the worst ways. It's the lefective. One top set often zaps people so much because they're really big and strong and they go to failure and beyond that they're just not in to getting into that pain zone again. And they like the pump feeling of a downside. It's easier. The joints are feels great. You just pump it out. So it's kind of like emotionally driven training. Like ideally, if you think about like what it would be like for you if you were like a champion basketball star and you're like what's your life going to be like bro, like if you're a fucking your Michael Jordan, like and you have his kinesthetic abilities straight up even 10% better than he ever was. What do you think your life's going to be like what are you going to think of your closure? I should be like, yeah, be dunking on mother fuckers, winking at the crowd, drinks with the boys after the club. Great. Bill, okay. What about the fucking 180 minutes of the worst game ever with 20,000 your tire to spuck? And it's like still the scores real tight. It's coming into the end of the game. Like wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. I don't know. That's not basketball starship. This is exactly basketball starship. You better love that shit to mother fucker. You better like early morning practice. You better like weights with a team. You better like sitting in a fucking, you know, chartered airplane flying a Japan for a fucking ex expo and you can't sleep when you're sitting there like what the fuck am I doing with my life? Who am I even and all the other stuff? So when people think like I'm going to be a fucking buy that badass pro bodybuilder. One top set, one top set and I'm out giving new machine something. But the reality is that that's preference, but it's not ideal. And the ideal is you put it a little bit more work with the heavy shit once you warmed up to it. A lot of people are just like a bit on the lazier side. They just don't want to grind multiple top sets even though there's a very effective. It's the most effective thing. But they'll take just a little bit less effective to get away from all that noise. And a lot of times they're kind of bored and not so great on the attention span focus. So they just want to use a bunch of fun machines. I mean, who doesn't right? You're traveling to New Jim. You want to trial the machines, right? But that doesn't mean it's the most effective thing in the world. So again, this isn't terrible to do what I want you to get out of this video. We're a pedantic we stated is I want you guys to look at the videos about it. I'm going to go to training for example doing one top set or drop set and not be like, oh, like I wonder why they're doing this. There must be some intricate insightful scientific effective thing about it. Some of the shit they do is definitely intricate mostly with farm, but this example is like just people doing stuff that happens to be short to the point fun and nice and varied and then enough to fucking grind. They're just trying to get away from the grind. If you realize that that's why they're doing that, you probably wouldn't fetishize them so much and be like, oh, I'm going to train just like this guy because he does one top set one drops it. You'd be like, what the fuck? This is because they're lazy. I should really be like grinding multiple top sets. Yes, how fuck? Like I just want you guys to realize that it's not always not everyone shooting for optimum and even if they say they are sometimes they really not. They're just using things that are convenient for themselves. So that's not exactly rocket science. What can we get away from this? What's the real talk on this? Here's the thing. A bit of a technical guide. First, warm up. Great. Hit your first heavy works. Stick to a similar load to that. That load or something very close. That amount of weight until either of the following things happen. Your reps fall out of your preferred stimulus to fatigue ratio range. You know, sets a 12 on the roll or great sets a 10 or okay sets a V8. It's just not enough time moving the bar balance. No good. So when you get below 10, you're like, fuck that, taking weight off the bar, getting back up to 12 to 15 totally fine. Another one is if you reps fall much under five reps per set, then set for set. They're not as hyper-trophic anymore because the volume of work isn't high enough. So then you say, okay, hit this for eight and seven, then five next set. I don't want to hit four. I'm going to do a down set totally fine answer. Right. But you could get five, you know, two, three or four sets before that happens in many cases. Next is you get a huge pump tons of fatigue and you know you're going to be way too sore. I continue. Because like if you continue to do sets, you're going to be way too sore. You won't work out from next time. Then you at the very least stop that exercise. Maybe have another exercise to do that hits the muscle from such a different angle that it doesn't contribute to that so or less. But more than likely, you're just done and you just don't train that muscle anymore and you go on to training. Four arms or calves or whatever other muscle people pretend to train but don't actually. And then another thing is if you know from prior experience or current experimentation that lowering the weight will make your next set have a notably higher stimulus to fatigue ratio. You absolutely can do that. Which means some people will take five sets at the same load. Some people will take one set at some load and then incrementally drop down from multiple sets after. There's tons of detail here because in a maintenance phase you probably don't want to do this. You just want to do straight sets and keep it simple because there's so few sets to do. There's you know sets of five to ten. You definitely can have times for drops in sets of 20 to 30. Like are you really going to down set something you got for 25 reps. What so you can get another 26 with it like 23 is just fine right after still in that. Rep range. There's a lot of nuance there. But the idea that it's one top set one drop set it disappears. The idea is reality. Some people might have that. Some people with three top sets one down set. Some people may have just three top sets and nothing at all. And some people might have a top set that a lighter set that a lighter set and a lighter set. And then they switch exercises and they go home that two sets and one of them's higher than the other and then that's it and you move on. It's a very thin slice of the variation and training everyone could be using and it's not in the most optimal part of the curve either. I have a job actually far away from that right. The best results for exercise for long term benefit. Usually between two to five sets per exercise and it's usually three or four. So just two all the time is probably not great. You can even do up to seven sets of the same exercise in one session and it wouldn't be too much right after you do your two to five. Then you can switch exercises performing one to three total exercises per session per muscle group almost never more than three. If you're training it away or thinking of training in a way that is six exercises. Each one of them is one top set one down set and it's a really one it should be. Then consider if that's the prescription that's right for you. And if it's not and if to be honest you're like man actually if I do too hard heavy sets. I feel the second one even better. Follow your feedback, follow your out of regulation. Do what's right. Instead of just maybe copying folks that are just doing something they also solve Instagram, but they're just having a lot of steroids. So you follow them. Or reminds me of me. See you guys next time.

Hey folks, it's me Dr. Mike, as we're telling for Renaissance, Pyrridsation, and today we're talking about hypertrophy myths. And this myth is active rum, active range of motion. People talk about it all the time. We're going to talk about what it is. Why it could be a good thing and could make some good points. Why it's not so great and pretty bad and pretty mythical. And then we'll talk to rapid all of the end. So the active rum myth is from people saying something like the following. Don't go down that low on the leg press. Your quads aren't active anymore. It's just passive range of motion. Anything over this height of upright rows or lateral raises all traps. It's not side delts anymore. The lats are not active past the torso or the active close to the top of the stretch. So don't go any the one. Just do this over here and keep it to that range because that's the active range. Right. Especially this idea that you can take muscles naturally through their natural motions and the limbs through distinct ranges in which they are so inactive or in such precarious positions that it's not worth going to that range of motion. And I'll tell you right now, this myth does have some good points. Plenty of good points, but not as many good points as most people think, which is why it's a myth. It's a marginal myth. Like almost all myths, except for like, I know the existence of ghosts and angels. I don't know, maybe angels are real. Aren't angels all around us in a certain sense as people and often dogs? Do all dogs really go to heaven? That's gotta be like fucking bullshit, right? You tell me Kujo went to fucking heaven after eating all those fucking kids? Well, shit. Alright, you get to heaven and Kujo's the first dog you see. He's got a lot of energy. Yeah, I'm getting done. You're now. Here is the good point that active ROM advocates make. Now they really make it this way because usually they don't make very good points, but some of them do and hear the good points. If the target muscle for an exercise, let's say the peck sort of the lats or whatever you're targeting through an exercise, a pressurple is no longer generating almost any force or a very tiny force relative to what it is capable of. And I mean, internally generating, not externally. You can lift the ton of weight here, but not a lot of weight here. I mean, internally the muscles barely contracting. If it is especially injurious position, one of which is like, you can get to that range motion, but you'll fuck your shit up. Like a completely arounded lower back at the bottom of an ultra heavy squat or deficit deadlift. If the muscle is no longer the target of a stimulus. So for example, if you have a completely straight arm fly with your pecks at some point, your biceps are really doing all the work and getting all the stretch and your pecks aren't. So it's not really a peck fly anymore. It's a bicep fly, which is actually not an terribly ineffective thing for biceps, but not what we want. Or the muscle is no longer the limiting factor of the movement. So again, the fly is our great example where down super, super low, your pecks are not the limiting factor, your biceps are a limiting factor. And if they're not strong enough, the movement doesn't go anywhere, doesn't even get high enough and up for your pecks to catch enough leverage to start doing this. If that's the case, then putting the muscle in that position and training regularly is perhaps unwise. You should constrict your arm such that you're training avoids the above. So if down here in flies, your shoulders hurt like shit, it's all biceps and dick else is happening. Maybe you don't do that. Maybe bend your arms a little bit and go just this low and not super crazy deep and maybe good things will happen. Absolutely true. Just talked about the peck flies in an example, so we're good there. All right. Some good points. However, the bad stuff and where there's goes a bit too far in turns into a myth. The muscle doesn't have to be it's most active to get a great stimulus. The biceps show the best EMG activity in the middle range. But we know that stretch under load from direct experimentation grows muscles, probably those muscles more. So know the biceps are not as active as measured by EMG in a deep stretch position on an incline curl for example, but they still get a great stimulus arguably new and better stimulus down there than they get over here. So that active raw is already something that passive tension generated by muscles in their ultra structures, due contributive hypertrophy and active versus passive is not dichotomous it is a spectrum. Muscles are more or less active, more or less passive in their force generating in force handling and a muscle that is producing less active force, but more passive force can still be very very hyper-traffic or stimulated. So okay, not all are nothing thing. So for muscles less active at some point in their engine motion that doesn't mean it's a bad range of motion. It could be equally or even more hyper-traffic. Interestingly enough, passive force generation and the hypertrophy that's meditated could actually require you less physical or emotional effort and thus could actually have lower nervous system fatigue. Getting hypertrophy without trying all that hard. I mean, next. This is a huge one. Muscles, many muscles, all the ones studied so far as far as I know, seem to get their best hypertrophic yields at stretched positions. Stretch under load is a real hell of a combination to illicit muscle growth. We know from lots of research that for a few reasons which I described in another video about the limits of EMG testing and that video is already published, you can Google it. You don't get EMG which is muscle activation is measured by electrical activity with all the leads and all that stuff. You don't get very high EMG signals out of a stretch position for a variety of reasons, but you get even better hypertrophy from that position. So if we look at studies, for example, they've done at least one study where people are doing pullovers and at some 120 or some shit degrees and further this way, the EMG activity drops off and people haven't interpreted that study to say that it's bad to go beyond that range motion. That's where it gets a ton of stretch and probably even the most growth for the latter course from here to here, or at least a very robust amount of pressure. So that's the thing. And other muscles can become important in those extreme ranges of motion, but they're still not limiting. Like there is a way in which, for example, G was at the very bottom of your leg press, your glutes can become important contributors, but your quads, even though their ultra stretched, are still limiting factor. So even though other muscles start to show of your high activities, that doesn't mean it becomes a glute exercise. It becomes more glute exercise than it was, but it's even more and more of a quad-actress size than it was because the quads are getting stretched like crazy and there's a lot of her hypertrophy. In addition to that, it's just this, I don't understand how the fuck people come to this conclusion, but people seem to think that every exercise needs to map one to one to go muscle. It turns out that it's okay for a single exercise to additionally hypertrophy other muscles that are not the single target muscle. So people will say in rows or something, don't pull the elbow behind the back because the lats lose leverage there. And that's true. But how is it that you are able to bring the elbow behind the back? It sure is how is a magic. Other muscles must do it. It's like the rhomboids, muscles like perhaps the terrasmager, muscles like the rear delts. And unless you are doing one exercise for your lats, another exercise for your rhomboids, another exercise for your middle traps, another exercise for your terrasmager, another exercise for a terrasmager, another exercise for a terrasmager, another exercise for your delts, and so on, you have to have some of the two or three exercises you do for back in a given session, cover a bunch of muscle groups. So if we're saying, well, don't reach past this because it uses other muscles and don't reach past this because it uses other muscles and it's not lats. We have to train all the other muscles too and doing a full range motion in most cases, just fucking grows the shit out of your whole back and rear delts and everything. It's all good stuff. You don't have to piss away time doing 50 redundant exercises to hit all the muscle groups. You can do like a few sets of bat rows of machine rows, a few sets of an isolation exercise like one of these and a few sets of pull ups or pull downs and then your whole fucking back is toast. The rear delts too, as opposed to being ultra ultra specific for no reason. Right. So that's the bad stuff. Now here's the real talk. The ultimate guide to what range of motion you should be using is the stimulus to fatigue ratio. Does it? The exercise in that range of motion give you a ton of perceived tension in that muscle. Does it give you a burn at higher reps in that muscle? Does it give you a pump in that muscle after a few sets? Does it give you soreness and disruption in that muscle and weakness in that muscle after a few sets and maybe a day later? On the other hand, does it hurt the joints in connective tissues? It doesn't just completely exhaust your whole body or is it pretty kind to them. Stimulus on that top side fatigue on the bottom side, divide the two into each other and you get the stimulus to fatigue ratios. The more you can get a big hit with tension, burn, pump, soreness, etc. And the last joint in connective tissue disruption can impose and less systemic fatigue and impose, the better. So if you pick a standardized range of motion and you do it and it's got a really good stimulus to fatigue ratio, maybe you try going a little deeper and it hasn't even better stimulus to fatigue ratio, for example, if you bench press with a regular barbell and the definition stops at your chest. You may at some point have access to either dumbbells or even better a cambered bar that has a big open middle space and you can get to blow your chest to for a really nasty stretch. You will often notice that the stimulus to fatigue ratio for deep dumbbell presses and for sure, cambered bar presses is better in many cases, not all. Then barbell presses just with a straight bar. And someone could say, well, what about active wrong? Well, what about my pecks for two sets of the shit get blown into the fucking moon in my joints feel amazing? Active passive, fuck you, wrong. I don't give a shit, it fucking works. We know it works. And it's empirical experience. It's theoretical supposition every fucking day of the week. You can tell me the shit doesn't work. How the fuck do I get massive sort of and a crazy pump? That shit is not by accident. Clearly something's going on in my muscles, right? So you start out with a certain standardized range of motion. My ankle is itchy. And you play around with a bit more ramen, a bit less ramen. You see which one produces the best stimulus to fatigue ratio for you. It'll take you while they figure that out. And then you do the thing that makes the best as a far. Sometimes that means if you roll, you'll stop here because you're going to go back here and just nothing happens. Sometimes it means you're all the way and you'll feel all that shit in back. Do all the really good stuff, get sore, get pumped, tension burn, and you're like, oh, man, I'm glad I'm doing this whole super full range of motion thing. And don't forget, tension understructures important. And that does not come through on EMG studies. So if you're saying well, but muscle activation was shown to be lower in this and that, that's only part of the picture and it's a very shitty, very small part. If you guys really want to read some fun articles about the limits of EMG, Google EMG Andrew Vagotsky spelled phonetically V, I, G, O, T, S, whatever. Ski. Fucker, I'm not a smaller shit. He knows how to spell his name and that's what's important. And Google knows even better. So EMG is very, very limited. It is a tool, but it is a very, very limited tool. And so don't just Google EMG studies and be like, oh, clearly this is the only thing in active rums thing. That's not quite the case. Especially considering stretch under load is super powerful mediator of hypertrophy. And it doesn't show up much on EMG. So it looks like there's almost no muscle activity, but it turns out that's where the most of growth happens or at least a lot of it. Next thing is many exercises, something to remember, target multiple muscles and higher range of motion usually does that most of the time. When people say, oh, will it give, if you do lateral raises and you stop here, it's all delts. It's not mostly delts. And if you go up here, it's no delts and all traps. It's not. It's a lot of traps, but still a bunch of delts. My question to that always is, I'm not the fuck going to some wrong with your traps. The two big for you, or do you want to belabor having to do extra shrug training in addition to your lateral. If you do super full on rarals, stopping here is nothing wrong with it. But if you do super full on rarals and go all the way, assuming your shoulders can take it, which most of the time they can if you're using good technique, you're going to get an amazing, just as good if not better, side delts stimulus. But you also get a free traps stimulus. I should put that in an arm marked van, white van with no windows, free traps stimulus. Kids come in and, well, you guys can't do that. They never leave. The only place to go is the side of a mill carton. That's where kidnapped children go, I believe. In any case, last thing I'll say, do not, at least casually, replace your perceived stimulus to fatigue ratio in an exercise with a first pass biomechanical analysis, which is the only kind you'll get following people on TikTok and Instagram or me, call themselves biomechanists, but have no degrees in the field. Eyelazers. If some kind of range of motion really fucks up your triceps tension, so on a spur, the whole thing, but someone comes up and they're like, technically, you're not in the act of problem with tricelli. You just flex shit at him and they'll fuck off. But on a serious note, if something really fucks you up, it's great for your joints and it really hits the muscle. Active passive. As you've noticed from this talk, there's a ton of nuance there. There's no guarantees and because hypertrophy can be active or passive in a stretch mediated form, if it really hits you fucking hard and it keeps your joints feeling good in the rest of you feeling great, somebody tells you you're going to deep because of some kind of passive act of rumble shit. Just be like, hey, live live live live live live live live live live live live. Nice, but I'll need some more compelling evidence to tell me that what seems to be working best for me in the gym is actually not good for reasons that even most by a mechanism to disagree with. In any case, I got pretty feisty. Like, subscribe, join remember section if you want real nerd shit and just be a good person. Just go out there and do good for this world. Jesus, plant a tree or something. Get off YouTube for a bit. Have a good time. Come back on and watch our videos. See you guys next time.

Let's go right now. Oh yeah. Good stop. Take a break. This is going to be like workout every set two failure. Hey folks, I'm Dr. Mike. This is Jared Feather, IFV Pro. And this is Bryce Adams. And she has the unique distinction that's having the most followers on the OnlyFans platform. And it's the most liked creator on OnlyFans. Which is cool because now we have three top OnlyFans people in the same video at the same time. As you know, Jared is the most requested feet picks of all time through EverCense. He's the onlyFans Jared's feet. I've been described this and Jell like as cathartic as sublime. You won't see them here because y'all motherfuckers go have to pay for that. Yeah, it's where on the other end. But in any case, me, everyone knows this old news. You're the most liked person on OnlyFans. And I feel that. I'm the most loved person on OnlyFans. There's like a secret love emoji that you open up for 59. The gentleman just spray me with love. In any case, my doctor said it was called somebody else and not love. But outside of that, we are going to do a smash and grab total leg workout. Mine is calves. Who trains calves anyway? We are going to do hamstrings. We are going to do glutes. And the quads, you don't do quads. They do you back. Yeah. What do you think your chances are of having just a magical fun time with no tears, no vomit and no rolling on the floor in your own spot? Like zero, but it's going to be a magical time. Magical time anyway, Jared. Any parting thoughts? Just get to the bank. Paying time now. Alright folks, Bryce's first exercise is going to be the good morning. It is also Sunday morning when we're reporting this. It's about to be a bad morning for her. Don't tell her. She can't hear this. Good mornings. It's the hamstrings and the glutes and the lower back. And the mid back. All at the same time. And the way you want them to hit the hamstrings most is we're going to hinge at the hips. Push into butt back. That way. How many only fans related jokes can we make? We'll see. But it starts right now. In any case, nothing you want to look for. If your knees bend a lot, it turns mostly into a glute movement. We've got glutes coming up later. Don't you worry. We are mostly hamstrings. Which is why we're going to take the knee and fix it right in place. Soft lock out just barely out of lock. And then all of the movement comes from the hip. When you feel a painful stretch, that's good. Another big tip for good mornings is to have it down to a predictable bar height where you put it on the platform that can tell you you're doing a standardized range of motion. It makes progression really easy. You're not for second guess yourself. We're doing multiple sets of five to ten repetitions. These centric controls, everything. I'll come back in a bit and tell you guys more stuff. But for now, I just want to address one thing. Why she got a mask on. You feel me? I'm here with my real face is ugly and awful as it is. What's the mask? Well, I'm inclined to believe that she's actually a crying fighting superhero in her other job. Just can't show that shit off. It's like Batman and Robin. Except she's Batman and Robin. I never thought that through. Let's go do exercises. Ooh, got a plus. Let's pause. That was pretty good. Got a pause. Slow. Slow. Pause. Up. Two more. Like the lower back. Big chest full pun. Slow. Slow. Good one more. Big pause this time. Wait for a second down there. Slow. Slow or? Oh, yeah. Up. Raph. Good job. I still find you my rhythm. It's hard. It's hard. It's not fair being a girl. It's technically flawless. Good morning on her second try ever. How does it feel like we are playing? It can be like this. Impressive. Impressive. Yeah. It'll be more in emotion. But I think you have the mobility flexibility for it. It's a little bit. It's a little less. Yeah. Roll us up here. Really push. Exactly. Just sit up and back. Up and back. And then try to open. Open your knees tonight. And then these three are feet. Yep. Exactly. Just like that. You're going to feel a little more. Yeah. It's going to be hard. Okay. There you go. Good. Good. Control. Control. Control. Control. Up. Excellent. Go back. Slow on the way down. Back. Back. Back. Back. There you go. Keep it going. All day. Slow. Slower. Back. Slower. A couple more. Keep it tight. We're back. Got this. You got it. Slow. You've got to slow. Yes. All bright. That was the best one. Gentle touch. You want to touch it as gently as possible. Slow. Slow. Gentle. Up. One more in your done. I think it's good. Slow. No rush. Slow. Back. Up. Good. Back. There you go. You're going to know? I'm going to go back on that. Sure. She hasn't done good mornings and long time. Long time. Time for more difficult things. Okay. Two sets of good mornings. In the tank. She hasn't trained her hamster usually. Center glowed to a while. She hasn't done good mornings and a long time. So we're going to call it there. We don't want to do rap, don't type shit. And training rest of the lower body more. So now we do front foot elevated dumbbell lunges. The front foot elevation is to hit the glutes more because it puts the front loop, which is the one that stretch under even greater stretch. The key with this exercise is to use the front foot to produce almost all the power. And the back foot is just there for balance and support. In addition to that, you want to make sure that you do a slow eccentric movement. Gently touch the knee to the ground. Potentially take a pause and then come back up. Do you want leg? Do you rest a little bit? Do you do the other leg? Do you rest a little bit? And so on and so forth. So sets of G-Py 10 to 20 here. This is going to be painful. The number one requirement is the technique has to stay good even during the painer. So we're occurring here in many other videos. Technique is the foundation on top of that. You lay a good repetitions. All of them are with good technique. So control up. Go, go, down you. Yes, more. More. Slow control. You're doing amazing. Gently up. Up. One more. This is going to be tough. Nobody said easy. You got this slow and gentle. Slow. Easy. Up. Go. One more. Last one. Right now. No rest. Slow. Slow. Up. Up. That's it. Yeah. Good stuff. Good stuff. All there you found it. Good stuff. That was excellent failure because your technique never broke down and you just couldn't do it at some point. That was awesome. Take real break. Keep yourself strapped in and we'll switch legs. Anything like this where your grip can become an element in the back there. It's smart to strap up. Every back session. Every straight leg deadlift. Every lunge. Anything where you're holding onto something for a while. Really controlling easing tricks. Why take the target muscle and make it the forearm so you can just do extra forearm work. So if you're really trying to hit the back really trying to hit the hamstrings and glutes whatever it is, the shoe straps, there's no point having a needle about that kind of thing. I still see people training back without them, especially. And it's like, if you can just actually target the back by using straps, not having the form. This is a limiting factor. Session is going to go way better. Keep it up. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Up. Up. Up. Up. Stop. Stop. Hey, that was great. Did you think I'm going to do it too? Whatever. It's going to be a traction. You're going to take it. That was awesome. Let's strap it on. Yeah. You guys have been done strapped on work before and you strapped on? Yeah. I find it fun. It's hilarious. It's like, ah, I think it's finally like a little power. Oh, yeah. I don't know. I didn't expect to like it as much as I did. Yeah, yeah. It's exactly lunges, but in reverse. The lunges fuck you over and spread it right up. Good job. Let's get one more here. One more. You got this. Slow. Control. Gen size. Stand up. All right. Get really dumbbells. Put them off the sides. Unboke. Back to the 10 dumbbells. Which legs? You got this go go go go go. Time is up. You feel free to have your hands out. Count now. Yes. Up. One more. Woo. Slow. Slow. Up. One more. Down. Right away. Down. Slow. Up. Good. Which legs? Relax for a second. Something to hit her with. Which legs? Relax for a second. Something to hit her with. So it's actually down to this slow control. They check. Up. Up. Up. Up. Again. Come on. Slow. Control. Go. Go. Again. Right here. Come on. Go. Slow. Relax. Gen. Push. Yeah. Good. Good. Good. Thank you. Oh. Wee. You did great. You did fucking great. It's like a good kind of hurt. Yeah. You got a house loved having done it in the moment. You're like, okay. Let's get to this. It's always good afterwards. Oh, yes. Do you feel like throwing up or are you not quite yet? No. No. Wait. What? Oh. Stroll. All the way to her. Oh, shit. I'm not coming up. Press. All right. I'm going to help you come up. We're going to try one, two, three. Go. Help. Thank you. Oh. You're going to launch. Yeah. Now we beat you up. Yeah. Yeah. It's quite a waste of time. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's quite a waste of time. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's quite a waste of time. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Hi, bar squats. You got this thing on your back. You're probably close to grip because your arms are not the size of your legs. And what you're going to do is keep your chest upright. You're going to tilt your hips back. And then your knees are going to go on your knees. Go forward. So you're sitting a little bit back and then down. He'll stay down. You stay upright. Sit all the way down. Super deep. Your heel state on the ground at all times. Okay. You're going to use your four. Your chest is up. You pass for one split second. And then you stand up athletically. Go down slow under control. Okay. Stand up athletically. And then after you're done. Oh. Four feet. Shhh. You too. Sort of like. Yeah. That's why I was in fine. Thank you. Some of you probably drink. We're going to play a game called. Any time Mike makes a humble brag, you think it's shot. You're going to be fucked up by the end of the studio. They got some loud music. I can't hear it. Yeah. Yeah. But you're just the first thing that stands up is your chest. You're going to be a lot harder. You're going to be all quads. But just try to stand up from right there. No, no, ask back. There it is. Yes. Yeah. Okay. I call that stripper pulling. Yeah. We try not to stripper pull. Quads. There it is. There it is. Keep it going. Watch. Oh, oh. Hell yeah. Yeah. Now. Let's go. Let's go. Chest up. Yes. Again. Down. You're doing great. Keep it going. Slow. Control. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. You're complex. So, like, usually when I tell people, don't do this or don't do that, it gets hard. And that is exactly what they do. Yeah. But even on that last try, you could've shortly shot your butt back, probably quit. No, they wouldn't do that. You're nicer. You're super tough. Okay. Like, you're super successful. You must coach the hell added. Yeah, it's really awesome. equity chest, a. He chest right there. Good. Good. Come on. Slow.手. Bix했어 right there on the plud. Good. Chest up. Slow. Slow. Up. Oh yeah. Go on. Go on. Oh shit yeah. Slow. Control. I just successfully got this. Yeah. Yeah. Oh. No. You caught yourself. That was good. I caught myself. That was good. That was great. It just. Up. Yes. Slow. Slow. Speed. Oh. Oh. You got it. Go get one more. You got this. Save up that power. It just. Speed. Yes. Another one. Jump. Go. Big chest. Big chest. Big chest. Big chest. You know what I'm saying. Oh yeah. She fell into the last round. I did. She lost. Good. Awesome. That was awesome. You want them to get up with? No. I want to see you get up without it. That'll be real fun. Just, you know. For ourselves. There we go. Tana. Yay. You lost. Yeah. Yeah. That's something moving. I'm not spritz. That's what you put. Oh shit. Wow. I can't feel. Good job. I can't feel my life. That's great. Thank you. Hello. I'm a biological woman. I'm a biological. So Jared. Awesome. Like we said in the video, she, her. They both kind of have watched our P channel. The creeper doesn't the background all the time. And they've watched the R3 channel. And, uh, have really picked up a lot of tips and stuff. You say coaches are through them quite a bit. Any time we gave a tip, she was immediately the next rep was perfect and very receptive. Didn't modify technique as shit load. Like you see a lot of people do. So yeah, that's awesome. I love, I love the kind of coaching. Amazing. Yeah. We got a technique. Instant effort. Yeah. Total annihilation. You did amazing. Whoever you are in real life. I don't know. We didn't ask keeps your identity safe. I just want, you know, I want to thank you for the bottom of my heart. For fighting for justice in our modern society. And I'm super heroine. You did awesome. And best of luck in all your endeavors. Thank you. And, uh, you know what I'm saying? I'm saying extra special thank you to both. Otherwise this is fabulous. I'm so glad we could do it. I feel yeah, it's a great. I'm so happy. I'm so happy. I feel great. Like I'm, I'm, yeah, I'm really excited. If you think great. If you want me to do it, I will do it. I will do it. I'm so excited. You were awesome. Yeah, good stuff. Thank you so much folks. Thanks for tuning in. And if you want to see more things that involve the other side of the industry, well, the G was, she's got all her info and all that stuff. But enough about that. She's want to see me. I don't really fancy. You're saying you get the body here. You get the smile, a whole of whole of whole of. Have you shown your glutes? Oh, I've shown more than my glutes. Please. Jared, do a lot. Show us real glutes. Come on now. Jared is the two time back to back glute champion. All the only fan. In any case, she's not.

Oh, oh, you're right. It is slime. It comes off the bar. This is the part in the alien movie where like takes over. And I'm there! Yeah! Ah! My supposed to eat this. Hey, I'm Dr. Mike, Professor of Sport Science and bodybuilder. We asked you guys with the best protein bars in the world. We're, you let us know. We bought them all and I'm gonna heat all of them. Oh, yeah! Anabar, the protein-packed candy bar. Well, plain. How can this bar fail when it has an abolism right in the name? No sugar alcohols. That's gonna good. If you don't want to have bloody diarrhea, you tube. You guys said this bar was sweet. Time to find out how wrong you were. Biker, that's good. God damn, this is for real. No, the fuck is better. Not be lying about these ingredients. God damn it. One of the best bars are around. How to start? It's got to be there. We're going to. I'm going to go into fats a little high, but for 20 grams of protein, 25 grams of carbs are off lead. And no sugar alcohols. Excellent meal replacement bar for someone, you know, even fat loss phase. But definitely, um, if you're bulking, great. If you're maintaining great, I would say very, very, very tasty meal replacement. Metrex, fruity, cereal, crunch, big 100 bar. The big 100 is a classic. Now macros wise, it's pretty goddamn good. 14 grams of fat, not the best. But the proteins at 30 which is dope and the carbs minus fiber situation at 42. This is like one of those you want a protein bar, but you're fining. E. Yeah, let's find out how to taste. I've actually never had this flavor before. I've had, I think, every other flavor. So we've fixed this one because we can make this fiber. So that you have this in a big, green. Well, there's a bunch of cream on here. I hope we didn't do it all over all the bars. Hug. I have an exact, exact scenario for how this bar makes sense. You wake up and you are in a dystopian future. Where everyone is controlled by machines and lives little pods and they let you have social hour. You meet the cutest ass bitch. She's like, you are from the before time. And you're like, well, yeah, I'm saying girl, you're going to fucking that. And she's like, gives me this bar. She's like, is this what fruity pebbles for real tasted like in the before times? And I'm like, bitch, no, are you out of your fucking mind? This is exactly what machines would think that fruity pebbles taste like. And they got it wrong. These aren't even smart machines. Matrix. I love you guys. Your big 100 chocolate brownie is legitimately one of my favorite foods. Period snack, no snack, brownie, not brownie cheat, not cheat. It's just amazing. This. I'll be charitable and say for someone else's proud. Sure, shit, not mine. Fuck that. The legendary foods. Chocolate cake flavored protein history. Yeah, that's good. So every protein bar sits on a spectrum of how good it is. And that spectrum entirely depends about where you are in your fitness journey slash diet journey. If you're off season, end of a massing phase, end of a maintenance phase, very beginning of a cup. No protein bar is going to taste that amazing. The end of a fat loss phase, every protein bar tastes amazing. This is one of the special ones that beginning of a diet, midway through a massing phase, is still pretty goddamn good. So it actually, they got the right, the filling. It actually tastes like filling. It's got a bit of that creamy texture to it. The surrounding dough is a bit flakyer than you expect from regular dough, which is of course made in Italian protein. But yes, it's actually very good. And my wife and I got a bunch of these at one point and ate them all. So success. Rated, rated adequate. Robert Irvin's Fit Crunch Chocolate Chip Cookie Doe. Chocolate Chip Cookie Doe. Sport. Apparently you guys like this the best. The Fit Crunch bars are both insanely delicious and concomitantly terrible for you as you would expect. Chef Robert Irvin, owner, says something. He's got a message here on the back. My goal is simple. I want to empower people through food and fitness to thrive each day. Let's find out how much thriving is potentiate after trying this. It's pretty good. Not as good as the Anabar. It's not what? For the macros, definitely not as good in the Anabar. But I'd say this, get you a Fit Crunch Bar. If you want a protein bar in need, protein, but you don't really care about macros too much. It's just an amazing tasting protein bar or like a decent tasting candy bar with protein. Mountain Ops 20 grams of protein, peanut butter, the lifts. Mountain Ops 12 grams of fat. Better be stuck up in the mountain. The initiate. Need to burn that shit off when a bear comes chasing it. Or when someone's sufficiently intelligent, tries to open this. I will say Mountain Ops, the packaging looks great. Look at how orange it is and it's got the peanut butter bliss and it's soft baked. Used to call me soft baked in high school. Never baked anything. There's just soft a lot. The fuck is in here, you're tasting banana. Just post out banana. Raising the bar never tasted so good. Fair plain Mountain Ops. It's a fine bar. So those are the ones that you always see at like R&I. Yeah, you're going out the wilderness. Yeah. Here's a bar, idiot. Solid. It exists. Fair bells. Protein bars I've had these before. Mostly, valuable, a kingdom. And the macros are good. Very good. Slick packaging. Super easy to open. Rechairs. What does this chocolate dough? There we go. It's got little things on it. These usually just scratch the roof of my mouth. I would describe this bar like a dependable boyfriend. And Jim's not the best looking guy in the world. Not the most athletic. His job. He does fine eddies not a trillionaire. But Jim's a good guy. And he always comes through. The mediocre that is. Barbells, chocolate dough. It's a bar you can put in your mouth. There you go. Who normally will join us to the next day. I'll give you a brawl and swallow. You don't hate it. And it'll give you protein. Rhocam, that's advertising it. They're other flavors are quite good. They have like a nuttone like almond or something. A peanut? That is a salty peanut. Yeah. Yeah. Still a salty peanut. I'm not want to eat any berry bells. to design protein bars, competently, but maybe they're just too fun loving guys with connected hair. 17 grams of protein, with only two grams of sugar, G was the other macroism was amazing, let's confirm. Now, at least, yes, this is not a fitness food. It is a for fun food, because a 17 grams of protein and 21 grams of fat. It has as many grams of fat as I was years old when I first received the sexual attention of the opposite sex. What's the flavor here? Maple French toast. Crunchy and almost entirely bereft of flavor. We're in the flavor. Put more fucking carbs in it, God damn it. At 21 grams of fat, who's counting at that point, just put everything in it, fuck, then you Larry. Your cookies are the shit. This goes to the away place where we don't talk about things anymore that go there. Oh, a classic pure protein. Now, typically the macros on the user great and indeed they are. And to be honest, folks, before I try this, whatever I say about how taste doesn't really matter, everyone knows when your hardcore lifter that you eat pure protein bars for the macros. They are the macros that go into your face. You can eat them at a rush. And they're releasing a pack, because they're small. That's what it has been said about mine. General anatomy. Yes. I'll leave you up. Motherfuckers are fucking with me. Fuck all of you. That's gotta be a joke, right? Oh, the other ones are better, right? The other ones are better. It's worse fun. I've ever had. From pro protein. If you're protein, you chalk the brown either original. It's fucking dope. Your salt and caramel is fucking incredible. This, somebody need a fire for that shit. Americans, listen up. America is in many ways. Perhaps some of the most important the greatest country on the face of the earth. But because it does not have a steady supply of Snickers, high protein bars and other countries like that you've more a kingdom do, that leaves us in a precarious situation where we have to spend maybe 10 times more in defense spending, they just make up for the shame that we do not have this beautiful, pinnacle reach of productive free market capitalism. This is actually fucking decent macros. And you know how it tastes? Are you not on a taste? Fucking amazing. The best. There is no new king. The old king never left. Snickers and protein are like two dolphins that are in love having sex. You guys are seeing dolphins have sex when they're in love, especially when they're in love. Scott, there is a rainbow bunny rabbit unicorn party happening in my mouth. Like that better than the animal. Yes. But not my much. Anabar is like the guy that takes second place. But he's like jack to shit. He just missed his conditioning by a little and you're like bro next year. I'm not writing him off. Snickers is still king. Unbelievable. Unbelievable. How is this legal? That was the end of our official testing but we have two fun bars left. Our definition of fun may be radically different. Zone perfect. This is the best rated bar on Amazon. The top rated Amazon phone. You're joking. First, let's see if it meets the parameters of the Zonediac. Wouldn't it be funny if it didn't? The Snickers beat the straight-up on macros. Straight up, the Snickers is better macros. God damn, there's better taste. Fucking good. That's fucking good. That's fucking good. I should have known. It's made by Abbott Labs. Anything named by a chemical company mega syndicate. Is my home and my taste buds. It's fucking great. It actually tastes really good. I wish they could squeeze a little more protein in there and keep the fat the same. If they could do that, they would be Snickers. They are not. Now that I'm saying it, there's a weight of a tangy after taste. Oh, zone. How could you? The keto bar. It is the worst rated bar. How to Amazon. Whoa, it really is keto. Net carbs here are three. There's three carbs in this motherfucker. 13 grams of fat. There's always a trick to keto. Calibates 170, that's not that many, but also like it's tiny, which memory serves. It's 180 calories. Watch this. Fucking your clips. It's like two times the size. I had better be getting something. Are those 10 extra calories? Here we go. Let's try that face really audience. It's like, got a translucent texture. It's like a layer of slime. Oh, oh, you're right. It is slime. It comes off the bar. This is the part in the alien movie where it takes over an animal. Yeah. Ah. It really is covered in a fluid of sorts. It's at the bar of sweating. It's so good for your fitness. It comes sweating already. My supposed to eat this. Oh, shit, it's got bovine collagen in it. Why didn't you say so? Peanut butter, chocolate chip. I thought it was going to be squishy, but it's like Stan Playburn. I thought it was oil. It's oil. This is fucking oil on the bar. Keto, when will you go away? How do you make something slimey and dry? No way, wait, I got it. Make it keto. Keep the witness inside the bar folks. Out outside of it. Get that out of my face. Alright, folks. Wrap it up here. The final verdict is as follows. Snickers, high protein, rain, supreme with an iron fist on believable macros and unbelievable taste texture of the whole thing. It's like they have experience making candy bars and just ad protein to it. The anobar surprise from where the fuck does came from. I believe the countries are up. They're stuffed all out of it. Hold up. Hmm. Which is good spot. Made wear. Made a US of a baby. Woo! I could just see a bald eagle snatching up some other countries animal out of the sky. Snickers dominant anobar honorable mention as very close runner up. Of course, runner up to last is the pure protein, Mulan Rouge bar. I don't know if I could just red velvet. It's terrible in every conceivable way. But that's not the worst bar because the wonder fit keto bar is terrible in ways I couldn't conceive of and still can't. A bar with fucking oil on it that's also dry on the inside. Thank you so much for tuning in. And if we missed a bar something or missed 5 or 10 bars that you think are the best, let us know in the comments. And if you disagree with something I said, let us know in the comments. If you like protein bars, yeah, I don't anymore after this challenge. See you guys never.

Hey folks, I'm Dr. Mike. Welcome to the Targeting the Muscle Series back again. Barbell standing overhead shoulder press. It's a lot of work to say for one exercise. That's what we're focusing on and making sure you get really great stimulus to your front delts. If you need that sort of thing and of course you try steps as well. Oh, that's my wife, Crystal. She is of more normal size than me and I am no longer able to do this exercise properly because my arms got too big and I'm sure you'll have a comment about somebody older that has bigger arms than me and can still do these properly. And then I have nothing to say to you except I'm not that flexible and I cry a lot of night before I go to sleep. But that crying will come later. First, let's get to our first tip. Where to put as they call it in Jewish the hands. Ideally, in most cases you'll get the best stimulus the lowest fatigue by putting your hands just outside of shoulder width for me right here. But if not a hard rule, some people can actually go a bit wider and get a ton out of the exercise without discomfort. Some people can go a bit narrower. Ideally, you want your hand to come just to the outside of your shoulder at the bottom of a press. That is for the purpose of maximizing hypertrophy because that maximizes the range of motion and the degree of stretch we expose the front delts and triceps to. That is not a guarantee that it will maximise how much weight you can lift in the exercise. That shoulder pressing for strength. And if you Google my name and standing press your military press your shoulder press and Google the number 275, you will see your boy pressing 200 and 75 pounds for set of eight. Fierce back. And that's just strong. You're going to say it's fake weight just kidding. It's real. I used to be a great shoulder presser. But I got to jack to be able to do it. In any case, that was a nice tangent to nowhere. But what I'm trying to say is strength is cool. And if you want shoulder press for strength, you'll have to play around starting with the grip I was talking about just outside shoulder width to see where you can lift the most weight. But for hypertrophy purposes, just as I shoulder width is usually good. But feel free to play around a finger width here or there to see where it's best for you. You're probably thinking it's all just come to the chase. How much are we allowed world-strogress man style to arch the living shit out of our backs during the shoulder press? Press the launchers show us what a completely upright zero arch press looks like. Yeah. Beautiful. And then give us give us some, give us arch. Oh yeah. Oh, howly yeah. What's up? Olympics 1952. Go ahead and rock. Awesome. Thank you for that down. Here's the thing. If you try to stay completely upright, you end up in a situation in which the barbell kind of floats in front of you. And then you have to press it around your face, which is fucking weird, radically reduces how much weight you can use, radically reduces the forces exerted. And also, you have to really push your shoulders forward, which can make the joint feel strange. My experience that's no bueno. So this idea that you'll see in a lot of other YouTube videos not to shit on other content creators, though fuck all of them. Just kidding. Jeff and Emperor the man, the rest of you fuck all of you. Just kidding. Many of you are great. Some people especially from old school 2010 YouTube would have demos where they're like, make sure to crunch your abs and press like this. I'm like you pussy motherfucker. You can't press the fucking bar plus a few goddamn 25 in that bitch. Fuck out of here. Nobody strong presses like that. And I can get big press like that. It's fucking impossible. The people who teach you to press like that don't actually lift weights in that regard. What you want to do is take a gentle natural little tiny baby arch and simultaneously lift your chest up. Bring your shoulders back a tad. That forms a super powerful shelf. And it allows you to press more vertically. You'll still have an arc. We'll talk about that in a bit. But it's much more of a natural movement. If you lean back a ton and you get lower back pain, don't fucking lean back that far. But you're going to lean back a little bit in its less of a lean. And more of lifting your chest up, pushing it out and starting from here. Crystal, would you like to demonstrate that technique? So do the first, do the first like really curved over super straight one. You see the abs are crunched. Press that's kind of weird. Right? It is weird, right? So, and then chest up nice and firm. Hit it. Beautiful. And down. And rack. Excellent. Next tip. It's kind of an awkward tip. And there's so many jokes to make off it. I'll just let you make them in the comments. Press as close to the face as possible. Right here. If you arc away from the face, your force production drops because the lever arm increase. That's not terrible thing. But it's really bad for tracking. You don't know how many you push the push bar out too far and all of a sudden you lost two reps. Look, oh my god, they didn't have my maximum recovery volume and getting weaker. Well, if you keep the bar close to the face, it standardizes it. And cool enough, it allows you to present a lot of force into the bar instead of losing it that way. And then you can lift more weight, which is cool. That's not what we're after after the standardizations are crystal. Don't you show us the wrong way where people are, you know, six inches away from their face. You probably use that sort of thing. Yeah, there you go. I don't know what the fuck that was, but don't do that. Now the right way real close to the face. Zip and back down. And one more the right way. Zip and back down. Beautiful. All right, next tip is as soon as the bar passes your forehead, you want to tilt your head, push it through. So you're going to start with your chin back, chest up, and as soon as the bar passes your forehead, you're going to lean forward a little bit, pushing your head through, and simultaneously driving the bar, just a little bit backwards. The alternative to this is crystal-ishening a second is kind of like a high inclined press situation. By pushing your head through, you're optimizing mechanical advantage by staying close to the tilt of the joint, right? Which means you can lift more weight, which is cool, strongman, and weight lifterism will get a lot out of that. But for high-purchy feet purposes, when you push your head through and you push the bar back, you actually get a little bit of side-delt growth as well, and a hell of a trap stimulus. So it checks all the boxes, and if you're going to do that high inclined press scenario where you just end there and do this, it is a bit more stress on the lower back in the sciatic area. It's not like the worst thing in the world, but it's more sustainable. It transfers better to strengthen power to do it the right way. As soon as the bar passes, you get a tilt. It's going to feel weird if you've never done this before, so that a few times to you. I've never spoken to my wife before, outside of this occasion, it's a paid relationship. In any case, you'll get used to it, and it's going to feel super fucking natural. Not supernatural, super-period, natural, also-period. Let's do it. Let's try the wrong way first, who's taking nice arch, just press straight. Yeah, this is okay, but it's really kind of like an incline press. The better way to do it is to stay close to the face, and as soon as the forehead passes, notice crystal tilts her whole body and head forward. Just a little bit. You don't have to do this bullshit of exaggerating where you're like, Crystal just some kind of duck walk shit. Yeah, do some kind of like black swan shit. Holy fuck, in the bar flies back that way, it's all stupid. It's gentle, it's subtle, but it works. And that's what I tell all the ladies. Last tip of the day is to control that eccentric. Here's the deal. Control the eccentric, a standing barbell overhead press. Is a gigantic pain in the at. It's humbling, you have to use less weight. It's offensive, you want to be athletic and all like, weightlifting type shit, you know, a fucking cloak-off and shit, I feel that, 100%. Well, 100%. Me personally, if I ever see cloak-off in real life, I get a blush, turn red, direction, I want to get close, I kind of want to smell them. On the other hand, I don't want to like, crowd them out because it's got a male god. That I'm totally married and about 150% straight, 149, but do me sure cloak-off, if you can hear this? Is that us, but to? The little personal, it's okay. So, in any case, let's try these slowest things. Try these slowest eccentric first. Give us some athletic bullshit, where, yeah, fuck yeah, fasty centric. Woo! We're really doing it. Yeah. No good. Slowest eccentric, nice press, and then a three second ride. Oh shit, yeah, pause. And then again, slow, notice, fast on the way up is great. But on the way down, it's super slow, perfect, rack. Amazing, amazing, amazing. Folks, it's been so nice to have crystal round for a few videos. And look, if you want to like, I know this is a contract and you're not really my wife. Maybe we could, I'm not saying it, Mary, that's crazy. That's like, third time remaining. Like, if you want to like, maybe you just kick, like, a coffee or something, like, maybe beer, like, just a movie or the book or anything, anything. Okay, pick up seminar, stay tuned for details. I'll see you guys next time.

Hey folks, it's me Dr. Mike. Welcome back to the Targeting the Muscle Series. Today we're going to be targeting the triceps in the overhead, easy bar extension. Now you notice my immediate attempt to demonstrate this movement is already failed. I can't bring my fucking arm. My shit is too big. I'm essentially some combination of two jack, two fat, and two immobile to demonstrate this, which is why I have purchased activated and brought the wife unit, and she is ready to demonstrate. Let's get to it. Okay folks, tip number one, and overhead, easy bar triceps extensions, is to make sure that you point your elbows in. So crystal is going to do this wrong initially. I just want you to do a behind the neck press essentially, and let your elbows flare out. Like, that's all good and well, and what I will say is the triceps will still get hit, but you get a lot of front-delt stuff. It could be front-delt limiting. You can have front-delt in another part of your program, and that's no good to us. So what we want to do is before we start moving, yep, you see how she angles for shit in. The elbows, you want to have like lines pointing out. You want to point those lines. Laser like forward at your gym crush. Ideally, you just need front of your gym crush. We're filming, stop laughing. I'm sorry, folks. Just don't listen sometimes. So elbows in, point it forward, and nice and slow in the way down. An elbow stay in as you go down. It's going to be tough because you're going to want to flare. And as she goes up, she's going to keep her elbows in and you can rack how many no problem. There is a temptation as you go up to how your elbows flare and what I'll say is this. Make sure on the way down, your elbows point as far forward as possible. On the way back up, it's okay if they flare a little it. It's not a super huge concern as long as on the next drop, you get an in and they point as far forward as possible. Now, if you are bigger and more jacked and have pecks and stupid shit in the way like I do, your idea of inmate and here. That's okay. As long as it's as far in as you can reason with put them. Sound good. Let's get to the next tip. Your first time on, sir. I'm Dr. Mike. Traditionally, the way people do most exercises like this, including skull crushers and overhead extensions. As I'll do what Crystal is about to demonstrate, which is the first movement they make comes backwards. They break at the elbows and go straight back. This is totally fine for a ton of people. You can press it back up, honey. Totally fine for most people. The problem is is for a lot of people. It's going to result in elbow pain. It's similar to if you start your squats and the first movement you do is breaking at the knee. Typically, for some people that can cause a lot of knee pain, same idea. It's a shearing mechanism. So what I found works really well to feel your triceps a ton and keep your elbow safe is the first movement of your elbows break that way. And then instantly right away, right after you come back. So it's a break forward movement first by a little bit and then you come back down. Just like that. Next tip is not just to go down, but to go down and reach back as far as possible. This offers us a huge loaded stretch component to the triceps. I know it trains the long head. I swear to fucking God. One more person. On this video, comments about the long head. I'm ending it all. That's it folks. No more YouTube videos. Gunshot to the head. Whatever the pull with your toe. Before we get to morbid, yes, the long head is a head of the triceps that works. There's other heads. It's equally as important. Long head training. You get a lot of in pulling movements anyway. So no big deal. But overall for the tricep. And of course, the long head. It's super good idea to stretch the living shit out of it, especially at the bottom. The way you accomplish this is instead of collapsing with your head and sort of doing this. You have to reach as far back as you can. It's slow. It's meticulous. It's painful for the triceps, which is good. And it will humble the living shit out of you with how much less weight you have to put on the bar. But if you guys have been following our pee for a bit or if it's your first time, you're on to the shit that like we're not about lifting heavy weights for no reason. We're about getting stronger in the most challenging positions that best train the muscles are crystal. Do it wrong real quick. You're a bro tilt that head down real far. Touch that hair line. Yeah, brother. It's kind of like a press or something. Yeah, yeah, you can lift a lot of weight like this. Won't feel a lot of triceps though. Now reach back. Really far. You'll notice where she contacts us like right on the traps. And then all the way up in one more good rep. You're reaching back as you're going down and that stretches the living dog should out of your triceps if you want to take a pause at the bottom. Feel it out for a second. That's even better. Give that some. All right. So the next cue, the next tip we have to feel your triceps more is to maximize the range of motion and to make sure that you are controlling the eccentric. On this exercise a nice slow three second eccentric is everything in this world. And if you go super deep and control the eccentric and take it all the corrections and tips for before, you're going to zap the living shit out of your triceps. Like when a fly gets into one of the electric zappers then you're like, oh, it's a fly. He's kind of cute and fuzzy and he's like, oh my fucking god is he dead? But then you look at the fly and he's like electric arcs are going around his six fucking limbs and he's like, I can never die. What doctor might get you have a stroke? Close. Let's take a look at this triceps stuff. So boom, first we're going to do it wrong. We're going to do it fast with a limited range of motion. But you can't even do limited roms. She's been around full roms so long. There we go. Yeah. Yeah, crank it out and use a hundred trillion pounds. No good. So let's fix it. Let's keep those elbows in. Let's take our time slow in super deep and up. Now those in slow and super deep just like that perfect. Thank you so much crystal. You know, this is my first time on camera with a pretty girl saying slow and super deep. If you get a fancy easy bar like this, this is nice or regular easy bar or a straight bar, you're going to ask the question of where and living fucking god, why put my hands? Is it here? Is it there? Is it everywhere? The answer is dealers choice. You're going to want to experiment with a bunch of different grips. My recommendation is to always use the monkey paw, the open palm. Like this, it seems to work better for not hurting elbows. If you want to wrap, that's totally cool. Where you put your hands is a matter of where for your structure. You feel that a fly just land in my face. Oh, fuck. It's really on your shoulder right now. In any case, where you feel it best. Is the correct answer. I could tell you bullshit, make belief by mechanics. It's definitely the angle of the human nature. I better hear. Fuck out of here with that shit. Everyone's built a little bit different. Yo, he built a different. Is that a meme? That's a meme. Right? It's got to be there again. So it's always fun until I get it hits by a car and dies and you're like, yes, he was pretty much built the same. In any case, two things. One, experiment. Different grips. Find which one seems to hit the triceps a ton while keeping your shoulders and elbows feeling good. Point two, that could change not just over the course of your life as you get more jacked and as you get leaner, things change. But it could also change sort of several months to several months. So you could use several months of overhead extensions variations with this script. And then you're like, ants get in a little stale. You try this script and it's also the correct answer. Just different. This is one of those positive versus rice questions. There's no correct answer. The correct answer is whatever you feel like, slash a bit of both. But never mix together. It's there. There's their dish where there's pasta and rice mixed together. In any case, folks, thanks for tuning in. We'll catch you guys next time for another one of these. You may ask, where did my life go? Where did my life go? Where did my life go? I think she left. You're a little bit too much. Don't fuck this up. Don't fuck it out. Do you understand? We're in fucking video. Don't fuck it up. You have a small fucking dick!

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pre-Dization. Today's weekly tip is don't chase progressions too much. What? But I thought we were supposed to be progressing. What is too much progress? Is that even a thing? Turns out yes. So are you supposed to hit PRs in the gym? PR by a rep here by five pounds here? Yes, absolutely. The core of the training process is to add reps and or load to the bar weekly, de-load repeat. However, that should not, cannot come at the expense of very good technique because if you have to get a rep with bad technique, you're lying to yourself about the progress that you're really making, which could be no progress or much less than you think you are. So if you're supposed to hit 10 reps on a squat, but you hit 12, hey PR, but the last two reps were total dog shit. Maybe you could have only hit 11 with a technique. So maybe 12 is an exaggeration. Next week, you're going to want to PR again. You're going to want to hit 13 reps, but you're going to only do 11. So you're just incrementally adding shitty reps to the end of your sets. No way, no. What you're at. End up doing is all of the training that you're doing if PRs are everything and you let your technique degrade at first and then try to match PRs after that. You get a real degradation of your stimulus of a T-raceo, which means that all of the work you do in the weeks after you hit a fake PR and try to match it, the stimulus is lower than how high the fatigue is because in order to grind out reps, you usually have to break their technique. You're not hitting the target muscles as much anymore. For example, in squats, you should be failing at your quads, but now you're trying to round your back and can't leave for you but up, and it's more glute training than you needed. It's more lower back training than you needed. It's a lot of systemic fatigue and your quads aren't getting any better of a workout because you're actually trying to avoid having them be the limiting factor. No good, no good, no good. So when you settle in for a hard set, yes, you should have your goal reps in mind. Okay, I want to get 13 reps, but every reps should be treated as its own with stellar technique every single time. And if you are unable to repeat two reps in a row with good technique, the set is over. If you underperform, that's okay. You can make up for it on the next set because performance is an average of all the sets of the exercise. If you underperform two sessions in a row, then you're just too fatigued to hit the PRs and it's time for a deal. No big deal. Remember, most times you're not progressing because you will the progress. Sometimes you have to have a lot of willpower to get to the progress that you need. However, most other times progress is just something that happens when you apply your willpower to getting good technique and seeing how many good technique reps you can get because if you get a lot of good technique, good technique reps more than last time than you've progressed. But if with good technique, you can't get the reps you're supposed to. You're not progressing your two fatigue. It's time to deal with this just no wrong answer. There, the honest with yourself always is good technique. And yes, try to hit the big PRs, but never at the expense of technique. Ever, ever, ever, ever, ever. And if you do it, you're terrible and you should be crying yourself to sleep every night. See you guys next time.

I'm Dr. Mike Osertill. I have all sorts of degrees and also my favorite ice cream flavor is Rocky Road. I'm kidding. Is that really even true? Do you know Rocky Road is really how do you know you're from Europe? We have that shit. Get out of here. You don't have a lot of them. Don't even start. Don't make this a year versus USA thing. I'm looking to do it. Motherfucker. That's it. We're out of NATO. This is Milo Wolf. He is almost finished with his PhD in sports science and he is the world's expert on range of motion. And he has been doing lots of research and reviewing even more research. But focuses on the lengthened parcels. I'm normally we don't see that sort of thing in the gym. Well, we see our shortened parcels where you get a lot to do this. We see mid-range parcels where you yell a lot into this. Lengthened parcels. What are they? Why would we want to be interested in doing them? And then lastly, how would we do them? Just the first one first so that I can make my bullshit jokes and make this video terrible. What are lengthened parcels? Specifically, how would you define them as a scientist and how would you define them in practical terms? Sure. As a scientist, lengthened parcels or partial repetitions, so a partial range of motion being performed at longer average muscle lengths than a four-engine motion. So in practical context, using the curl as an example is everyone does them. If you don't do them, you don't even look. It is absolutely agreed. A four-engine motion curl takes you from fully extension of the elbow to full flexion of the elbow. The average muscle length being trained for the biceps may be somewhere representative like hail. What about my stickies? If you were to do shortened parcels, that would be the tall path, for example, where you're biceps are going to train at shorter average muscle lengths or shortened parcels. If you were to do the bottom half, that would be lengthened parcels, because the biceps are on average being trained at more muscle lengths than they would be throughout a four-engine motion. So the average muscle length being trained might be somewhere around like hail. Got it. So lengthened parcels are the bottom x fraction of a lift. Lengthened parcels technically could be the bottom 80 percent, more commonly the bottom half. And sometimes the bottom third and some of these studies. Yep. That's what generally within these studies is what's being used is about one-third to two-thirds of four-engine motion. So as a rule thumb, if you're looking to apply the research findings that we have on making parcels, do you know what I'm training? Lightly a good place to store it is around one-third to two-thirds of four-up. Excellent. And okay, so that's what lengthened parcels are, and you can do them technically, I'm any exercise. Why would we be interested in doing them? There is now a sort of mounting body of evidence across different areas suggesting that lower muscle length training is superior to hypertrophy compared to shorter muscle length training. And there's plenty of evidence suggesting that's the case for, for example, partial reps at different muscle lengths. But for example, do even ball and half of curl versus the top half. And there's some evidence now suggesting that it's at least as effective or potentially more effective than a four-engine motion even. And there's what like a several percent difference in growth outcomes. It's not a huge difference that's in between three and eight percent with their adults. Totally. But look, look, it's a free 3-8 percent. My fuck, you go to the gym five days without any training. Yeah, down there, down somewhere. Anyways, how would you recommend people get into experimenting with length and partial? For a length and partial, you probably want about one-third to two-thirds of your four-engine motion. So about half. Correct. Yes. On average. But because there's a range, we can use that wiggle room to find something that is standardizable for you. For a lot of machines around one-third to two-thirds of your engine motion, you'll have a certain landmark you can sort of roll it into. So that every rep you get the same engine motion, it's very consistent, week to week it performs a very predictable reliable and it's great. Same with pushing exercises, same with isolation exercises. Otherwise, what you can do since you have wiggle room is just find some sort of bodily position that you can consistently replicate. Yes. For a lot of compound pressing exercises or pulling exercises for example, that can be for dumbbell rows, pulling your knees. Right. Just past your knees and a mettle. Same for ordials if you want to do the more deals. For pressing, it can be an elbow angle of about 90 degrees. Yes. I've helped with a foreshoulder pressing, press to just do your four-head and then exactly just most of your head for example. But you work really well. And so you can find certain features of certain landmarks or sort of positions that are pretty consistently repeatable. And since we have a range, and we don't really know if like quarter reps or better the half reps or vice versa, as long as you're somewhere within that ballpark, you're likely to get you in benefits of lathe and push-ups. Yes. What do you think about taking a back-to-a-theoretical level and saying it's the imposition of heavy challenging load under deep stretch that seems to be the likely by which this works. Agreed so far. Yep. Then maybe it's worth doing two other things. Thing one is to control your eccentric at the bottom third. So if you're coming down from a bench from here to here, you're like, yeah, whatever. Get, get now. As soon as it starts to get lower, you really take some time. It's the time spent generating tension is higher as a fraction of the total decent idea. Absolutely decent. And in fact, it's launched time. It's also by controlling the weight more. You're exerting more force. Yes. So it's not just time or attention. It's also how much tension are you producing at those almost. Yes. The integral of time and tension. So it's more time-tension. Great. More tension really total if you think about it. If you think times leading cuts it, man. Well, I mean, oh, you got a little allergy in there. You know what I mean? And then the second thing I can think of is maybe some pausing at the bottom because if you pause at the bottom in an actively-tensed position and in most exercises like you're, you have to actively-ten seal rip apart if you don't. Maybe like at the bottom of a leg press coming down slow. Getting to the bottom where you feel your quads being fucking pulled apart and down there, you go one, two, three, and then press out. Maybe that's another fun idea to try for sure. And the third thing I'd add potentially is an explosive concentric at the very start of the rep. Right. Let's say you're at long muscle lengths. You're the very ball of your leg press. Your quads are stretched. Being explosive at a sorry position isn't herely requiring higher active tension requirements or force put up requirements from your quads at almost yes. Do you think that's dangerous? Not here, and please. Okay. I think if you're used to it and again, gradually exposure is a huge thing with an sort of injury risk or pain. Ultimately, if you consistently hold your feet, don't do it. Right. But if it's a position you're used to and you can gradually get used to being exposed at a long position, it is likely to add to your high-purchased immune. So in a bench press, maybe if you're really strong and you're using crazy weights, don't pulse out of the bottom, but maybe get some fucking oomph and do it. And then when you get to the top, you're like, yeah, exactly. And then resist slow pause. Yep. Oh, you kind of let it die out. That's what I told her as well. Yes. There's a money for the Uber on your way out. Don't untie me. Don't speak to me. Don't look at me. Unbumbed. I love you. And that's been my one eye pretending to have a domineatrix hooker in our domicile. And by pretending to be me in the recalling, see you guys next time.

Everyone knows the ravages of partial reps. Done by not so intelligent bros all across the world. People have heard that they can destroy your physique, causing injury and poor gains. But I have news for you. There is a different kind of partial rep that might be able to give you even better gains in some cases than a full range repetition. Is this an unsolved mystery? Or just the world's shittiest intro to a video? Let's find out. Dumbbell flies are first on our list. Here's the thing with dumbbell flies. As with many of these other lifts, a lot of the best idea way to do partials is to avoid that dremel deep stretch. Why do people avoid the deep stretch? I can think of a few reasons. One is people erroneously think you can get more hurt in a deep stretch than you can at the top end of the contract. That's just not true. As long as you adjust the load, that takes us to our second problem by people do this. It's an ego thing. It look like I get it. I want to come to the gym and just do a few things. Load every single plate on every single machine so that people know that I'm strong. And then approach every single female of reproductive and to be completely honest, older than reproductive age. What's our grandma? Here's a time card, get in line because you feel like when I lose all the weight, these holes just line up. But then reality that never happens and all I do is pull my pack a little bit from using dumbbells that are way too heavy and put me into a way excessive of your motion because I was trying to do top end partial with too much weight. The other thing is going into the stretch kind of hurt. Like in the literal sense, it's super uncomfortable. But discomfort is a huge correlate of getting awesome gains. Think about it. Anytime you look really heavy, it's uncomfortable. You grow. Anytime you do high reps close to failure, it's uncomfortable. You grow. Anytime you do a ton of volume, it's uncomfortable and you grow. And the same thing is true with a stretch. So instead of doing dumbbells and a top end partial, we want to do dumbbells at a deep stretch and that means that we don't even have to come all the way up. So if you just do dumbbells in a bottom and partial situation, getting a crazy deep stretch at the bottom, holding for a second if you're really a man or a woman. We're not here to do genders today. Legitimately, bottom and partial's four flies are totally awesome. If you want to come up halfway, that's dope. Even a third of the way up has been proven in the research literature. Very low range of motion, bottom and stretch partials to grow a comparable amount of muscle mass to the four major motions. I'm not saying we're place any full range of motion lifts with these bottom and partial flies, but you can sure give it a shot in a mesocycle or two of your RPI purchase a sample. What's that? Why am I speaking out of the side of my mouth so that you can have an amazing time and tell people you do partial's because you're tough and cool in our bro, but do them as a right way. Next up is the bench press. Now, the bench press has only one true function, loading of the weight on the bar and standing around to see if anyone talks to you about how strong you are. Asdensibly you're also supposed to lift it, but that's not really so interesting. If you're going to lift it, you've got to do it the wrong way, which means coming down only half way and then locking out. Here are the benefits. You get to stretch your joints more, which is cool. Chiropractors need work. They're people too. The other thing is, you can lift a ton of weight. So not only are you seen next to the weight, they're you maybe you're going to use. You could even quote unquote, use the weight and people are impressed when they don't know what you're doing, but at least maybe you'll get a parking lot hand job or two. Probably just one. Probably just zero, but they'll think about it. And so using a ton of weight and because you're not getting into that old deep stretch there, you're not even growing as much muscle as you could. That is not a wise idea. The alternative is either to do the regular full range of motion bench, which is great, but also the bottom and bench press. Here's the thing about bottom and benching. You will all the way down for full pause and you come halfway up and come back down. This moves your chest. It doesn't quite hit your triceps as much, but if it's a chest day, this is the bench press to try. It's not better than full range of motion, but it is absolutely comparable in another part of the variation process. So you do full range of motion for a few months that get tired of that, do bottom and for a few months, and then repeat that process. The thing with that bottom and range of motion bench that I must tell you before we move on to the next lift is that getting a spotter is critical. Because here's the thing about the top end bench. If you feel like you're feeling on the top, you just kind of push it back to the rack or sort of lock it out and push it back. No problem. If you feel like you're failing at the bottom and bench, you ain't pushing that thing all the way up anymore. You're going to be stuck at the bottom and only one of two things is going to happen to you. You're going to have to dump the weight off to the side and be embarrassed. Or you dump it on your neck and then you think you're embarrassed but everything turns white all the sudden. And then you get to have it and God's like, yo, what up, big family, and you're like, I never thought you would sound like this. He's like, why? See some shit that's f***ed up. No, no, no, no, he sounds great. All right, trying to get into heaven and stuff, you're like, is P. Did he hear you? Like, P. Did he not daddy just some jail? Right, I got my analogy though. I'll be to you. You're working in with the girl. She's a nice looking girl. Maybe her and she looks like a window, you're a Katherine even, something fancy, old English. And the thing about Katherine is that she's using 20 pounds on the cable stack for tries to extension. You want to work in with her there and you want that sweetness. So what are you going to do? You're going to do full range of motion push downs? No, you're not that's crazy. She's going to think, no, she's going to know that you're weak. And she's going to be like, ah, I'm not totally glad to just go like, somebody else. I'm like, well, you're vocal fries so attractive. I want you even more now. You better like do something not like, ah, and press me. And what are you going to do? You're going to do top end bottom end gravity partial push downs. Maximum weight maximum ego. It's going to hurt your elbows. But you feel me ladies, the elbows not be only joined the body girl. Same with using hips later, Katherine or Wendy, where her how your name is. Because your boy's going to impress you so much. That you, you the names are not important. Girl, I'm a man of passion. However, consider this, the top end of most lifts is the least hyper-trophic part of lift. The bottom end, that deep, deep stretch in this case is the top end gravity keeps doing the thing and we're standing up. You want to stay in that stretch. So foringer motion push down is totally cool. But a push down that only goes a third or half of the way down is a big deal and can cause massive price of growth. No, you want to be a little user much weight. No, yes, Katherine will probably tell you like, I'm a totally guy because that only date like alpha. But you're going to get to be a thing this. I don't know. Is omega better than alpha Scott? Is that even better? Janice says yes, you get to be a beta wolf but hold up a hold up baby. I got this with your scheme and in the background, right? All the wounds are having sex in a pile of wolf sex because their alphas are whatever, but you're out there like in the darkness. What are you doing? Training with partials in the proper stretch position. So that at some point, one of the wolves is like, hey, are you a beta wolf like usual? And you're laughing. Two things to say to you, Mr. Wolf, first of all, you hit him with that side tricep. And he's like, oh snap, this is clearly an alpha side tricep. And the second thing that happens is you go, which is Wolf for a little bit. So, do some about these tricep. And then the last thing that happens is you're skipping off with Katherine into the sunset, we're clearly, you're going to be doing a lot of anal. One arm incline dumbbell curl. Let's you get a ton of focus on your bicep. Maximum mind muscle connection. Everything is prompt up total isolation. It's an incredible movement. The real downside is you have to do both arms separately, so it takes a lot longer. And you can't go do whatever next in your day that I have to do after training like sitting at home. Staring at a wall. Wondering is there meaning to this life? But there is. Big arms is the meaning of this life. We've already covered that 100 times in this channel. And you're going to get bigger arms if you go through a full range of motion in that curl than if you do parcels at the top. Parts of the top have a couple downsides. One, you need a gigantic dumbbell, which is cool, because it impresses Katherine. But it's not cool because what happens here is if you use a really heavy dumbbell. And you're doing it for a top and partial, the load increases a ton all the way and then gets easier. And then it increases a bunch and it gets easier. If you get close to failure, like you should be on all of your lifts, you can go a little too far and then you won't be able to save it. So you do kind of dump it and it pits someone's foot and then that's just a lawsuit. Or you go all the way and maybe snap your shit up. The better alternative here is to do the bottom end partial variation. Go all the way down for a full stretch to layer arm on the bench. And then come up halfway, back down, halfway, back down total control under a cent, total control on the cent. You're getting an awesome workout. You're getting a deep stretch. You're getting maximum hypertrophy. And what you can do is even superset this with the full range of motion version. So you do as many foreign motion curls as you can. And then you do as many parcels at the bottom half or bottom. The third is you can toast the muscle, put a cigar in your mouth, dry home in your core vet. The sun is setting. There's like skate these roller skate girls in the Miami and the cocaine. And I don't know where I was going with that. But it sounds nice. She was Mr. Someday. I'm going to grow up to be real tall. And then I tell you what, you're not getting my lunch money because I'll look down on you and say hey, now buddy, I'm just somehow turn this impression into Jordan Peterson. I either buddy. I mean, you can't just have my lunch money. That's an equitable transfer by force. And what do you know about force? Bucco? What the hell are we even talking about? We're talking about pull-ups. Because I got two things going on. One, I happen to be crowned a king, a short king. I'm not quite a short god like Jeff Nippard. But your boy has been working on it. How have I been working on it? Get the bigger back. Because somehow, man, you're going to make me taller. Why do? So if I can't have height, I'm going to have width. And the not best way to get width is to do the most common type of pull-up that you see at the gym, which is the mid-range pull-up. The mid-range pull-up avoids too very unfortunate point to the pull-up. You don't want to be associated with it if you have an ego. One is the bottom stretch because it's quite frankly it hurts down there. And two is the top contraction and get that chin close to the bar because that part's really hard. One part's really hard. One part hurts. I'll call that. We don't need any of that noise. What I'm going to do is I'm going to strap 1845's to my ship. And then I'm going to do this really quarter eighth maybe one sixteenth range of motion right in the middle where a minimum muscles are leveraged to be the strongest and also simultaneously receive the smallest input to hypertrophy. But again, Katherine and maybe even Wendy are maybe, it's a good lady name. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, I got this. Morgan. Yeah, what's up girl with maybe boy's name? You're a little bit rebel, huh? What am I even saying? If that bitch is around, she's sure going to appreciate the fact that you're a king with a whole bunch of weight stacked underneath your balls, which might work out well for you. But it's not going to help you grow a ton. What is going to help you grow is doing pull-ups through a full-ange emotion, which means at least getting that chin roughly to the bar, at least your nose are for the love of God at least your eyebrows. And going especially for that full deep stretch and maybe even a second worth of dead hang at the bottom. At the end of your pull-ups sets are even as a stand-alone exercise. Partials at the bottom end can be really, really smart because you get a big stretch there. You're going to get a huge hypertrophy stimulus and you can keep knocking out reps to the cows come home. I'm not so sure what happens when the cows come home. Are we like eating the cows? Are we milking them? Maybe the cow looks at you in a kind of way that you're like, oh my God, it kind of has like long eyelashes and I feel like his soul, my wife died on a farm years ago, a widow or her and, oh, Bessie here is going to have to satisfy my male urges with every hole. And think about that for a second, visualize it. It's happening. Don't resist, Bessie likes it. It's because the leg press, you can absolutely do at the top and range of motion, no problem. This is especially good if you want to load every single weight plate. In the entire gym, man, are you using that? Okay, I'm going to need that. For my 9,000 pound, three rep RM, top and partial leg press attempt because, what's another good girl's name, Chandler is over there. She's kind of seen me lift before. I need to show her a little I'm not going to be pumped out by doing one plate per side. That's for science-pilled nerdy, hypertrophy nerds. Dr. Mike Isrtov on the internet and he sucks. I'm going to be an alpha male bro. I'm going to do top and partial. Yeah, my knees will hurt. Yeah, I might have to actually do them with my hands because if I let my hands go, I die, but I'm willing to accept the risk because the human vagina, the other hand, you could be what we call in the industry and in the scientific literature, a true-pimp team that is registered trademark and do bottom and partials. These shits stretch your quads and fry your quads and accumulate so much metabolite in your quads. It is your torture. You got to be careful with these, get you a spotter and when you're getting close to failure, you can potentially even use your hands to rack the weight. Careful because they will fry you out when it's a fail of the bottom and partial, there's not going anywhere after that. But it is an amazing look. It's especially good to do at the end of some of your four range of motion sets. When you get close to failure at a four range of motion set, what you can do is crank out as many bottom and partial as, and I'm going to tell you this is kind of weird, but it works until you actually just can't move your knee joint at all because your quads are dead. If you get spotters for this and then as soon as you're done, they take the weights off and then you use your hands to help rack or you just kind of pure yourself out of the machine. There's an excellent finisher that you can try any day of the week. If you try it by yourself, you might depend on the leg press, which is an attirable thing because Chandler might come rescue you. And she's like, oh my god, I'm so glad I got you out of the machine. Do you like me? Anything? I could use like mouth to mouth and she's like, what if I just do it with my janitor instead? And you're like, am I in a dream? Yes, that'll never happen in real life. Is the push-up one of the most mangled technique lifts in all of history the answer is absolutely yes? When people tell you they can do XYZ number of push-ups, they are almost certainly implicitly lying because they don't know what a real push-up is. A real push-up is when you go all the way to locking out your elbows and shoulders and come all the way down for a gentle touch of the chest to the ground. But that's really hard to do. So what I want you to do instead is to do the push-up either at the top end all the way from lack out to about halfway down. Right when it starts to feel difficult and can commentantly effective, you don't want any of that. Never, ever let them see you struggle at the gym, Pimp. You want to make people seem that either you're the world's strongest man, or you just never tried and could be the world's strongest man if you just tried. Top end push-ups are amazing for not really causing a whole lot more gains. Then you might have been interested in full range of motion push-ups are better. But if you're real massacist and you notice I am in my day job position on my knees because I love massacism, yes that does mean I can say things like, mommy and it's very well practiced. If you were in my position and I mean literally on your knees, cowering like the pathetic little you are, you can do push-ups that are modified in two ways. Bottom end partials keep in that deep stretch and only coming up halfway are brutal and especially effective after a full range of motion set to where you can't even move. And then you have to methodically roll off to the side because you can't actually use your arms to push up any more even to be in a decent standing position where you can look a man in the eyes with your chest up and say, and bonus round you can use blocks like these to get yourself bigger of a stretch. So that when you were at a deficit you were already in a very deep stretch. Partial position you just go up six inches and back down, go up six inches and back down, go up six inches and back down which I have no idea what that refers to because you buoyant pack in any more than one and a half true. I literally have a micro penis. This is a full admission. When you're doing the leg curl, it's tempting to do just the middle part of the movement. You're your strongest there. It avoids having to get the peak contraction. It avoids having to have a big stretch. It's more comfortable. You can use more weight. And honestly it's a fine way to do leg curl. But in the seated leg curl we have a big advantage. We can put a ton of tension into that top end range of motion for that all-for-goo stretch. It is especially a good idea to do this at the end of your straight sets. Not to put a sexual orientation on it. But why are they called straight sets? Do they come in and get hit out at the gate bar and then like, okay, but I really like your look, but honestly I'm just book and straight row. And I'm like, okay, like you're sure you don't want to like go to back room and I'm like, find out look, well, guess I had that three beers. They're not alcoholic beers, but you know, we could get it poppin. Wait a minute, why am I reciting what I did last Wednesday? At the end of your leg curl sets with a full range of motion, try some of these length and parcels. If you try really hard, the ghost of Coach Milo Wolf might appear and say something European to you and you was a bonnick. Coach Milo Wolf is prone to do on occasion. Worst case scenario, it's going to hurt a lot. Best case scenario is you're also going to get jacked. And remember, you were in the gym for two things to get hurt in a way that doesn't hurt you, but fix this some of that emotional trauma that lends the third grade cost when she's like, I saw you wrote me a note thanking your leg, have a crush on me, but you're like, ugly. I'll never forget that shit Lindsay is why I fucking live. Sorry, where was I? Guys, thank you so much for sticking with us. If you're still here, a lot of fun today. Maybe we learn some things. Here's the deal. There's nothing wrong with the top end parcels for some vibes. It's totally cool. I'll love it respect. Full range of motion is still king, but if you want to integrate some length and parcels, where the muscle is at the longer length, that's a really, really awesome idea. The big thing is though, is the science says it works generally. How do you know it works for you specifically? Is on sensation? Is the muscle feeling like it's getting crazy stretched? Is it feeling like there's a ton of pain in the muscle belly? Do you get more fatigued after the usual? Are you getting more sore? If you're checking a lot of those boxes, even just some of them, you're well on your way. If you try a partial dairy, it kind of feels like math and it kind of doesn't seem to do anything. Just go back to full range of motion or choose it in for an actress. Anyway, if I ever see you at the gym for real for real, you better make in these vases and doing this clown show that I do. Then we can be friends and then we'll come over your house. We can play Sega Genesis. If you have a super Nintendo that works too. See you next time.

I'm good. I know a vomit I see one. I was just a cough. I don't like my legs dude. That was good. I'm good. What up, Warping YouTube. I am here with Bree. Who is two things? One. A current champion. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. Who is two things? One. A current champion of NPC show. Who will be getting a pro card soon? And two, still my training partner. You guys recently saw a video of me and her training together. Unfortunately, my late training is over with for my prep. I have a show in about a week and a half. So she has to train legs alone today. But me and Dr. Micah are here for moral supports. She'll cheer her on and put her through hell. Because she has about how many more weeks of hard training before? And it's what shows it you say? Yeah, you say. So three weeks until USA, this means she has about four or five hard leg sessions left. Want to want to wish you all we're doing here with us? Yeah. I'm excited. Mic. Looking good. Thanks. Thanks to you, GSP. Revenue that shit. Folks, there's a mentality that bodybuilders close to contest have to put arm in body. And then mentality, you may think is a lion. Wolf, no tiger, no bear, get out of here. Minutes your docks. Why? Because the minutes your docks are not very big. It doesn't have a lot to go with. So it has to compensate with anger. Anger that as it's pushed further gets more intense. A breathe try to come up closer to me. That's how we're doing shit today. Kick it. So breathe my training partner, meaning I do her training for her. We oftentimes train the same things. And like I said, we talked about this in the other video. We did together. Sometimes at the ad in volume for her or she will add in other muscle groups at the day. She does a five day split and I do a six day, but we always train together. So today what she's doing is a lion hamchen curl. It's her lighter hamchen day. So we're actually doing an intensity technique on this one. We're a myorematche. She'll have three or four sets of the Leica Program. Three or four sets first set. She's going to get the tone and the next two sets she'll rep match. Probably going to suck, but she's here. She's ready for it. Yes. Good low. Good low. Good. Now you might wrap 15. I see a couple of sets. Okay, that's doable. I think. Yeah. That was a good. I like this machine. Yeah, it's very slight. It's very smooth. It's very smooth. Wow. Your hair looks dope. Awesome. I'm pretty much proud of it. We just watched Premiere last night. How you doing? It's hard. Fucking summer. I'm proud of Princess shit. For real. Two more. Two more. Two more. Two more. Yep. Oh, really. Stop. Nice little good one. Get your shit together. Let's get three. Oh yeah. Yeah. Gentle. Yeah. Fuck yeah. That's good. That's good. That's crazy. How many sets we do in a coach? One more. One more. Yeah. Yep. Two more. One more. One more. One more. And you're dressed. Good. Good. Slow. Three. One more. Good. Slow. Three. Three more. Good. I think I got three more. Good. I'm done. How are you, too? One. Good. Two more. Good. Good boss. Good boss. Hit it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There you go. That's nice. Done. Yeah. Good shit. Good shit, right? Good shit, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. For those of you folks that are in the pop culture, at one point Cardi B claim that you neither cook nor cleans. Interestingly enough, that's what Cardi B and this Atlantis hack leg press select Christ combo. Haven't commented. No. It does not cook. No. It does not clean. It's a bit of a wonder. Internet of science. Jim and now is a permanent feature in our home. It's so wonderful and new. No one but Scott the video guy has broken it in yet. And since he doesn't count because he's always behind the camera, Bree is going to take a shot at the title. Folks will she survive? Let's find out. Probably like four, maybe five sets. Ultra deep. Super squats. Sets of 10 to 20. Let's make it. There you go. It looks like it's like a stealth helicopter was a machine. This is fucked up man. Yeah. We'll be good for it. Oh, we're going to come up. Four, four, three big rest and then if you get two, three more. Good. Come on. Yes. Slow is that you're going to do another. Wow. It's still sweaty. You can try for one of those on there. It's like you fucking with them. I think it's good I do. We're going to get you more in your motion. Let's make sure. Sorry. It's just fucked up. I know. Yeah. So we put a pad under this. Great piece of equipment, but we're all kind of super ultra full ROM addicts here. Put a little pad in here. It gives us an extra. And Mike, Dr. Mike's penis world. This is six inches. It's an extra six inches. And let's brigo deeper and. I think I've said enough. Maybe too much. Oh my god. Oh my god. One more. Go. Slow. Shull. Oh, it's that three. Three. Keep breathing again. Keep the foot. Oh, see you in half inch. Half inch. Half inch not a whole inch. You're good. Better. I'm not breaking. Yeah. Breathe. Breathe. Breathe. Breathe. One more. One more. One more. One more. Knock him out. You got three. Great champion. Shit. One more. Three. Control. You're in charge. Let's go. There's no. Stop. Slow. Is that you're going to do another? Control. Touch gentle. Good. Oh. Good. Good. Good. Good. That's what he's doing for my kneecaps. Good. Good. Good. Good. Yeah. It's like, I like this way. That is the fucking hacks. I told you. It's like my car. It's all quite no need. It's not an amazing. Yeah. Yeah. The second me and Mikey is this. I'll be a see. It's like one of my favorite leg pieces. Immediately. Yeah. Vans and I'll be a see again. What you go. Vans. Let's go. Let's go. Coyne. Let's go. Fizz eat. Coyne. Procard. Yay. This is your training for your procard in Michigan. A wall places. Yeah. Me. I always hit a wall. Me too. And it's it comes. I don't feel it coming on. Yeah. It might basically finish my session for me earlier. It's like time to go. I'm like, okay. He's like, archworm like, you're right. I can't. I can't. Shek come on. Who. Oh shit. Come on. Wow. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Awesome. Five. Three. All fucking day. One. One. Oh, it's supposed to hurt. Push, breathe. Three, two more. Let's get your shit together. Up. Lock it up. One more breathe. Yeah, gentle touch, gentle touch. Go! Three, take a nice long breath. Three, three, big, great. Get it. You're doing it. Oh, yeah. Three, big. Let's go. You do this yourself. Yep. Yeah. Go! Three, get it together. One more. Go. Gentle. Press. Speed. Up, up, up, up, up. Slow. Slow. Yes, gentle. Oh, yeah. So your first sets are like Dr. Mike Sets, and the last one was like a Charlie Johnson. Oh, my, try to learn. I'm not even the first sets. I'm a little shim. Do we have a... I'm good. I know a lot about that. I was just a cough. Oh, my god, my fucking legs dude. That was good. You pushed out on those. This looks like an anti-vaping commercial. You really does. What we're doing, did to this camera. We're on camera. Dude, I might hold body is fucking wet right now. She might be sweating this much. A minute ago, Bree was hanging out with her friends at the movie theater, hitting this fake, and now look what happened. Folks, listen to me when I say this, nicotine kills. Hey, girl, you're trying to hit that shit. I'm better now. Oh, yeah, no, dude. Welcome to RPG. You want to have hip thrice up, not checking it out? Yeah, absolutely. Dude, I've been doing 25 on that fucking machine. Yeah, I know. Don't look at me. I don't know what's going on. I don't know. I know how to work with prisoners. You never hear their complaints for help. I'm a Drake that shit. Can't help you. As I mentioned earlier, oftentimes we'll throw extra volume in for Bree. I don't need more good volume. Bree does to an extent. So on both of her leg sessions, we add in either a London thrust variation. We did have lunges today, but she had a little issue in the back portion of her Hampshire word. She's weak. So we are going to do a thruss today, probably barbell, since we don't really have to be in the variation of that here. She uses a machine of dragon there that is comparable to this. So she'll be elevated, shoulders up on there. And I got her a little pad for her. Her nice and frail waist because you're so lean. But it's going to be a giant set. 50 reps total. We might take some weight off. We'll see. This should be fine. Two. Let's get 10. Three. Four. Five. Way to hold that peak. Six. Seven. Eight. Nine. Ten. Good shit. Trust up. I made an audible because the machine is a little different. We're doing actual hip truss. But we're just going to do a superset. The lunges, she decided felt pretty good. So we're going to do bodyweight lunges after we do about 10 to 15 on the hip thrust. She's going to do two sets here. Thought I'll make up for the volume that we're going to do on the machine. If trust that we do dragon layer. She's enjoying it so far. So let's see how this next thing goes. Don't give over too much to the upright. Yeah, there you go. Turn all the way back. Slow around the way down. Yeah, there you go. There you go. Good. Long steps. Go, go, go. Yep. And all the way back and you're done. Quick. Quick. Come on. You should take it easy. Breathe that way. You can lose and fucking style. Go. Go. Go. Up. Good. Control. You do that. Great. This is easy fucking work. Another step. Good. Stay upright. Come on. Stay upright. Yes. Two more steps in your done. Let's go. Let's go. Stay upright. Good. Last one. Long step. Stay upright. The whole way through. One more shit per cent. One more. You're good. That hair makes everything you do look so cool. I feel like that just says athlete. You're like, oh, win. But I'll complain every step of the way. Every step of the way. But I'm going to do it. Completing and making jokes about how miserable I am makes it better. That makes it better. Yep. Eight. One more. Nice. Nice. Nice. Nice. I mean, you feel like everything is going to throw out. Is that? That pressure on my fucking style. Yeah. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. 25. Slow. I'm a decent. Yes. 26. Sinjeon. Let's go. 27. Good. 28. Don't you push off with that fucking hand. 28. Finish up strong. 29. One more. Up. Yes. Yes. You did it. We're all done. How long was that fucking workout? That felt like you went by way too fast. 45 minutes to an hour. Yeah. Yeah. You want us to take longer? We can add some shit. Fuck now. You're good. Straight up saying the wrong shit. Three. Good workout. Great. Great session. Sweet. Good job, Bree. It's me, Nwitch. Who is Bree? You lost. Who? What's up? She is. Now folks, I know some of you are thinking before we outro this that like we set the shop. legit. She just laid down after lunges and hasn't gotten up. We got to do an outro at some point so we just did it with her lying down. It's real life over here. Rana Somsjim. Jared Feather. Rianny Terry. Out here doing it. Trying to throw that pro card. Shit has to get done. Hell yeah. I'm going to stock your crystal back there too off camera and shit. Hi honey. Anyway, see you guys next time.

up. Oh, breathe. Almost got to in your gun. Sheep. Sheep again but go slow or we don't count him. Now. I'm going to do it. Alright folks, we are recording this video the day after Valentine's Day. So here's how Cuban by the fuck of putting his arrows in his sheet. Blue offers a little dumb ass baby wings. And looking from the fuckers' shoe and he looked at me and he's like, oh, you're married already. And I'm like, yep, so Dr. Crystal, he's like, what up? I'm like, what up? Alright, you're good. Keep flowing. Flying on. Here's Max Shit. Then he flew over to Mr. Jared Feather. And he was like, ha ha, I'm a zapped this dumb ass. And Jared was like, just grab the arrow. A few Vegeta theme. Not today, cute bit. And then he just crunched it in the arrow fell. The cube is like, holy shit. He flew away. And then Cuban flew his dumb little ass to these two lovebirds who are clearly in insane romantic love. Actually, they weren't until yesterday. When Valentine's Day, they were actually standing like this. Like, she was in front and he wasn't in the back. The cube is like, oh, watch this. Damn. I went to both of them. They're like, oh god. And then they got the arrow out of it. Oh god, we're in love with each other. Let's celebrate how real lovers do. What is the quintessential unity in love? Every really romantic movie, at least two here. Hey, hey, Jerry, you beat me two. Hey, and oh, oh, I have evidence. Titanic. What happened to them on the floor? Nothing good. Romeo and Juliet, that turned out okay, didn't it? Great. It did. Today, couples like day. We're on a journey. We're on a journey. I'm a match made in Kevin. But I don't see any heaven around. I see a big ass dragon back there. They're looking like an angel. We're the fuck as cute when you need him. Cuban is taking the day off. Works so hard on Valentine's Day. Jerry, we're going to step in and get warm. And you guys feeling loving the air? We're about to die together. Oh, that's that romance. Holly with time. Hit it. First, seated leg curls. I don't know what I'm doing this. My rep match sets as usual. Because in our opinion, isolation exercises like leg curls, you're in the old already. It's easy to rest in the machine. It's easy to approach failure multiple times. With my rep match as a reminder, or those of you who do the channel, would you one set very close to failure? That's the baseline set. That set number one. The first set is the straight set. The set after is a my rep set where you take those 5 to 10 seconds breaks in order to get those totals. That'll be the theme for kind of the rest of this work. But don't tell our lovely two contestants because, uh, yes, kind of bad news for that. Fuck that. I just tell them what to do. Let's get it done. Touch it. 22. 23. I'm trying to hit the back. 24. One more. 25. I'm actually like a wrap. Very good. So 110 pounds. 25 reps. Remember that, okay? 4. 1. 1. Let's go. 5. Back. 1. Yeah, that's wrong. Amstring. J.K. We're going to change the weight out. 1. Come on. Go on. Damn it. Rest. Reef. Push yourself back. Kips back into the pad. Good. 3. 3. Go. 1. 2. Come on, Kevin. 4. Go. Go. Oh, yeah. Rest. Do it when you're done. Up. Yep. One good one. Smash it. Yes. Slow. Trow it to the end. That's it. Great stuff. Beautiful. 3. 2 more. Go. Oh. Oh. Press. Press. We won't count that one. Take a breath or two. You can't do it. You won't count that one. Hit it. Oh. 1. That was good. Hit it hard. Yes. Slow. And that's it. 50. Beautiful. Get me out. 2. 2. Go. Go. Go. Go. Press. Do it when you're done. Up. Yep. One good one. Smash it. Yes. Slow. That's it. Great stuff. You don't want to hear sounds. Go. Go. Yes. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Slow. Rack. That's it. Good. Stop. That is great stuff. You guys feel good? So we're done, right? You guys see this last year. You guys see that last year. Everybody got jokes until the hacksawating starts. Go. We're not nice people, Jared and I. Everyone knows this. So we've been doing a lot of pretty heavy hacks. Today these folks are going to do something much harder than that. They are going to be doing hacksawats. We're going to try to pick a load that they can wire up their way. Per each set to about 15 to 25 reps. When you're going to start with a weight that they can do 20 to 25 reps with. Keep that weight pretty close to the same. And then fatigue will break them down from there. My rep traditional style this time. So even the first set is going to have two or three little five to ten second breaks. So you get a little bit more wind in their sales. So again for another few reps. This gets us close to failure multiple times throughout the set. Which means after this we just don't have a lot left to do. We're still going to do some shit. But we like at RP to take an exercise and really build a fucking dog shit out of it. Do milk, dog shit, is that where dog shit comes from? You guys know what I'm saying? Really do it right. Really do it intensely. So you don't have to do 50 different exercises in a gym. And when you pull up your shit on your, you know what I'm saying? RP training at the shit will say tax once and you're not thinking oh man. Wish I could do more. You're thinking back four sets of this. That's find out how the flow's like. One lower slow slow slow up. One more go right now slow slow control pause up. Yeah, oh, breathe almost got 200 done shit. Begin but go slow or we don't count them now slow patrol there. Just up deep up last one go slow slow slow slow. Pressure. Up stand up. Yeah, yeah, wrap. Wrap. Wrap you're good. Oh, fuck. 20 half. All day today all fucking day slow. Up strong. Again down slow slow slow slow slow. Stop stop. Stop. I'm doing this all by myself. Go go go go breathe don't go anywhere. Don't go anywhere. Lock your legs out. Lock it out slow. Up. One more go slow slow pause speed. Go go go go go go. Wrap. Up a little. Good. So this is about in the third mince physique guy. We've had on the channel that's bigger than a classic physique bro. Mince physique bro, classic physique bro. If you, he's going to do a classic this year. We turn pro mince physique. If you guys follow bodybuilding at all in the comments, let us know. Should mince physique have a fucking wake cap. What is this shit? He doesn't even train arms. He doesn't even train them. Yeah, they are. That's right. The last time we train arms was our last video. Fuck. Up. Strong. Push it up. One more. Slow on the way down. Begin right now. Slow. Slow. Slow. Pause. Speed. Rest. Breathe. Don't go anywhere. Almost there. Three reps left. I want him to go one at a time. Can I swear to God, bro, two fast away. He's my fucking fuckers. I'm straight. I have an account. It goes away. Begin. One rep. Slow. Control. Pause. Up. Up. Another. Go. Grab the handles. You're still in charge. Almost there. Slow. You can't slow. Out of your neck. You go. You. You. And one last one. Now. Right now. Slow control. Slow control. Slow control. Slow control. Deal. Deal. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Raps. You're a little bit. You're a little bit. That little thing. That little thing. There you go. Perfect. Huh. Good job here. Thank you. Doesn't matter. Push. Push. Push. With. Reve. Almost done. Last one here. Pause. Up. Strengths. Go. Right. You can rack it. You can rack it. Very amazing set. Amazing set. Amazing set. You might be less forceful out of the hole on the first few. Just so you can feel for keeping your heel down. Okay. So I'm going to give a shit about you being as fast as possible on the way up. Just really push through your entire foot so that we whenever it gets hard. You can focus on doing that. Okay. You want to, you want like probably five reps pass where you should have last night because you're going up on your heel again. Yeah. So we're here. Oh, I felt it's a little bit too hot. We're here. We're here. We're here. We're here. We're here. We're here. We're like I said, we're saying you just fucking sit in the bottom. I'm done. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. You got three more. Wait off. Okay. Okay. You got three more. Wait off. Okay. Okay. You got three more. Wait off. Three more reps. Three more reps. Begin down slowly though. Slowly. Slowly. Yes. Awesome. Up. One. Down. Slow. Still with a Kevin. Let's go. Slow. Slow. Watch. Watch. Watch. Up. Up. One more. Yep. Last one. Slow. Right. If I can get you to do another. Begin. Slow. Slow. Slow. Pots. Wait. Wait. Right. Up. You don't use that. Press. Good. Get out of it. Three. Good. Better. Way better. That's the worst thing to happen. Right. Yeah. Two more reps. We're on a night even here. Just. Yeah. I don't feel like I'm here. All things to consider do that was fucking sweet. You're good. Now these two young lovers are going to consummate their relationship. Oh, look. That was a heart. With the usual. We're not going to do anything non-traditional. Love in almost every culture universally is consumated by doing lung squat supersets. Yep. As many lunges as you can pretty much. It's fat. Look it up. Good. Just go and go. You can just go to the line. All right. So. We're going to do walking lunges. This way and back. When you feel nice and queasy, we'll tell you to come back. As soon as you come back. You can put your entire body on here or you can do a half. No big deal. Slightly wider stance. Hands up. Slow squat. Now watch this. As I squat. My pelvis is going to tilt backwards. My chest stays completely vertical the entire time. And I'm pushing my quads forward as I'm staying on my heels. Such that at the bottom I do one of these and hold for a second. And then come up. Sound good. So with your lunges. Stay nice and upright because we're trying to get the use some loop but also some quad focus. Nice and upright. Take a nice long step. Slowly bring your knee gently to touch the ground. Most of your weight on your front foot. Come up. And then begin again. Four more steps. One. Two. Three. Don't you touch your front legs. Slow. Up. Up. Right in. This is your last set of the day. Good stance. Nice and wide. Hands up. Or cross your chest. You hit. Slow. Up. Great. Down. Pain is on the fucking menu. Slow. Up. Down. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Up. Go. One more. Slow. Slow. Come on. Come on. Come on. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Yes. Keep it going. No rest. Nobody said rest. Good. Slow on the way down. Slowly. Good. Just down. Slow on the way down. Again. Again. Good. One more. One more step. Come on. Slow. Up. Shake your stance. This is it. Hey Kevin, you're trying to work today. We're trying to just take it easy. What do you think? Working. That's working. Big chest. Big chest. Up. Almost there. Keep going. Keep going. Nobody said give up. Everything you got. Everything you got. All right. Up. Again. Down. You still got a shit. Going to strike motherfuckers. Up. Again. Down. Down. Slow. Slow. Control. Up. One more. Go. Nobody said pause. Nobody said pause. Rest. You got two more now. Up. Again. Down. Slow. Wait. Wait. Keep your chest up. Wait. Keep waiting. Big chest. Big chest. Big chest. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up.πουad done shot. Spucking. It is holy crap. You guys came in and went to work. We've traded a handful of couples now. And a lot of them do really well. You guys are at the tip of the spear. Colour me impressed. Just incredible effort, incredible effort all around. I just tried to pack Kevin on the back for a good job. And my hand just soaked in sweat. This man is at 100% sweaty mess. All I have to say to you now, sorry Jared, go ahead. They're all the time actually. They're training partners. All as per since you're dying, compared to normal, you guys do like how many exercises for legness. We do at least like seven or eight. Seven or eight exercises, how many sets? Like usually three to five, three to five, one to seven to eight exercises. Today we did three to total exercise. Three to total exercises, which just three sets four sets each. You guys want to do more? Four to five, four to five. Four to five. All right. So what I thought? All right. Now, the only thing I have has a message for both you, the viewer and YouTube is go home and make sweet love. That's cute, but in 10 minutes. It can't be a game. Let's don't get a hand in whatever you get off the ground. You could just do it here. Fuck it as drag as leg, baby. We're Gucci. See you guys next time.

Hit it, go, go, go, go, slow, slow, slow, pause. I did some RP bodybuilding today. Stick with me. Stick with me almost there. This is gonna be a bad week. Folks, we are in Cookville, Tennessee at CrossFit Mayhem. Me, as you know, I'm pretty good at CrossFit. I'm up there. I'm gonna come and say it. I'm in the conversation. Top 10, there's it. I was gonna say it. Top 10. Okay. This is Rich Frowning. He's essentially the best of all time. Certainly in the conversation for the best of all time. Me, I'm just the best kind of right now, but he's a legend. I'll be taking a back seat. Tyler here made an enormous mistake. He will learn that very soon. He jumped into this workout. You've worked out here. You worked out here. Oh, you barely had that. He's not much so fit. He's running around here. He's got his shirt off. He did. He's ready. We're gonna even start a training. In any case, Rich is gonna take a shot at the title to do an RP style hypertrophy quadriceps workout. Which actually only means we do two exercises. Because it is a CrossFit gym. We are bereft of machines, but we have one squat rack and a whole lot of open space. Do you sharp folks out there, probably thinking we're gonna do a whole lot of high rep squats and a whole lot of high rep lunges. We're gonna do a super-setted similarly to high rep squats. And that would be crazy of you to think. What an insane idea let's go do it. All right, so first rule is keep your chest up higher. The entire time, especially at the bottom. Excellent. Second rule is at the bottom. Very bottom. When you get all the way down, stop for two whole full second is each in every time. Perfect. Rule number three is descend. Three times. Lower than that. So you're gonna milk the descent. Yes, excellent. Good, just like that. Slow. Warmer's have been done. The guys are ready to go. The idea here is to do squats for lots and lots of reps. People talk about 20 reps squats. It's kind of the way to build legs. That used to be a thing people talk about all the time. They're probably more efficient ways to do this. But since this is a CrossFit gym, I think it's a good idea to do that. They're probably more efficient ways to do this. But since this is a CrossFit gym, I'm winning room. We are here for the pain. And by we, I mean these guys. 16, one more. Chest up. Up. 17, rest breathe a little bit. Don't go anywhere. Let's finish up these big three. Whenever you're ready. Awesome. One. Stay upright. Stop. Up. Two. One last one. Let's finish out these 20. Hit it. Chest up. Slow. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Rack. Fordless. You know, yeah. Whenever you're ready. Wait a control. Wow. Tyler, that was excellent. One. Again, slow. I'm going to be really insistent that the guys go down slow. But they keep their chest up. But they take full pauses at the bottom. And then they're trying to use their quads by not just squatting back and down. But by squatting back and down and then letting the knees drift forward on the way down. Staying as upright as possible. It's going to put maximum tension on the quads. It's going to be a. It's going to say bad time, but that's not really the case. It's going to be a good bad time. These guys are an excellent cardio shape. So if we want to my a rep this, which means at the top of after you do five or six squats and get tired. If you want to sit here for about three or four seconds, take a cup of breaths. And then begin again. Who does? We'll agree between the two of us one at the time to rack. Up. Good technique. Slow. Chest up. Pause. Up. Rack. Beautiful. And that's one here in the bank. How are you feeling? Yep. It's a good answer. Yep. Feeling. Feeling. So you'll sound the clans taking my time. Slow. Control. Pause. Up. Last one coming up. Right now. Right now. Right now. Go, go, go, go. Slow. Control. Chest up. Stand up. Up. Rack. Good. Good. Good. Back. Feeling your back on this, yeah? Yeah. You're like, yep, bad. Just tired. Yeah. Ideally, we don't do barbell squats for sets of 20. Why? One of the reasons is that other factors than the quadriceps tend to become limiting. These folks are international elite level crossfitters. So there are lungs, you notice, did not become limiting. They never even breathe heavy during sets of 20 in the squat. Which is kind of crazy. Think about it. At all. However, their backs did start to take over. And it became more of a lower back limited exercise. And a glute limited exercise then it was a quad-limit exercise. So what we did was we lowered the weight here. And we put the guys up on plates. Put heels under the plates. You can stay more upright. You can get your knees more forward. It becomes more limiting by the quad. Then it would be by the lower back by the mid back. By even the upper back after a while. That's a 20. Just holding the bar. It becomes irritating for the arms and the traps. You can lose some function in your arms for a second. There's the nerves get a little caught up in there. It's rough. If you only have a rack at home, you only have a barbell. Can you do this for hypertrophy? Yeah, sure can. It will absolutely grow everything in your lower body. Most of your quad glutes in lower back. But with these little modifications, we can get it to be just a little bit better. Up. 18. Say up right. Go go go slow. Slow. Pause. Up. Again, last one. Hit it. Go go go go go slow. Slow. Slow. Pause. Up. Back. Beautiful. You. A little better for the back. Better. Yeah. Excellent. Good. Good. Good. Again. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Up. Last one. Make it perfect. Slow. Slow. Excellent. Up. Rack. There you go. One. One. Up. Breathe. Good technique. Good technique. Only. If you have to dump no worries. 300 done. Hit it. Slow. Up. One. Slow. Up. Two. Last one. Think chest. Slow. Up. How are you, Rack? How are you? Last set of this exercise. Chest. One. Move it with your legs. Not with your back. Stand straight up when you get out of the hole. Up straight. Two. Three more. And three. Good. Two more. Up. One more. Stand straight up. Rack. Okay. Nope. One will be messed up to the problem. The guys have done five sets of 20 in the squat, which is fun to think about. And now it's time for the lunch to squat superset to really finish out the quads. Really finish cooking everything. They're going to have a weighted best son because holding weights for that many lunges is annoying. We're going to talk about how to do the lunch technique in a second. Let's get to it. Lunges. Hey, here's what we're going to do. Good news, bad news. We have a particular way of doing lunges at our pee. It's going to suck more probably. You're going to hate them more. Good. So again, the focus is on quality instead of just quantity. Every single lunch step. You just want to keep a couple rules. One is within reason, step nice and long. So none of this, this, right? Long step. And especially on the way down. Keeping your upper body upright. If you have to keep forward a little bit on the way up, not a big deal, but none of this bullshit like that. So a bad lunge wrap would look like this. And then a good one would look like that. Alternating. No rush. We're just going to do this shit at the same time. If you guys are okay with that, little friendly competition between the boys. Then we'll get in the locker room later. No, not takers. Every day in locker room. 40 steps. And then after 40 steps, set up your squat set up. Slow and controlled up. Slow and controlled up. No rest at the top. If you have to rest, you rest in a full bottom position. 20 squats. 40 slow quality lunges. 20 squats. And if you guys can time them to do roughly the same. Great. If not, no big deal. Slow or on the way down, gentlemen. Excellent. 14. Slow or 15. Good. Especially on the descent. 16. 40 turn. Phase four. Hands up. Squats. One. 19. 20 reps. Breathe for a second. I bet feel. Y