% and that's summarized by a men and all systems between 2017 by Ross and colleagues, which want to be like a fucking chat GPT. But there is a giant and they're right here next to me. See you afterwards. I'll see you now even. Shit. Different type of video. Yeah. We're going to split the script. This has actually been for our only fans. They love a technical introduction. Oh, yes. It's a nice script. Most adult videos. They just get ready for a course to align. I want to, I want to find a data agent. I want like, yeah. Like, I want half of the shit to be about like the intricacies of designing nanotech machinery and like then straight to just like, we just fall on each other and things happen. You wrestle. You know? Well, I'm used to turning that way. In any case, Scott, the video guy, good luck editing this video. Scott's like, I'm not editing anything. Shit. This is cool. So, hey, what's the sound? For strength, the moderate and high-born groups, so better outcomes. So potentially, based on this data, slightly higher volumes for strength and previously thought makes sense for the squat. For high-purchase, this is the interesting part for pretty much everyone here. What's beyond this? The highest volume groups on the best outcomes. And there was pretty much yet. There was pretty much a dose response linear relationship between how much volume they did, 22 sets all the way to on average 37 sets and how much high-purchase they saw. This is interesting because we do have previous data looking at the quads and sort of higher volumes. We have about six studies now, including this one. A little original Brazilian study. There was Brad's replication in the Brazilian study and a few others. We're actually ignoring the blah blah studies, so there's every study as well as the blah blah studies. No, no, no, there's the other Brazilian study that is like an aircraft carrier with sailors and some shit. They did Brad replicated that and then Brad got trouble because people were like, you're taking money from big volume. He's like, this is a replication study. If they're talking about it, if I trouble him, you'll not be Donald. I'm not allowed to say that, show him. You didn't say it, I said it. Anyways, so there is actually previous data generally showing the same thing, which is that the quads seem to actually benefit from relatively higher volumes. From there we have the triceps and quads benefit from slightly higher volumes and the biceps from slightly lower volumes, which is interesting, at least in these studies. With the quads, specifically, it does seem like you can do above 20 sets and likely at this point, see more growth. We have six studies looking at hypertrophy, comparing a more moderate volume approach, about five to 20 sets to a higher volume approach of typically 20 to 35 sets per week for a high volume approach. And results are consistently neutral to positive for higher volumes. So there's two studies showing the same hypertrophy, whether you do sort of lower volumes in the fact of 15 or about 20 range versus there's two studies showing a neutral, low difference malatcom and there's four studies showing a positive effect on hypertrophy when doing above 20 sets. How much more hypertrophy are we talking about here, effect size wise and real world wise? Sure. So I don't think it's at a linear relationship. So I don't think when you go from 10 to 20 sets, that's the same increase in hypertrophy as going from say 20 to 30 sets and give it dust paper off a little bit to totaler. But there is a meaningful benefit to be had, meaningful. Okay. Two more things to ask you. One is, let's forget about some, my next thing to ask you after this is the volume ramping situation literature. But before that, I look at the study, I look at a few of the other studies. And I go, Jesus Christ, 52, fuck itself. I'll tell you what I get out of it as like this is what the literature tells me to do in spirit and you let me know if I'm wrong or how you would caveat this. I would say, this is a video I have written down to make in its own standalone, where I'll talk about the terms here. But systemic fatigue is going to stop you from doing this for your whole body for sure. Nobody's survived in that shit. Nobody's doing 50 sets a week for every muscle group's body in a major one. You're going to die. You're just going to just completely burn out. However, this realization from the literature that many people can benefit from significantly more sets than theorized opens up a really big window for the idea of specialization phases. And that if you back off on your quads, back off on your hands and calves, take it easy on your glutes and your back, you can take your chest and triceps and pump up the volume and as long as your system is recovering, it may surprise you how non-limited locally the muscles are and that more volume often does get you better results. So my forearms won't grow from wrist curls. I have this conversation with people. Most of you, I have a lot of masturbation and anonymous kind of groups. It's not really a lot of them. They are physically. We jack off together. Wow. Yeah, big circle. I mean, sagigikoki is someone always eats the cookie. In any case, people will say, like, I can't get my forearms to grow. But, okay, your forearms, for my at least in parental understanding, they recover quickly anyway. They're not positioned well to take mechanical damage. So they come in and he sets you doing. Like, I do three sets of wrist curls after arms every week. Meal, you do three sets a week and you're baffled at your not getting results. My fuckers I hear doing, 52 sets a quads a week. You better get them, do that shit. Maybe 10 sets, three times a week, work up to that and you can expect to see potentially you can do a more realistic assessment, expecting growth from that than you can expecting a neutral or no outcome. Like, there are green fields of growth for you per muscle. In maybe higher volumes than you thought and the way to get there is to specialize on those, bring down the other muscles, let the muscles you want and just crank up the volume. Agreed to agreed, nuance, additional. Agreed. A couple things on that. One, keep in mind the relation between volume and growth, thus taper off the tail end. So if you're going from say 20 sets for a most group to 30, specialize, you may not see as much additional growth as if you think it's just linear. Right. But I will really quick, in addition to that, a lot of the people who find themselves candidates for specialization phases are people who realistically look at their pecks over the course of the year. I legitimately think I haven't grown at all. Then the difference between 30 sets and 20 sets could be the difference between zero and anything above, which is technically infinite. You know, like, it's infinitely better gains if it's zero as your baseline. So for people that are more advanced than a struggling for muscle group, yeah, for people that are not advanced, they're not struggling. Just do whatever volume keeps your fucking going. But if you run into a problem, lower the other muscle volume, raise the problem, muscle up slowly, and then you'll probably be in line for some growth, 100%. And because you get diminishing returns with additional volume, for a lot of big units and intermediates, training everything equally, and to a decent level, like about 15 to 20 sets per week, is a really solid story. Yes. And it'll get you maybe 80, 85% of all of your life. Exactly. Then later, when you want to push the pace, you got to lower some things, bring some things. Sure. A couple more findings from this study. For one is obviously that I'm trained all the muscle groups at once, but these people were able to see a benefit from volumes as high as 37 sets per week for muscle group, while training, taking all sets to RPA to a group of some of those are elated failure. So there's a good chance that you can recover from more than we previously thought. If you had no knowledge of your own sort of the cheek and recoverability from training, the final thing is specialization can be really useful in this sort of situation where you want to bring one muscle group up, and where you can only recover from so much training, and so you want to manage fatigue and still grow a certain muscle groups very well. Equally, this also applies to how much time you have. If you only have fias to train a week and you care more about certain muscle groups, the same consideration can be had for fatigue as per time. So maybe specializing on a few muscle groups at a time when you're really pressed for time, and keeping everything else a bit lower is a really solid approach. Yes. Because we had Dr. Pack on, or depending on the release schedule of this video, we'll have him out in the future. We recorded a right before you sat down. You were here for this. And he let us know kind of the details of the minimum effect of dose, the minimum effect of volume literature. And that's also very encouraging like you can actually make some decent gains in many cases with very few sets. But it turns out the landscape is kind of like the maximum adaptive volume when Dr. James Hoffman, I wrote the Ovalian landmarks book. We theorized it to be a floating function, not one specific point that adapts to many conditions. And we also imagined the growth curve based on our experience in reading of literature at the time. The growth curve between the minimum effect of volume to maximum recoverable. We thought it looked very smooth, and there was a lot to exploit. We didn't think it was like nothing and back to shit. It looks like that's at least a little bit the literature is being kind to earlier predictions. Like you get some growth right out of minimum effect of volume. And very close you rise up to really good level of growth. As you go up closer and close to MRV, it goes up kind of linearly but not impressively. And then at some point it falls off. Decent? That's correct. It just turns out that the M.A.V. The maximum adaptive volume is a little bit higher than we thought. Yes. Yes. Now, second to last question. Got you, got you here, Mr. Expert. We got all kinds of questions for you. Have we really had any series of well-conducted studies discover an MRV or not really? That's a good question because I used to get a lot of shit for saying like many people can train with 20 sets per week at the end of their Mazzo and they'll tell that's close to MRV for them maybe. They'll recover just fine. They'll be okay if you take a deal out. And then people come back, get me the book and crazy. You're going to burn people out and it's kind of like, well, I don't even know what to say. It was 52 sets. Motherfucker. I would've never said that shit was true. But apparently, these people still alive, ambulating under their own power. What gives did we find in MRV? Or is it just kind of like, we haven't found it yet? We have not found MRV yet pretty much. And we've trained people with pretty high volumes. Like in this study for example, at least for the Quad's locally. Yes. We trained with very high volumes. So I've been systemic MRV overall MRV for almost groups combined. As far as local MRV goes, if it existed at a sort of lower level, we should have found the in this study in found condition of hypertrophy. Yes. We didn't. That's the definition of MRV. Exactly. You're not recovering anymore. It's unlikely you're sparing a lot of them. Did you guys, do you have any insight on the data? Maybe this is like a request for our data thing. Did you look at their strengths through the study week to week to week? Because I'd like to see if how that looked. Because it could be like they got weaker at the end. But they still did a function of overreach for more growth or something. For sure. Functional reach in hypertrophy is a very noble area. We don't have a ton of support for it yet. It may occur. It may occur. But if maybe the experience of ton of fatigue at the UNS study, but that didn't stop them from still growing. And I know you had a discussion based on the unrevised trauma, for example. About to what extent is fatigue from training actually interfering with producing a hypertrophy stimulus? Right? Because you can probably be a bit fatigue going into a session. And still get really good growth in that session. Sure. So that's a really interesting question. Yes. Last question for you. The literature, when I was around making my MRV militia, theorizing about volume, just from theory and observation, I managed to synthesize the idea that there is some logic to at least consider that what is a very good dose for you of volume and week one of your program. Maybe a volume you could very easily recover from later, because you're used to it. And my thinking was there are many complex ways of thinking about this, but my simplest version was like, if you can recover from much more now, like week one, you go in and three sets of leg press, you're fucking limping around for a week. The argument to do more is kind of strange. It's like you want me to limp harder, like what the fuck? But like if you're in week three of a program, but let's say six weeks long, you're doing 10 sets of quads. And like you just don't even get delayed on sets of sornas anymore. Someone comes into the gym. This is the way I did a lot of my thought experiments. Like, what if a very intelligent and insightful insell? And by insulin, I mean, person who asks you rude questions to your face comes up and asks me about why am I stopping? Or why am I doing this? How do I answer them politely? And if I can't coagently understand in my own headway answer, like, oh, we really don't know this. So he would be like, how many sets did you do? And you're like, 10, he's like, why not 12? And you're like, well, you see. He's like, is it because you can't recover? You're like, no, no, I can recover. Actually, easily. He's like, why not do more? Here's the graph of her colleague, growth and volume now that we know. It looks like that. You can recover, why not grow more? I actually can't tell you. I answer that question. So I was like, okay, to me, you start out with whatever you can handle. And then as your body clearly is adapting to higher volumes. And as far as just notable recovery of how fast you get gain function back in strength, how quickly the Dom settles out. And then you're like, well, fuck, like it seems like I can handle this. Then there's a logic for potentially doing more. Now, that was purely logical in my hands, purely influential. We didn't have data because no one was doing rambling studies. But that's changed recently. It has tell me how it's changed. So there's been a few direct studies on the topic of taking your baseline volume into account, like that first week of training, and adding volume to that. Specifically, in this study for example, they went from 22 sets all the way to 52 sets. So that's kind of exploring that concept. But with the big confound of different groups had different average volumes. So is it the fact that you're adding sets week to week? Or is it simply the fact that one who did more sets overall? Yes. Difficult to listen to. So true, a true control. A internal internally valid pure study for controls there would be one group, both groups average 20 sets a week. One starts at 20 and ends at 20. One starts at 10 and ends at 30. You go on it. Perfect. That'll be a good idea. We don't have that study. We don't have that study. However, we also have another study that took into account participants previous volume, and then assigned one limb to just doing the same volume again, and one limb to doing quite a percent extra volume. And in that study, did it indeed find additional hypertrophy? There has been in the limb that did additional volume kind of increasing from the baseline. So the concept of adding one week, we see the panel in some research. The research where it doesn't seem to pan out is typically where greater additions of volume are performed, and where it's performed at once. So for example, the rest of the studies where they add 30 percent, with 60 percent of volume just from one week to the next. Oh. And that doesn't seem to think that hypertrophy versus just staying that. Wow. Okay. So the slow approach might be better. A slow approach might be better, and I think that volume, auto-regulation, sort of weak to weak adding volume as you feel recovered, is probably best used to get to your most productive volume. Yeah. Right. Who do we start? Do we pay him off for agreeing with our old ideas that we're? Yeah. So a couple of a couple of dollars. Big volume says hello. Hey, Brad, I'm walking with Brad. So if anything, I'm being paid by Brad, I'm being paid by your P. Yeah. Do you know, so you work actually directly with Dr. Brad Schnell. That's right. And so then you understand that in the Batman universe of things, he's kind of like the penguin of big volume. He very much like like he, he knows. How do we character? Yes. Pulling all the strings behind the scenes. All of them. Big volume bias. And honestly, I've been paid by big volume. I fucking house and recording studio. How much money they have, but seems to run deep. Yeah. Like, I remember one side posted a, like a meme that was like kind of friendly towards hit. And I was picking my kids up from school later that day. They were a guy in a limo stepdad. He's like, you got beautiful children. Make sure they stay beautiful with the high volume. I was like, sir, I think he was like a dime. Like some kind of alien life. Yeah. I was going to say this on the time. Next day, the next post I made was a fuck mic mentor. And I think they like that. That's a good cash. No, but they give me a warning first. But the fuck mic mentor just got me back to the good. But every month, the, the, the, the, the, the, I'd proselytize for high volume. And now you're getting, I, I, I like that watch. What kind of watch is that? It's a decent, you know. So you know, I said, I mean, for real, that's big volume, much by can tell. And it's the down next to you on a plane of like volume proponent. You're like, you know what, real recognizing as real? I love it. So other than getting money to shield for big volume, um, what is your summary now? Of how your mind has changed in the last two years about the concept of how much volume should I do if I want my best growth for sure. So previously we thought, and about maybe about 15 to 20 sets per week, the muscle group is a really solid place for most people, most people. Max, my separate. You gotta try yourself and see where you are. Some people that's really low. Some people that's really high. It's a normal distribution. Yeah, there'll be some people below 15 sets. Some people are about 20 sets. Yeah. A general ballpark that we thought a couple of years ago was a really solid place. Now with this more recent data, for example, the deal of study as well, where you didn't necessarily see a benefit from deal of after four weeks. There's a study by Coleman and colleagues, recently published. Fatigue doesn't seem to be quite as big of consideration, at least with the volumes that we're talking about here, 15, 20 sets. And what training studies were there only training a fraction of their example body. Like your whole body, everyone knows you get tired. We don't need a study for that. And that's actually a study we plan on doing. Oh, don't. We plan on running a study at some point of power study. We're essentially we just take trained lifters. We be able to train lifters in a huge sample size because they'll be in the lab five days a week. Each, like training hard during 23 sets per muscle group. And we'll be tracking the readiness recovery for fatigue, et cetera. To see whether these studies on single muscle groups, you know when you're doing 30 sets per quad for example, whether we can do that for the whole body and trained lifters, and still recover. Yeah, and how was that one? That's a big question. Yeah, for sure. Huge question, for sure. So previously, we thought 15, 20 sets really saw a starting point for hypertrophy. Now with these six studies, we're four of them show a benefit to higher volumes above 20 sets versus low end 20 sets. And two shown or difference. Broly speaking, I do think you want to explore higher volumes. Listen to your body as far as recovery goes as far as recovery training, but try going above 20 sets and see whether or not you can get additional growth rate. Maybe all the way to 25 to three sets at the peak points. Yes, and would you say this is especially true for people who have lagging muscle groups or is it like if my chest is responding amazing to 10 to 15 sets, try more even for that? I would say so. I would say you can literally, if you want to try out the increasing volume of lowly for all muscle groups and see if you can recover. You might just find that actually you can take all muscle groups to about 20 sets and still recover just fine. Now, if you take to 25 or 30, you might find actually that's not feasible. And you have to specialize in order to manage overall fatigue. However, just raising volume overall gradually and seeing how you respond is a good storing place and then you can branch out into either specializing or continuing to train everything pretty quickly. Top. I have one final question for you. One one. What's that? One one. It's British lag for what's going on. Oh yeah, I remember you talked one earlier. Yeah. And it. What is your problem with Mike Monser personally? You see me seemingly. What's up, Prima? Talk to us. I hate HRT Bros. Like I'll say publicly. I do not like you. HRT Bros just have this veneer of the like you about who I don't think it's a veneer. It's for real, real, real. HRT Bros, if you manage to listen to this much science, stay calm. Um, and my last just joking. Yep. Good go. Ahhhh. My well, you've been amazing. See you next time. Peace.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here with Renaissance Pyrridsation. And today's video is about how to deadlift for growth. If you're gonna deadlift for growth. Now here's the deal. The deadlift has been aligned in some cases by myself personally as maybe not the best growth exercise. Why? The range of motion isn't amazing. Not a whole lot of muscles are being put under a stretch. It's not exactly sure which muscle is specifically the focus because the deadlift does a good job of distributing the loader for many muscles. It's difficult to have a situation where it's really a target muscle without altering the deadlift at a pretty fine level of technical execution. And probably most importantly, the stimulus to fatigue ratio of the deadlift because it is so, so, so fatiguing, is often just not as great as other exercises that are comparable. For example, if you want a big back, your option is to deadlift versus bent row, I think bent rows usually are better choice. I mean, they're always a better choice though. And in some cases, especially for beginners and her mediates and in some other special cases, deadlifts are an excellent tool for growing muscle. But how you use deadlift to grow muscle is a big deal and can be the difference between being like, oh man, why do deadlifts again for six weeks? I just feel like shit. And I think I'm not much bigger versus wow. I'm glad I included deadlifts and I can see these thick slabs of beef on my insert muscle group here. Specifically, I have seven tips for you today as to how to improve the way you do deadlifts if you choose to do them for muscle growth. And I'm assuming that you already have calculated that the deadlift will be a good enough stimulus to fatigue ratio exercise for you to make itologically valid alternative, at least some of the time compared to other stuff you're doing in the gym. All right, first, number one is picking the right deadlift for the job. In my view, if you're training the glutes, for example, two very good options for the deadlift are deficit sumo, which seems to target the glutes very much and the deficit puts the glutes in a huge stretch, which is a huge part of the growth process, or a conventional deadlift that looks like a stiff that leg and deadlift in most of its execution. However, you bend the knees the entire time just enough to keep the tension off of the hamstrings. Your back is flat, your knees bend as you go down, just enough to keep the ham's out of it, and you go to a deficit. So at the bottom, your glutes are stretched like crazy, because your back is tight and preferably where a good weightlifting belt and your hamstrings are the fundamental prime movers because they have been put into insufficiency by you moving your knees forward. Your glutes are the absolute prime mover number one. And number two are also at a loaded stretch at the bottom and the movement sounds like a big win for the glutes. If you wanna train your back, the best kind of deadlift to do is probably the conventional kind and as a matter of fact, from a deficit. The thing is, the deficit is made from you bending your knees a little bit more than usual, bending your hips a bit more than usual, and or rounding your back a little bit. If you start with higher reps and easing, you will not automatically die and have a herniation of the spine while rounding the back and the deadlift, but if it's for higher reps and it's under control and it's too good deficit, some degree of back flexion and then extending the back on the concentric is gonna really grow the living shit out of your back quite safely I might add. Deficits, I'm sorry, deadlifts that are not in this two category of things. We're essentially a three types deadlifts, deficit sumo, deficit conventional for the glutes and then a deficit regular conventional with the bent back for back. If the deadlifts you're using for hypertrophy are not in that situation or if they're not one of those three, does that mean they're gonna be functionless? No, does that mean I think you could be using something more effective? Yes, in most cases, absolutely. So if someone does a deadlift for hypertrophy that's not one of these, I'm interested to hear the reasoning, but I'm assuming that maybe they didn't do a lot of reasoning or just haven't thought they should through. For example, a lot of people like rack pulls and going to tell you one of the only reasons that people like rack pulls, it is to be able to put a lot of weight on the bar and have a chance to yell so the whole gym is impressed or to dilute themselves into thinking the working very hard. I, if you pros, are amazing at doing this. The rack pull is mostly a gigantic waste of time. Although it's a great way to, I symmetrically, grow your traps. The rack pull is just not a very thought-out movement. I'm not so sure what it trains and don't worry, it's advocates also are not sure what it trains. What about the hex bar deadlift, especially with the handles turned up? Well, if you bring the deadlift close to your center of gravity, it begins more to be a leg movement in a partial range and a less of a back movement. Your legs are strong in your back, which is why you can usually hex bar deadlift more than you can regular deadlift. But even if, especially if you use the handles that pop out, the hex bar deadlift is a very partial range of motion, which again, you can use a shit load of weight to do exactly what I'm not sure. And I don't even know what muscle is targeted anymore because the quads, the adductors, the hamstrings, the glutes, and the back all spread the load so evenly in a hex deadlift. It makes it the perfect candidate for maximum load lifting because you milk all the muscles out on their best anatomically favorable positions, but you really don't put any muscle at a disadvantage, put it under a loaded stretch, and as thus, I'm not sure what the target fried purge fears. Of course, there are exceptions to this, but generally speaking, I do prefer these kinds of deadlifts to the ones that many people do. I would say erroneously by a small margin for hypertrophic gain. Number two tip is to do slow controlled and eccentric. It is really fun to drop your deadlift really fast if you're a power lifter, and you want to go for very high percentage of your max lift without accruing as much fatigues you need, dropping your deadlifts or riding them down because you're not allowed to drop on competition, having your hands on it, but riding down pretty fast is a really, really good idea. If you're using the deadlift for growth, we already know that eccentric contractions are at least a very powerful for growth if not even better than concentric attraction. So then, why the fuck will you drop the deadlift? Well, the reason is, you want more reps or more weight. If you have to eccentrically control your deadlifts, you get more hypertrophy, but it is more painful to your ego because you're not as strong as you thought you were. Huge recommendation there, and it takes the injury probability and shrinks it substantially. At the expense of the ego, of course. Number three tip is to do a very gentle touch at the bottom. You can do a full stop at the bottom, but then getting the deadlift off of the floor is actually pretty hard work, and that requires a lot of neurological drive, and the movement from static to start, from isometric to concentric, isn't particularly hyper-trophic. But a gentle touch allows you a nice little stretch reflex. It also puts a shitload of tension on the muscles that you're targeting when they're under their maximum stretch in the lift, and because it's very gentle, it is a super super low risk. It's just a matter of kind of finding out where the floor is noting it, touching gently and coming back up. And because you have to control all the way down slow, you have a very powerful eccentric contraction all the way to the loaded stretch, holy shit, that's a recipe for big ass gains, and it will make you sore, and you will notice that shit. Number four, I recommend sets of five to 15 repetitions. Anything more than 15 reps is really just a cardio thing with deadlifts, and then you're not really training a muscle in most cases. Anything less than five is not enough volume per set to grow as much muscle as possible. So that's kind of ruled out the other ends of the range. Number five, consider the systemic and axial fatigue you're imposing, especially by arranging your workout within the week and picking what movements you do for the other exercises for the week. It's probably not wise to do deadlifts, and stiff-legged deadlifts, and good mornings, and two different kinds of bent rows, and flexion rows in the same week. And if you're gonna do some of those things in the same week, I'd say move half of them out to the next time you do a program, and then the ones that are remaining push away from the deadlift so that you get some even distribution of how much you are straining your spine and your back and all that stuff. You don't deadlifts really beat the shit out of you, actually they load the spine a ton, which isn't a bad thing, it's just very fatiguing. And also they beat the shit out of your muscles a ton, specifically muscles in your lower back. If you need them for stability and power generation and other lifts, you'd better make sure the deadlifts occur after those lifts, or there's a few days between when you deadlift, heavy, and when you squat heavy, or when you do good mornings, and when you do stuff like your deadlifts, just be smart about it and understand that your lower back and your core and your ability to load actually through the spine can be more limited than your other sources of fatigue. So you're like, right down your plan, you're like, it's not too many exercises. How the fuck am I so beat up? Because you noticed, oh, four to the six back exercises I chose, really involve a lot of spinal looting, heavily involved the lumbar muscles and spinal directors all the way through. And I just like, okay, I should have known they don't recover as fast, which is really the case. Number six, keep your technique spotless and slowly progress in load over time. Why is this advice for the deadlift specifically? I mean, it's true for everything, but with the deadlift, I think people get carried away and even bodybuilders who have deadlift in the program, they end up like just putting a shit little weight on the bar, just fucking going to town, everything goes out the window and it just turns into an eagle lift. There are many, many top pros who still do this. Their entire financial situation, or at least, approximately, depends on them staying injury free and they go and deadlift six, seven, eight, her pounds plus and make Instagram post about it. On the one hand, mad respect, your strong shit. On the other hand, the fuck are you doing? Are you trying to use this deadlift for strength? Is the side hobby sweet? As long as you have accepted the injury, I don't know where he is. But if you're thinking this really helps hypertrophy, if you really really want to help hypertrophy, you can make sure that your technique is always good and you're gently progressing and load over time. You may still eventually get very, very strong in the deadlift, but it has to be a situation where you add at five or 10 pounds every time, not one where you usually live four plates and you come in and you're like, I'm fucking feeling to brothers, put five fucking wheels on the bar. You know what if you call plates wheels, you're the fucking man? Lastly, point number seven, when you're training your glutes with deadlifts, you can do them at the beginning, middle or end of the workout generally is a very favorable effect. If you're training your back, I would recommend that you save your deadlift for the very end of the workout for two reasons. Reason number one is your back will be so beat up on the time you get to deadlift, it'll already be the limiting factor. In your deadlifts, your glutes and hands can easily power the deadlift, and if you're back, a sterilely fucking strong too, you need to stress your glutes and hands a shit load, put a shit load of volume and weight through them to get the effect you want for your back. But if your back is already tired and it's gonna give out a technique wise, you're just not being able to be able to straighten yourself out anymore, when it's tired, you're gonna need that many fewer sets and reps and load to expose your glutes and everything else too. That's a really, really, really big deal. In addition to that, the deadlift, systemically fatigues you like crazy, proximately, five sets of deadlift later, you look at the pull down bar and you're like fuck that, I'm just trying to go home. And of course you won't go home, because you're tough. You're gonna go do pull downs, but you're not gonna try as hard as you could have if you did them fresh. Do your whole back workout and don't you worry, deadlifts are so stimulative and so, the rostimus match you is so high, as long as you do any deadlifts at the end of your plan, your back is already tired, you won't need to work very hard for deadlifts to be very effective. But if you do them fresh, you're gonna need to work really hard for them to be effective, because you're fresh. And that's gonna beat the shit out of you for the rest of your workout. I would say it's thinking about it in reverse. Of course, if you want a deadlift as much as you possibly can, sure shit, you better deadlift first. But that's not the goal. Regional muscle hypertrophy is the goal, then especially for back. You wanna do it after a whole bunch of bent rows, after pull downs, all that stuff. Folks, thank you so much for tuning in. If you want more nerdy stuff like this and even nerdyer, we have a members section for you guys, YouTube membership, it's like five or six bucks. A month and you get extra videos, eight, one video, extra per week. And we have a team full-round forum. We can build you a plan for diet, for training. It's all included. There's a huge discussion forum where you can always post a bunch of your training videos, well, analyze the techniques, get back to you, can ask me personal questions, there's an only fans component. I'm kidding, hopefully YouTube doesn't ban us for that comment. In any case, thanks for tuning in guys, and I'll see you next time.

Are you snacking and not losing weight? Your children may be at risk. Tonight, news at 11. Dun, Dun, Dun, Dun, Dun. All right. Anyway, the advice here for this quick tips lecture is to stop snacking to lose weight. Hold on a second. You may be in the position where you be pretty well, but you snacks here and there, maybe your clients tell you stuff like that. Like, hey, how are you been eating? I noticed you're not losing weight like we planned. Like, well, I'm eating really good. And then you're like, okay, you turn your head like this and they turn their head like this. But I think having a few snacks, how they do that face and you're like, ah, huh? And they're like, fuck, fuck, fuck. He got me. Don't take the snacks away. Please, the only thing I live for. Here's the deal. Some people can lose weight while eating snacks. And for them, and if that's you, fucking rock on, that's a huge win. Amazing. Feel free to turn off the rest of the day. This video unless you like shitty exercise based comedy. Just like no, whatever. Now, on the other hand, probably way more people have trouble losing weight. And they should at least think about cutting down or cutting out their snacks in the short term. Once they get to whatever stable weight they want, you can make an absolutely reintroduce snacks and that's totally fine. But they're at least four good reasons why you should consider if you're not losing weight like you want to cut out snacks. And if you have clients or friends or family, they're snackers. Maybe giving them these four sort of thoughts, can let them make better decisions about things that actually are effective in losing weight. Here's why. First point, snacking is often discordant from tracking. A lot of people who snack, like you can give them an app and say here, your picks all of your meals for you. The RP Diet Coach app does a fine job of that. Eat these meals. You'll be in shape. That's how a lot of meal plan. Nutrition works is do this and get that. A lot of people when they snack, if they have a diet app, they can put their snacks in the app too and that works. But a lot of people who snack and they don't use apps to begin with, they're not putting that in. They do eat their normal, great healthy food in their three or four meals a day, but then the snacks add up, they're not tracked. So you get that kind of answer that I alluded to earlier with your personal trainer or diet coach asks you client like, hey, how's your diet? Look, well, I really well. And they'll even describe the shit you don't ever need to fucking be like, for breakfast, is if every fucking breakfast is the same, they're for breakfast, they have egg whites, oatmeal, and cucumber, slices, and for lunch, have one turkey sandwich with light mayo, no cheese, and a handful of raspberries, and for dinner, I have fish, and blah, blah, blah. We've all fucking heard that numble ship before. First of all, the fucking lying, nine, ten, ten, and at least wildly exaggerated. They're picking their best. They never had a single good day like this in their lives. They pick one sample really good two-week period and composite together one breakfast, two lunches, with minus some of the M&M's they for two of them, and then one dinner, and over the course of two weeks, they happen to have three good meals, they just cluster those together and tell you that's how they eat everything, right? And they say, look, that's it, that's it. And then I got, I say, shows me here that you're 270 pounds. So this diet you described is 1900 daily calories. Something doesn't add up. It usually wouldn't phrase it this correctly. But then they say, oh, well, yes, I do some snacking. And you go, how much snacking? That's when, now I'm point number one, really it's in the face, they go, well, and the answer is they don't fucking know. Cause they never kept track, why would they? They're just doing some M&M's here and there, some nuts here and there, folks, that shit, especially at the office, adds up like crazy. So if you're thinking you're eating healthy and this thing is charitable, a lot of people are in this awful situation, awful, Western, first world problem here. They're in the situation of being like, I eat well, but I'm fucking using any weight. And then if you take away their snacking, they go, oh, that was 800 calories a day of snacks. And there's a thing, it's point number two, easy to add a load of calories in the form of snacks. If you eat any time you're in the mood, a lot of times you'll be eating often, especially considering that snacks are often very palatable, they're very tasty. It's what a fucking call, snacks. You imagine like, you go to see your boss for a quick chat at her desk and she's got some snacks lined up that she lets people eat, that's pretty common in the workforce and it's like slices of cucumber and broccoli, you're like, what the fuck? She's like snack, you're like, I'm good. But she has fucking chocolate covered almonds. Say in your voice, hey, man, I'm like, yep, no mind if I do, get me a little plate, a little bit of this, a little bit of that. Snacks are tasty, they're super easy to eat. And they make you feel nice, it's nice, it's enjoyable, it's actually entertaining. Moe's, I was always fond of the idea that at Coloquia and various conferences and academics and at corporate structures, they'll have refreshments between talks. Like, is the purpose of these three Oreo cookies to refresh me? I've ever felt refreshed after eating Oreos. I've just felt like, that was delicious, but I feel sick, right? So a lot of times, we have to understand that snacks are designed to be super tasty. And because of that, they're often times really high in calories. And because they're super tasty and high in calories, you just kind of keep wanting to eat them. And voila, you get into the situation where you can add up an unbelievable amount of calories and they've done various studies and estimates at how much people snack. Some people get in over a thousand calories per day, every day, just through snacks alone, is not that hard. So if you're thinking, well, I eat really well, but I snack a little and your personal trainer coaches like snacks, you're like, oh, but it's not that much. You're like, oh, how much is it? I don't really know, but I had five jars of chocolate covered cashews yesterday, is 20,000 calories, clear that situation, but it's so easy to get lots of calories. So point number two is like, if snacking was like, you eat a cucumber every hour and a half, nobody give a flying fuck at almost never happens. Number three, snacking, the practice of it can capitalize in not such a good way on emotional eating bubbles. Okay, why do I call them bubbles? Because the desire to eat emotionally is almost never stagnant. Now like you wake up at 10 a.m. or Jesus, let's lay it in the pot head. You wake up at 8 a.m. and you're like, oh man, I need to eat food so I can be happier than I am now. I just feel like if I just had some chocolate, I'd feel better. Well, at times that's not necessarily the case. And the same feeling at lunch, same at dinner and same late at night. A lot of times you're like, your boss will yell at you for a while, then you get off work and you're like, God damn it, I need something tasty to plug this whole, leaking out of my psyche. And then you go to the emotional eating. So essentially, if you don't snack, it's difficult to do emotional eating in a way that maximizes how much waking because precisely when you want to eat most emotionally, after whatever incident happened, be it in your brain or an external reality, you have instant access to snacks if you're a snacker and you can fill that bubble up with food and get all of the emotional to body weight connection that you did want. On the other hand, if you're regular meal eater and just not a snacker on principle, you're at your desk, you just know snacks around and you're like, shit, I fucked up that project. I could, if there were Cheetos here, I could bring myself feel better, but there aren't, I have dinner at five anyway, whatever fuck it, that's already packed. I'm just gonna fix whatever after fix, or take a couple walks around the block, come back and get to work. Then that emotionally eating bubble goes away. You fix all the stuff you needed. You send off the email to your boss five minutes later, she responds and she's like, hey, you did a great job, you're not fired with the fucking man, get out there this week, getting a fucked up, I don't know if your boss talks to you like that, maybe. But you're like, hey, I did it, the emotional stuff is over, you don't wanna eat compensatorally to feel better about yourself anymore, and then it's dinner time is five p.m. and you hit your macros anyway. So if the snacks are around, it can be a bad deal. Just to have around ideally you would let it pass and eat your meals when it's time, if you're a snacker, this is not gonna happen oftentimes. Lastly, I sort of alluded to this already, but I can actually dig in a little bit more. Snack food is very often junky, which means it is high palatable, it's super tasty, and it's high calories, and it's so super tasty that it makes you want to eat more of itself. I don't know about you guys, but I've never had a single chocolate covered almond and been like, ah, yes, serendipity. Now, in a sense, if I get one, I want 18, and if I get 18, I want 36,000, and then the butthole does this, and the doctors say things like, wow, we've never had to sow someone's butthole in five different places before. And you go, yeah, what am I paying you guys for? Anyway, I have insurance, and as soon as you're out of the hospital, back to the chocolate covered almonds, is this a story about me? And the world may never know, but in any case, if snacks were ultra-healthy, sweet. If you keep ultra-healthy snacks around, this whole snacking problem may be no problem for you at all, or much smaller of a problem. The thing is, a lot of times, the snack is the choice of this fucking bad, and a lot of times, it's not just your shit. How many of you guys by a show of hands, try to look through your TV at you through your computer screen, through your phone? How many of you guys are in a workplace office situation? Word, fucking, Debbie, who, I don't know, fuck, she stays in shape. Bitch, right? She comes in every fucking Thursday. She's like, I made my homemade mini donuts again. Ha, fuck you, Debbie, your goddamn perfect life. Eat these goddamn mini donuts, not being a fat piece shit like me. Every time you bring a man, I smell the shit smell unbelievable. I ate 15 of them every time. And then, well, I'm struggling with my weight. In many situations, snacks are just around. It's a pretty common thing, like, I'm from Russia, originally. We're a poor, fuck, we just didn't have this. And I don't know if this is a cultural thing, or just a poverty thing. But when I came to America, I noticed that my American friends, we said this like pantry area in their home, stocked full of snacks that seemingly no one ever ate. It was just available. Do you live in a situation like that? And you happen to be a snack or an emotional leader, aque man, you know, get those gushers. Hey, Scott, the video guy, you remember gushers? Oh, dude, they were cool and best commercial, too. Amazing commercials. You just want to be the coolest 90s kid in the world leading gushers. They're the ones with the juice juice. And if you read the back, they're like, liquid candy products, that juice. I remember getting those from you because they were like, wait, that's not really not food. And they're not food at all. But I'm doing a good, do you probably five IQ points higher and going to die five years later than otherwise, if you had a gotten those shits? But in any case, if you have all those snack foods around, if people are at the office bringing them in, it can be tough because almost always the snack food. Like, if there's a hippy lady who works the best next to you, your call center, whatever. And you're like, hey, Sharon, what you got for snacks? And she's like, I've got dried, key, well, I'll tell you what, you make up some shit. Like, oh yeah, my grandma loves those. She's like, do you want something like, oh, Sharon, nobody wants your snacks. Hey, hippy, nobody eats that crap. It tastes awful. Like, my horse wouldn't eat it. Yes, I have a horse. How do you guys think I get to my Lamborghini? And if not on horseback, huh? But in any case, most of the time snacks are fun, snacks, peanut M&M's and all that shit. And that's a really good way to not only add tons of calories, but want to keep adding tons of calories because they're amazing. At the end of the day, all of this may not apply to you. All of this may apply to you only marginally. Or all of this may apply to you in a big way. If you're that kind of person that's tried snacking and it seems you honestly say, man, if I stop snacking, I can fucking eliminate a lot of calories. Try it if you have problem clients because I know a lot of you guys are coaches yourselves, which is awesome. You have problem clients that you can know for a fact they're snacking or they tell you they're snacking but they're not going to think it's fine. Try to get them to reduce your eliminates, snacking, just during the fat loss phase. And they will oftentimes report unbelievable compliance, unbelievable results and be like, wow, how am I going to get ton of weight? And I've actually had the situation like, how do you think it's happening? I'm like, well, you're not eating at a fucking horse trough of snacks anymore. That might have something to do with it. So in any case, that's to your advantage. And if you like snacking, go away. You're not welcome on our channel. I'm totally kidding. All right answers. Do the one that works for you. See you guys next time.

Press! Go! Don't you? Nobody said, sorry! I accept your apology. Thank you. I would instead prefer five more reps. Do you know if they be sorry anymore? Wrap the handle? You're alternating between father figure and father figure that's not nice too. Yes, shitty older brother. All right. Same idea. Right. Slow. Hey folks. I'm Dr. Mike for Renaissance Pre-Dization. This is Adam Regusia. He has a mega cooking YouTube channel where he actually cooks actual food and he's actually good at it. Unlike me, who's a French chef trained in France. You know this, Cottonett Al-Quzine. But I'm no good at anything, especially cooking. However, I'm okay at making people or let's say suffer. Hello, Google term. Through resistance training. Got a thing for your suffering, right? You know, things have to happen. Part one right now. Adam is going to be getting beat up by me in a full body workout. First time on this channel, maybe. Look at how ready he is. One could say he's been ready. Oh, I... After this, Adam will push me through the pace to so to speak in the kitchen and we'll learn how to make a fun recipe that won't taste like shit because those are the only kind I can come up with. How are you feeling? Are you ready to train? I must break you. And you will try right now. We're going to warm you up first. Then we are going to do a technique, a tactic, a strategy, so to speak, that works really well for whole body workouts. And that is when we take one exercise that usually hits quite a few muscles. And we superset it with another exercise that uses pretty much none of those same muscles. So while you push yourself super hard in your hamstrings and glutes and lower back here on the stuff like a bedlift in a bit, we're going to superset that to chest presses, which means as soon as you're done to feel like a bedlifting, you calmly walk over to the chest press, begin to do lots of those. As soon as you're done there, maybe 30 seconds rest, you come back and hit this again. We're going to do that like three or four times in a row, let you rest and it will pick another exercise combo to hit other parts of your body. Unrelated parts. After four or five of these little superset situations, your whole body will be trained, fried, cooked, so to speak. You could really do that. Ready to serve. Scott, the camera guy is way thinner than me. I don't like that. He's fit. Can you fit in the knee? Can we get somebody else? This makes me uncomfortable. Scott, we're a fat suit. This is where we flip the script. Okay. And we turn the attitude from a leisurely tone into a business has to get done. Okay. Oh, I didn't touch. Here, oh. Chastes, slow. Up, three, and it's if you're going to do another ultra slow and then put the bar down. Beautiful, come with me. Slow, controlled, full touch. That was a bounce. No more bounce, sorry. Do it again, slow, pause, go. Good, couple more, you got this. We're supposed to be working hard. Quality reps only, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. Slow is if another chastop. Slow, all the way down. Touch. Get out. Oh yeah, yeah, no, that was it. That was a bounce. Well, I heard a few years ago, everybody was saying, oh, it's all about the eccentric. It's all about the way back down. That actually builds your muscle way more than pushing. But now I feel like the, I don't hear people saying that is often anymore. Has the research kind of turned the other direction? No, no, the eccentric is important. Oh, it's probably like a 60, 40, where it's 60% eccentric is good, 40% concentric is good. But since not the end of the world, but also I think maybe the people just go through phases and exercise science where they like to talk about something, but then when they feel like they've been heard, they go on to another thing. Which thing now are the people are talking about? Post in the comments, what's the big thing now? Yeah, what's the, what's the, includes have always been huge in my world. Well, and the, and the are huge in your world. Aaaaand I've noticed. Let's go make them bigger. Good. Three more on your done here. Chest. Chest. One. Put back. Yes. Two. Knees back more. Put back and knees back. Yes. Up. You know, as if another big chest. Slow. That's it. Yeah, chest press. Now we're working. Oh yeah, a couple more. All day, Adam, all day big chest. Good go. One last one, slow. Chest stop. Big press. Go, go, go, go, go. And then slow as if you're going to do another. And then get out. Excellent. Back to that lift. Okay. Let's stop. Yes. Good. Two more. Chest stop. Good. Chest stop. Up. And is if another and then put it down. Chest up. Chest up. Chest up. Yes. That's right. Great. Press. Okay. Right away, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. Go, go, go, go, go. Ah, it's so far back. Yes, the stretch grows a lot of muscle. Keep your chest up at the bottom. Good. Keep it going. Nobody said break. Push, go, up, up, up, up, up, up, slow on the way down. Let's do one more. We'll do it together. I'll help you out. Big chest. Push. Do. Push. Use man's strength. You got to be like, don't eat this partner. Where? Oh yeah. Talking about how you're lifting like a grandmother or something. Yeah. Oh, I think it's the northern accent. Whoa, so compulsion. There you go, like that, like that. Well, how do you feel? I feel great. Amazing. I would like to not do either of those exercises. Great. Good news. We're done with that. Yeah. We'll give you a drink. Okay. Have you rest, and then we'll do our next pair. Great. Sounds good? Yes. Okay. The next superset is going to be leg press. With pull down, really, any muscles involved in those two. And it makes for a great trade-off. This is going to be fun because leg presses are so fun. The pull-down's kind of work as hitting your back and a bit of a break. We're going to do another three sets of this. And then we'll have one final shell I say now. I'll say it. Triple superset. Spooky, we're actually filming this the day after Halloween. So I was doing six exercises. Don't you worry about coming this. Three times two. I'm no doctor, but I know what three times two is. They stand on your math. I can tell you no doctor. It's like that Ronnie Coleman video. We're like they're getting every single plate from the entire gym. And no one can work out while this is happening. So... Oh, good. She's a car. Cracking. She had a crack in. That's a good thing. Good push. You feel okay? I'm 40, but the knee is 55. I'm going to look a day over 21. Ugh. Uh-oh. Down. Pull that fucking weight. There you go. Slow. And one more. Okay. Kave over as much. Use your back. Hold. Yes. Slow. One more. Bonus route. Go. One more. Again. Go! She's this. One more. Just for fun. Hey, just for fun. This time. Go. Yes. Slow. And... Rack. Quickly to the black press. Quickly to black. No time for share. You know, knee charms where we're going. Push. Go. You're on. Rest for a second. Oh. You can lock the knees out gently. Breathe. Five more. Begin. I can't. Fuck you right back. Go. All right. So if that have a big fucking machine, and you got nothing left. I don't. One. Slow. Go, go, go, go, go. Nobody said rest. Big push. Good two. Three more. Slow. God damn it. Still two. That was too fast. Okay. I'll give you a good hit. Hit it. Slow. Control. Press. Be strong. Go. Good. Three more. Good. Come on, you got this. Press. Good. Two more. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Control. Press. One last one. Down. Slow. Slow. Slow. Chauze. Up. Go. Wrap. Right to pull down. Amazing work so far. Amazing work. I couldn't do this work out. Come on Adam, you got this. Easy. No cave. No bullshit. Okay. Good. Chest up. Good. Three more. And you're done. One. Don't leave. Go. Two. Okay, that was the best one yet. Last one. Big pull. Yes. Slow. Stretch. Oh, amazing. Right to the light press. Last one. A light press. Press. Go. Don't you know what it's supposed to be? I'm sorry. Stay there. Ah. Rest. I accept your apology. Thank you. I would instead prefer five more reps. I'll trade you, okay? Do you know what to be sorry anymore? Wrap the handles. You're alternating between father figure and father figure. That's not nice to you. Yes. Any older brother. All right. Same idea. Ready? Slow. Begin. Press. Yoooo! Down right away. Slow. Press. Again. Press. Two more. Huh? Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Press. One last one. Go. Go. But ultra slow. Ultra slow. Pause. No. Out. Go. Wrap. Thank you. Last set of pull downs. Let's hit a quick. Let's hit a quick. Excellent. Five more good ones. And you get a chance to rest. Come on. One. Slow. Control. Big stretch. Again. Two. Slow. Control. Big stretch. Go. Three. Slow. Control. Big stretch. Hit it. Four. Don't you fucking cave over. Last one. Good. Technique. Yes. Slow. Rack. To pull your people the Italians. Ah-ha. Fucking beautiful. Oh, fucking beautiful. A fungal. Take a break. One. Have another drink. Thank you. Relax. And we'll do our last thing. I can't believe I felt like that was like two little plates on the thing. Yeah. I don't like that. Yeah. Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. First, you're going to do dumbbell upright rows. Ah. Nothing from the hips. Uh-huh. You just take your elbows. Huh? Push them up to the sky. Second exercise. Grab here on the inside. Yeah. Stand straight up. Okay. Coils. That's because of him and Judaism. That's right. Always. Controlling the eccentric. I'll let you try these in a second. Sure. And then lastly, Pinkies. On the non-nerled part. Open grip. Chest stays up. Ah. Push downs with your elbow staying in. And on the way down, you want your elbows to kind of back a little bit. Good. Five more in your dumbbell. My grip is going. One, we'll get you some chalk in a second. Two. Chalk makes my forearm stronger. Ah. Three. Go. Two. Four. And one more. Yeah. Slow. Back. Curl. Right away. Right away. I got one more. Go. One. Slow. Two. Slow. Up. Slow. Last one. Up. Slow. Right to push downs. Begin. Go. One more. Slow. Press. Press. Yes. Slow is if another. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Rack. Great. Ah. All right. Come over here to the chalk bowl. Go. Give me 20 of these. Go. I'm fucking, I'm fucking. Oh, please. I guess fucking. I guess fucking Fedachini arms. Ah. Regroup the dumbbells. Rip, rip, rip, rip, good. Go. Two. Stay upright. Don't let it punk you out. Three. Two more. Let's go. Up. Four. And right away. And up. Slow. Slow and Rack. Good job. 15 curls. Begin. If you take a rest at the bottom, we add one rep. Ah. Yes. Slow. Slow. Slow. Rack. Last set of push downs. 20. And it doesn't matter how it happens. It just has to be good technique. So you can lock these out. One. Stand close with a machine. Two. Come up higher. No long breaks at the bottom. Four. Up. Good. Three. Up. Good. Slow. Good. One more. Go. Slow. Slow. Slow. Slow. Push. Push. Slow. Is it for another? Is it for another? Is it for another? Rack. This is too high. That was so sweet. I just want to hang it. You're going to reach up and hang what you could. Oh. I don't like either of you. You got you either. Take that YouTuber. Cook your way out of that one, mother fucker. So, decides say no cool down either. Can we cool down? We just don't stretch. Cool down, or something you can do? If you would like to be less sore. No, I don't know. I like, I'm enough of a massicist. I like this. I like me some dums. Yeah. But also it probably reduces adaptations. So cool downs are inadvisable. I knew that Dr. Mike was going to harm me in some way. But, you know, if you were to like say like point on the doll where Dr. Mike is going to hurt you, I would not have guessed the particular places. Okay. You're not going to be helpful in the police interview. Oh, sounds. I just, I thought you were going to strip throw more away. Didn't mean I was like babyweight, but it was. Don't like how it made me feel. I think you did great. Thank you. You feel. I feel wrecked. Excellent. That's crazy. Yeah. And I thought that I had been like, because I was like super totally out of shape for several years. And then like about eight months ago, I started kind of ratcheting it back up again. And I thought I was in hard on myself, but no, that's too hard. So you did really good. You tried hard. You maintained your technique. You bitched a an acceptable amount. Oh, thank you. Yes, there's definitely a buffer zone. And just make camera. And just for the cameras. And then now we go and we make tasty food. No, no, no, I don't process the teamwork. Yes, we make things beautiful. It's a painful food. That lead to gains. And we'll see you in the kitchen as of. So yeah, we're going to, we're going to refuel ourselves. And I'm going to show you a recipe that I used to make a lot. Back when I took my fitness much more seriously. Or the other way I'm looking at is that I had no children. And therefore I had nothing more important to do. But it's something I have made in a while. But it's a turkey meatloaf. Many meatloaf that you do in a muffin tin. And it's fucking gross. But you know, it'll make you look like this guy. Hey, and hilariously enough, they used to call me many meatloaf in high school. Let's get in there and buy some stuff. In my opinion, asparagus is the king of vegetables. And that's not just because it's shaped like a foul. But mostly because it's shaped like a foul. But also it's very delicious and nutritious. And it makes your piece smell real weird. And that's your one of the like 30% of people who don't have that gene. And you know, the people who have that gene, their piece still smells weird. They just don't know it. Oh, that's the worst. I know. Or is it the best? Is that like the better way to be? So the bodybuilders always want me to talk about. They want to say, how can I make my chicken breast taste better? My response? By the thighs. Now they don't distinguish between dark meat and white meats. My wife and I will not be able to eat them unless you make them disgustingly lean. Okay. So 93, 7, probably. All right, we'll do it. Although there is like 99, but that's not really food anymore, isn't it? You might as well just inject amino acids. How is that even possible? Yeah. You want to make anything taste good. The shortest way there is jippote pepper is in a dobbosauce. Dump it in. Anything is good. So the question is like traditional Quaker Oats versus instant oats. My understanding is that the processing they do for the instant oats, their starch damage, which raises the glycemic index considerably. On the other hand, if you're like, I specimen such as yourself, you want all that sugar to hit you really fast, right? I don't know. Let's go with the traditional. Okay, just relax. Let's get a muffin tin and then let's go to the kitchen. So this is something I used to eat all the time when I was much thinner than I am now. And it's totally disgusting. You're going to hate it. So step one is take any vegetable that you like. I like asparagus because I think it tastes good. Also, it's small and so it cooks quickly. So the trick for you, kids at home, is to come in a bundle like yay, is remove this, remove this, that was cool. Remove this, whatever the rubber band. Remember band, I suffer from the phasures. And then don't remove that one because basically once it gets down here, you've got a whole bunch of organic polysaccharides that are converting into a lignin, which is the stuff that makes wood wood. And like the older that the asparagus is, then the more woody the stems are going to be. So basically I just leave that on because it holds that part together. And then you can throw it away more easily. We don't want the woody stuff. Well, you want the, you want, can't box with this guy. He's too good. I am merely going to cut this into a teeny pieces. So you make it as small as possible so that you don't notice it as you cram it down your gullet. Are we still talking about the vegetables? Look at these. If there's one thing dogs love the spears. I have generally even, you know, in times when I was eating like a meathead, like Dr. Mike, I have endeavored to eat lots of vegetables just because I always feel way less terrible. Yeah, it's very good for your health. You know, purely for the fiber, if nothing else, you know. So we'll just let that soften. I'm going to put that part. How do you know when it's done? Done. Okay, trade secret. Yeah. I mean, the other thing about vegetables is that it's like they, in all seriousness, it's like the cellular decay that they experience, even after you take them off the heat, is really significant. Like they keep soft at egg. Yeah, you know. So always pull your vegetables well before they are as soft as you want. So once you pull out, you continue to go softer. Now here's the thing, I don't actually want to cook this yet. Like I want it to, because if I, if I cook it too soon, the whole loaf won't set in a disgusting little bowling ball, but you can take to work with you, right? So, you know, I've turned the heat off, and now I'm going to basically just overwhelm this pan with way more mass than it could possibly cook if it wanted to. And at the same time, what I'm doing is like cooling down the vegetables so that like, I can handle them, and I can toss this all together and turn it into repulsive little meatballs. It's all about efficiency here. I love the name repulsive little meatballs. Again, another high school make-day with my hair. All right, so if we're like eyeballing macros, how many oats you figure we want in here, Dr. Mike? Is there a real name issue here at this point? Or you want to do it again with my hand, it'll be fine. I mean, yeah, that's good. Yeah, all right, that's good. Dr. Mike has problems with peppers. So, we're only going to put in the adobosos, but that's fine. Like all the flavor is in the adobosos. Sprinkle sauce. Ah, it's the spanish? No, that's crazy. I've never used the spout feature. Oh, okay, yeah, good. There's a lot of fucking food here. Delicately massage this. God, I would never do this. Feel so good. Desert food, oh, yeah. All right, there's a complete meal right there. Where's that muffin tin? There you go. And it's not a real muffin. So you don't have to worry about it rising. So yeah, you just, you just build that sucker up as much as you want. Throw that fucking in the oven. We'll see what happens. Are you sure you want me to do this for fun? Come on, just throw it in the oven. You can do that, can't you? Well, let's find out. No, yeah, I can't because there are at least four distinct choices of where to put it. Just put it on the bottom one, there's room. You won't know that they're done because they look good because they won't look good. You're going to want to use the thermometer. And I would say go ahead and do a whole 160 Fahrenheit on these suckers. Say yeah, you wrap that sucker in aluminum foil. Take it to the work fridge. Throw it at somebody. And throw it at somebody. And at least you're not that guy like reheating fish in the work fridge. You know, let me like that guy. No, nobody like me. And these honestly, like in all seriousness, they actually are pretty good cold. See. No, too much salt, though. That's not bad actually. You have to eat it. I don't. Oh, he doesn't. Okay, poor guy. Poor guy. Well, you have to pull it out. But teeth poor bodybuilder. Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh. Yeah, this is a taste of games, my friend. Folks, I'm not cut out for the kitchen. Oh, me, I'm cut out for an artistic place of preparing food. This man is, he's got his own YouTube channel. It's 10 times bigger than ours. Where he does cooking. He talks about food science. It's funny. It's fun. It's educational. It's a learn how to actually make food that doesn't taste like shit. And you get to learn some food science as well. Check him out. His shit is going to be right here. If Scott the video guy remembers to put it there, all here. And links in the description. Dude, thank you so much for coming down. My pleasure. If you start noticing that I'm more jacked in future videos, this is the guy you think. I'm going to think of the pain he caused me. I'm going to try to cause my, I'm going to ask. How would Dr. Mike hurt me today? Replicate the pain. I will replicate that. Folks, it's been real. It's been fun. See you later. Yeah.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pre-Dization. Welcome back. Last week we had simple ways to improve your bench, but clearly that did work for you because you're back next week. This week for the advanced stuff, let's get into a advanced periodization to increase your bench. I will say, I would go back if you haven't watched the simple tips video just to make sure you're green, checkboxing all the stuff because if the simple stuff hasn't been done yet, a lot of times the advanced stuff doesn't work all that well, or it's just a put another way, it's much easier to do this simple stuff and get really big fixes. If you've exhaust of the simple tricks and they don't work anymore, or if you want to apply the simple tips in a more structured manner, this is the video for it. I would say, watch that video first. Benefits is you learn more stuff and also gives me more Lamborghini money and then we can all be on the same page. So the sequence to improving your bench press is almost identical to that from previous squat and will be almost identical or future weeks to improving your deadlift and it is as followers. You find the limiting factors in your bench press, you do hypertrophy work to increase the ability of those limiting factors, the smaller muscles that are pulling your weight so to speak, then you do a strength phase that you do a peaking phase, you test your max, great success, your max is improved back to the drawing board and repeat the process. So limiting factors, questions for you at home to figure out what to work on for your bench. Do you miss your benches at the chest or very close to the chest? Hold that thought. Do you miss the benches at just a bit above the chest where you would stop a spotopress for example? Google that shit. Or third, do you miss your bench halfway up or higher? Anywhere here or closer to lock out? Usually you'll be missing benches. Most of them in just one specific area. It's not like you miss some benches at the chest and some benches almost to lock out. Most people, individuals at any one time in their training career will typically miss the vast fraction of their benches at one and not the other two of those heights. So that's a big deal. In addition to that, if you don't train to failure all the time or if you haven't you know, flubbed any one or Emma attempts where the bench gets disproportionately harder for you works the same. Instead of do you miss your benches at the chest or very close? Isn't that at the very bottom? It's really tough and then as you push out it gets much easier. Whereas it's pretty easy at the bottom that you hit a slowdown and the low point midway and that it's easier? Or is it one of these things that it's not terrible from the bottom but then you get up to close to lock out and you have a really, really hard time. Based on where the difficulty is, you apply the same logic as is based on where the failure point is. Same. Same. Now here's the thing. The likely causes, at least the possible causes, which we're going to attack here are as follows. If you're missing your bench at the chest or you know, just lower down than that normal sticking point of two or three inches up, chest, size and strength is probably limiting factor for you. And if you had a bigger stronger chest you could probably miss your benches at another place but miss them at higher weights. You'd be stronger. If you miss your benches just a little bit above the chest, a couple inches above the chest, that's where biomechanically you should be missing benches if you're built like the average person. So you're overall pushing strength of limiting factor, which means we can steer a program to attend to that. And if you are in a situation where you're missing your benches halfway up past the midway point or higher, then triceps strength is more likely to be something that you were missing out on and then increasing the size and strength of your triceps is probably probably already number one. So for yourself, figure out which one of these is closest to your situation and then go from there. Now. After that, you figure out let's say, oh, chest is what is really limiting beyond bench because I fail at very low position in my bench press. You're going to design a program that trains limiting factor movements and muscles first or early in the program and slightly more off. So you're going to be doing chest work, early in your program, and a lot of chest work throughout the week. For example, you will still fit in tricep work and overall pressing work. You'll still do the rest of your program, but just less because if you do more of one thing, you usually have to do less of another because your recovery ability is finite. And what you're going to do is you're going to construct these muscles cycles, these training programs to put some fucking meat on your chest or triceps or overall, whatever it is that you were sort of diagnosed with in that first part. And you're going to increase the size of those muscles preferentially over multiple mesocycles of training mostly in the five to ten repetition range in a variety of exercises that target those muscle groups. That's going to be sweet. You're going to have much bigger and actually much stronger ability to press. Then you're going to enter a strength phase because you want to express yourself optimally and actually make the muscle stronger as well as bigger. You're going to switch around at that point to doing much more bench pressing first because strength phase it's time to get stronger on the bench and that means you need to practice fresh with the bench press more off and the actual competition lift. You're going to keep that limiting factor training and keep it hard still plenty of intensity still plenty of volume. Not as much as before, but you're still going to gain lots of strength in the chest specifically where the triceps is if they were all around. You're still going to gain even a little bit of size, but for the most part you're going to be doing this three to six wrap range, they are strength for the presses and for some of the assistance work like flies, which you can't go that heavy. It's not super safe. Do you do in the sets of five to eight in that wrap range? Once you get down with a strength phase, you will get into a peaking phase where you have heavy core work of your actual lifts and you have some accessory volume. After a few weeks, your accessory volume declines and falls off. After a few more weeks, your core volume starts to decline. That's called the taper. It reduces fatigue while your fitness stays constant or actually goes up a little bit. Fitness-mattice fatigue is preparedness, your abilities go up. You do a moderate max test and voila, your bench has improved. As a sample program, let's just say you miss benches like at the bottom of very close to the bottom of the chest. And we think, ooh, your pecs could be bigger and stronger and that would really help you in the bench press. Right? So, here's the thing, how would we do this? By the way, another test, just a random little tip at for you guys. Another test of if it's your chest or your triceps this limiting factor is find out what people of your relative strength typically do for close grip bench, full range motion and for regular bench and see where your close grip is relative to your regular. If your close grip sucks compared to your regular, then your chest is not a limiting factor. Most likely because you're triceps a relatively weaker. If your close grip is outlanderously higher than average, but your bench press itself is not great. It's your pecs that are brought to the lifetimes. This is another interesting way to corroborate that and find that out. But let's say you say, you can clear okay, I need a need more chest stuff. It's the chest that's limiting factor. Your hypertrophy mesocycles could look something like this. Three days of press training. Day one, you do a lot of sets of five to seven reps on the heavy end of the hypertrophy range. And wide grip presses do a little bit of tricep work after. Remember triceps are on the back burner this entire time. Sets of eight to ten on day two and wide grip incline and flat flies. More pecwork just a bit of a different angle for variation. A little bit of tricep laughter. Day three, you're going to do a technique slash recovery day. Lots or not lots, a few sets of three to six repetitions in the competition bench with a pause keeping those motor patterns fresh. It's a really good at venturing itself. You never forget how to bench. Really good technique. Pause at bottom. That's it. Leave the gym. Monday, Wednesday, Friday, for example. By next Monday, because that Friday was super easy, you'll be really healed and be able to get a lot out of that day one. Day two, you'll still be a little bit messed up from day one, a little bit tired, but notice the repetition ranges are higher and the movements are different. So it might enter not interfere with your workout at a ton. That's a really good thing. In Monday, Wednesday, Friday is a great way to do this. Also Monday, Thursday, Saturday is a great way to do this because Saturday, if you do the really light benches for a few sets of three, six reps, it's not a big deal and you'll recover no problem by Monday. So that's another way to conceive of it. That way, Monday to Thursday gives you more time to recover from those mega workouts. Strength Mezzo could look something like this. The first Mezzo cycle, which is a little bit of a lighter Mezzo, the second Mezzo, the heavier. Day one is you start with five to six sets in the wide grip press. We're still prioritizing the chest specific movements first, the first and the week. Day two, or some tricep work after that, no big deal. Day two, five to six repetition range sets in the competition bench. Now getting stronger at the very thing you want sets of five to eight reps and dumbbell flies after, still kicking it to the chest like we promised, a little bit of triceps. Day three, same as always, light work with a competition bench sets of three to six, maybe three to five sets of three to six at like 50% of our undergrad Max, easy work, technique, over. Get you a great recovery, great technical training, all good things. That's up another excellent week of pressing mark. Mezzo cycle two of your strength work getting ready for peaking is going to look a little bit different. Day one is sets of three to four in the paused competition bench. Now we have fully transitioned to be like, okay, this is specific training for that movement. And it's your first time going really heavy on that movement as well. And it's quite some time, a little bit of tricep work after that. Day two, it's all right there. Sets a five to six in the wide grip bench. Still maintaining that wide grip ability to increase our chest strength and some sets of wide grip in-clined bench. Also sets of five to six. And all of a sudden your pressing is as much better. But we're doing more core pressing and less flies and stuff like that. Really transferring our work into compound push. Day three, same as it was this entire program, easy work. Sets a three to six competition bench. Lastly peaking mezzo. Day one would be sets of singles and doubles in your actual bench stuff. Very easy tricep work after competition benching. Day two sets a three to four with a pause competition benching, slightly more volume, a bit more of a strength stimulus in that peaking paradigm. And a bit of wide grip benching, a sets a five to eight in a little tricep work after. Right? Still, we know chest is only an factor. We're still trying to bang that out as close to the peak as we can. Now after a few weeks, about two weeks, you pull that wide grip work all together. You pull it out of the program so that your body begins to heal much faster than it was being stimulated. Your fitness no longer goes up. It stays flat, but your fatigue stress to fall. And a week or two after that, you start to reduce the volume on actual bench press lifts. You do a taper, a little deal at the end, try your max. It'll almost certainly be better. The real core here is to pick good movements that fit your needs. If you're chest is weak, pick the chest movements. And just add five pounds to them every week. Try to maintain those reps where they are. When you get tired, do you load repeat? With this paradigm and this structure, this is my best guess. It had to increase your bench. And if it doesn't work, just throw something up a stupid fucking TV. If you watch me on your television, of course, if you're watching me on your cell phone, just crush the thing, but hopefully I don't stop ways to someone sees that. They're like, I don't really don't worry. I'd never do this to a human or all of them at once. That's always convincing. Folks, see you next week for more insights, probably on another thing. If I had to guess, please.

Tuesday we start with barbell skull crushers. Just like dad did them just like grandpa did them. Guess remember those photos you're grandpa showed you from the civil war. Uh-huh. Your great grandpa was doing skull crushers and that's what they got. They guys try a set. Hey folks, Dr. Mike Isrtele here for Renaissance. Here atization. Today's topic is to talk to you about a tricep growth program. The triceps are an interesting muscle. They do a couple of really cool things. One is they look enormous. I know it's so pumped right now. But they make your arm look really big because they're like, Oh, two thirds the size of your arm or two thirds of your arm. Upper arm volume is really triceps. So a lot of people say arms and biceps. They use those terms interchangeably. But if you have small triceps, your biceps look cool. And people are like, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. Buy some sick cool. You don't have big arms. How does that work? If they're very, your arms are big. So that's cool. Also, you know, it's great to have people close to your life. But sometimes you need to push people away and how would you do that if not with overly developed triceps. So you got some toxicity in your life. Gramas, get nine your nerves, get for a little gentle push away with your jack triceps. But you don't have jack triceps, which is why you're watching this video to find out how to get them. Let's get started. First of all, why not just train normally and then try some people get bigger. There's a couple of good reasons to specialize. So what is you just want your triceps to be bigger in relation to the rest of your body as it is now. Because if you especially don't have like genetically gifted triceps, let's say the average. As you gain weight and you go from 180 to 90 to 100, let's say, over the course of multiple years, putting on that much muscle. Your triceps will be big for 180, big for 190, big for 200, but they won't be huge. So you can do that. You can do that. You can do that. You can do that. You can do that. It is a big for 190, big for 200, but they won't be huge for any of those. So then I'll never stand out. But if you want your triceps to stand out, then you have to take them above and beyond. And that is what specialization is good. In addition to that, you can reduce how much work you do for other muscles, increasing how much work you do for the triceps because you're. Then giving them much more recovery bandwidth. And then you can get them even bigger, even faster, because when you slow down other muscles. And speed up the triceps, you get double the effect of the triceps, beginning to overpower the previous position in your physique. Just sweet. There's a lot of triceps. You can push grandma away. Get out of here grandma. Watching basketball tonight on the TV. No, no more of your stupid cooking shows. You know what? I feel even bad saying that. You shouldn't say things like that to grandma. Watch the cooking show with grandma. Maybe make her something on the cooking show. She'd love that. So can you train everything normally and then stack your more triceps training on top of that potentially yes. But you may get better results by reducing how much you do with other stuff. And that may actually get your better game. How much of the other stuff do you pull away? And can you prioritize triceps and chest and back and legs all the same time? The answer to that is you have to see how much you can recover from. So if you're prioritizing a certain number of muscles, which means training them more. than usual. If you try to add in one more to the priority, you might be like, holy crap. This is way too much. I can't recover. I can't train very hard. And this isn't working. And then you have the answer to your question of can I train triceps and chest and blah blah blah blah blah. So what I would say is. Start to train. You're probably training all of your muscle groups normally right now. Great. Keep doing that. And what you can do is take away one of the muscles. Let's say you don't care about for a while. Let's say you're back. You're all developed. You're like, I'm going to put on a back at maintenance volume just like five sets or six sets a week for back. Two sessions, two or three sets each. And then see how much that affects your other muscle group tree. And if that really improves other muscle groups because it really gives you a ton of fatigue bandwidth to recovery bandwidth to play with. Awesome. If that doesn't change things much and you can actually increase your volume for everything else without our huge effect. I mean, if that changes something, but you're like, man, like bought me a little bit of recovery room, but not much. Then you need to take other things and put them on the back bar. Eventually folks that either don't have a ton of time to train or really advanced body builders, be only able to prioritize maybe about half their body at one time while putting the other on the back burner. And that's just something you're going to have to auto regulate, try on air to see which one is good for you. So what do we say specialization? And you tell somebody, hey, I'm specializing on triceps in the next couple of months. What does that mean that we think you're doing? Or in other words, what should you be doing to really earn the title of I'm specializing on this? Because a lot of people when they say, they don't use the trim specializing. You get to the gym, you see when you're gym buddies, you know, people you don't speak to outside of the gym, but only in the gym. And they're like, what's your answer and you're like, I don't have one. Even though you do, you just live them. A lot of times I'll say, yeah, man, I'm really trying to bring up my triceps. Now we have to very clear and actually trying to bring up your triceps and doing a specialization program for your triceps can be two different things. Although the more scientifically and logically minded of us watching this may assume that they're the same thing. As if you said to someone, hey, I'm really want to bring up my triceps. You know, I sensibly would be trying to do something about it and organize logical fashion. But sometimes people don't think like that. When they say I want to bring up my triceps, it's just a desire they're expressing. And what they might do is at the end of their typical tricep work or push work or upper body work or whatever. They'll do a couple more sets of like rope cable extensions. Really feel a fucking, yeah, yeah, feel it right here. And that's what they call specialization, but that is not specialization. So what is specialization? It's a couple of things. First, you have to check the box of specificity. You have to choose exercises that you know from prior experience or are best guessing, you know, looking forward manner. Are your best bets for the triceps? They have the best stimulus. Hopefully the lowest fatigue at least the biggest stimulus. Like if someone put a gun to your head and said you better design a program that trains your triceps as much as possible and gets a most big as possible in the next two months. You had better be picking certain exercises over others. You know, want to pick dips when you know dips are shipped for your triceps. You don't want to pick overhead extensions when you know your personal experience. They don't do a whole lot for you. Make sure as hell don't want to do close grip benches if you're like, ah, truthfully that exercise really just trains my chest. But it's not going to be a tricep exercise. I'm going to put it down. Ah, you got to go under your head. You want to choose all the best ones. You want to choose the best exercises that really you know are your best guess at what stimulates that muscle the most. Not if you're very well educated and very long time training. Or trainer involved in training. You are not really making guesses anymore. You're making pretty solidified like I know for fact. These four exercises are going to nuke me. If you are very new to the process, you're making guesses, but that's okay. You make educated guesses based on I did dips before and they felt amazing. Ah, do dips again. Another one is modalities. Let's say you find that low-rub straight sets have worked really well for your biceps. Let's see find that drop sets have worked well for your biceps. Myorups. Even occlusion training. You put an occlusion band here and do extensions. Maybe that has worked well for your biceps. You want to pick the modalities that work the best. Because sometimes let's say you want to train your triceps and make them bigger. So we could say, yeah, man, sets of five. That's the best thing. And you read that in an article somewhere except sets of five for you. Just make your elbows hurt and they don't anything to your triceps. That's not the best modality for you. So if you include it into a program, you're not making it serious attempt at specialization. So any time you make a specialization program, remember we're sort of like putting all our best forces at the front lines here to really make a huge impact. And that we're going to want modalities like rappenagers, et cetera, that are types of training that really work. Similar with rappenagers. If you know that sets of 20 to 30 really just fry your triceps like nothing else. But you make a triceps specialization program that has lots of sets of five to 10. Somebody could ask you why are you doing this and you'd be like, well, it's important to train heavy, right? No, that's not what literature says at all. It's important to train through a variety of rappenagers, but bias to the ones in which you get the best effect. And so sometimes that means really objectively analyzing a training regards. I'm going to be totally honest. Even though I like to train triceps heavy, I know I'm going to get shit out of it. My triceps gets strong. They don't get big. Anytime I try to have some gotten a lot bigger, it's been through, you'll say, that's a 15 to 20. Then that's a lot of what I'm going to do. Not all, but a lot of what I'm going to do. All right, so you got to be very good with the specificity so that your program looks like a very serious attempt to grow your triceps. In addition to that, the idea of prioritization has to thread through your program. If you really want to make a biggest impact on a muscle, it is a very good idea to train that muscle when you're very low in systemic fatigue. We have high mental energy so you can really put that muscle through its places. And of course, low fatigue and other muscles that could prevent that muscle from being recruited super well. What that means is you want to train triceps first or very early. And many of your days through the week, if you're seriously attempting to grow triceps. So for example, if I train upper lower upper lower four days a week, and I'm like, I want fucking bigger triceps. On the upper days, I had better be starting to some kind of pushing movement, which trains the triceps pretty well. And then some extensions right after, or even extensions first, and then a pushing movement or something like that. If I'm saying like my earlier example, if I want bigger triceps, but I save my three sets of cable extensions, rope push downs for the end of the workout, would you as your own so tired at that point that the percent of my tricep total recruitment, I can reach using my very tired brain is now some fraction of the total. Whereas if I show up and train triceps first or train them second, man, I can really fucking fry them up. So at the end of multiple months of trying to train triceps, I can tell myself. Very convincingly that I really tried as hard as I could, and there's no way to really try harder and any meaningful extra. In addition, frequency is a big deal. If I had a dollar for the number of people that said, yeah, I'm trying to bring up XYZ muscle, but they train it once a week, I would have, you know, at least ten dollars. Just kidding, I would have more than that. Is it so common? The reality is almost all literature says, especially on a short and medium term weeks to months. If you want to improve a muscle group, you have to trade it with a higher frequency than you normally do. Right, unless you train with a very high frequency already. But we're not talking about one time a week for triceps, we're talking about two times a week at least and usually three to four times a week. Can you sustain three to four times a week, tricep training hard for months and months and months? No, but you don't have to. Because it's specialization phase can only last eight weeks and then you have much bigger triceps, but you're able to start to feel a little weird. So you go back to two times a week and everything's great, your elbows heel, everything goes back to normal. We're making sort of intentionally unsustainable pushes. Right, like if you're in a war, for example, a world war, world war, two-style conflict, you push, you know, your tank divisions across the front lines in sort of unsustainable push. But then whatever land you grab and it's a turn of 24 hours, you sort of start running out of fuel. You put up new defensive barriers in front of your tanks, you park them and then you get re-supplied right after that. You don't have to say, hey, like we're going on tank battle better better go all the way to Berlin with this one. I don't know, Berlin's really far away. We don't have to make that far. We just have to make it 20 miles and then stop and then put up a defensive posture and then hopefully hold and come back in. Same with triceps. You don't have to look at your triceps after eight weeks of training three times a day and be like fuck. They're a lot bigger, but my elbow is hurt. Well, that's okay because then you can pull back and here's this super super important thing that I have to say. Many of you may already know, but if you don't, this will be a big insight for you, maintaining the size of a muscle is a trillion times a mildly exaggeratory is a lot easier and takes way less effort than getting a muscle to be bigger. Actually, the analogy for combat hold 100%. The offending army, the army on offense, typically is down to like a one to three advantage or something like that with the defending force. Defending force has the advantage. So what that means is if you grab some land, you can hold it a lot easier than you can take it. So it's okay to do a whole shitload of unsustainable stuff to take land. And then once you're holding it in its stable, take some of the forces and supplies away from that and put them other parts of the front. Same with triceps. Same with anything. It's okay to go three times a week and hammer the shitload of triceps, but then to maintain that new mass only go twice a week or even once a week to train triceps and they'll be perfectly fine and perfectly stable. There's this huge illusion in much of training that what you did to get there is what you need to do to maintain there. That I struggle to find an instance in which that's actually true. Outside of like. Fuck, maybe nothing. Even if you're talking about some very linear process like you're swimming upstream and a river. You assume, you know, 500 meters upstream and then you're asked to continue to swim upstream, but not move at all. Just stay where you are. Yeah, that requires a whole lot more effort than staying where you are in a river that's not flowing against you. But it's still minus the velocity added for when you swim in. So it's still easier. But in the training it's way, way, way, way way easier, not even close. I would think about it probably much more like, you know, like if you got rich at some point, how easy is it to stay rich. Well, unless you do something really stupid and if I have decent financial plan, it's not that hard. It's certainly not nothing, but it's way easier than getting rich in the first place. And you guys know, I'm all about getting rich on this fucking channel. I'm, see how my stocks are doing. Really good. I got stocks on my watch. It just says like, Dow Jones, Nasdaq, it's just stuff like the green red. It's got all those things. No, it doesn't have any of those things. I have no idea how my stocks are doing to be honest. Scott is stock market, though, what's his, what's the deal with? Bad. That means buy more. Steven on the fuckers. Always buy. Always buy. But always like, where as they say in Brazil, beach a coin. All right, beach coin aside. Higher frequency, more prioritization training the muscle first and training the muscle with all the best weapons. And if we want to take a really serious approach, we could actually reduce other training to make sure that our recovery for our try. And if we want to take a really serious approach, we could actually reduce the volume of the muscle groups. Or if you're really, really serious, you really need to just uncorrect the try set training. You may reduce synergist muscles more than others so that the try sets get the least fatigue possible from other muscle training, which they're used. For example, you use your shit out of your try sets when you're training chest and often when you're training front front delts with prices. So if you want your try sets to be fresh, most of the time, and really trained hard and that the asked to do more work where the recovery is impeached, it probably be whoves you to reduce your chest training volume significantly. If you really want to make a big push for try set. Can it be possible to prioritize chest and try sets at the same time? Yes, but that means you can't get maximum growth for either one of them. You could do really well, but not max. When you're constructing your specialized try set training plan, how do we take all the stuff we just learned and put it in? Well, we have some recommendations for frequency. I would consider training the try sets three or four times a week. But start with twice a week and if that goes well, the next muscle cycle and next month or so of training, I would increase the three times a week. And if that goes well, consider increasing to four before pulling back and going back to maintenance. As far as positioning in the week, I would train the triceps right before chest. All right, so let's say you have a chest and try set day Monday Wednesday Friday. That means the first couple exercises of triceps, the second couple or chest. I know what you're thinking. But Dr. Mike, how am I supposed to get my chest jacked if my chest is being trained after my triceps are already tired? Well, the triceps limit my chest from growing as much as possible. So, absolutely they will limit. But that's okay because your part hasn't triceps, not chest. Another alternative is to train your triceps hard the day after a very easy chest day, which means that the chest has barely been disrupted and it's not fatiguing and it's not limiting factor for that tricep work after. And it's right after that easy chest day, you train triceps which means the triceps have multiple days to go until chest is being trained hard again. Because you don't want to train triceps really hard Monday, then Tuesday train chest really hard because your sore triceps will permit your chest from being trained as hard as you can. And that extra training could potentially interfere with their recovery and their growth. So you really want to cool it and spread out your triceps such that there's a big possibility, their fresh and then a plenty of time to heal their fresh and then you're planning to heal their fresh and then you're planning to heal. If you are prioritizing any muscle, specializing in any muscle and you're often training it with it's not fresh. And you're often after you train it, not giving it much time to heal before you hit it again, either as a synergist or as a prime mover. You're not doing the best job again. As far as exercises. Look at me clearly out of for the guys. Any tricep exercise works really great. All of it comes down to stimulus to fatigue ratio. But a core of heavy extension movements, like sets of 10 to 20 in many cases, even sometimes 5 to 10, is what really grows big triceps in most cases. What I mean to say is if you want the biggest triceps possible, I wouldn't do like under hand one arm cable extensions in most cases. Unless you can objectively demonstrate that your stimulus to fatigue ratio on that is just superior. Look if you get mind altering pumps from that crazy delayed onset soreness and your triceps just jump in strength all the time if you're doing these black and under hand shits. Hey, I'll shake your hand. And you'll probably crush my hand with your normal striaps. But the reality is that most of those exercises. I don't know what to say other than a lot of times they're just attempted being lazy and sailing and you're training. Heavy score crushers, heavy jam presses, heavy overhead extensions. Heavy good push downs with two fucking hands and you've palms here instead of your thumb limiting if you go under hand. That's the kind of shit that really grows you're not the bullshit. It'll be pretty stuff. And a lot of times the bullshit's what people want to sprinkle in because it's easy. Remember I often an example of how not to train your triceps to bring them up is to do the cable rope extension even one arm will say. At the end of a workout. No, no, we want to have the extensions first. And of course plenty of dips are often a good idea and super setting a lot of extensions to close grip work or to dumbbell presses. So if you do some squat crushers, super setting into close grip bench can be really awesome. And even better ideas doing some squat crushers and some push downs is a more exciting to dumbbell presses inclined or flat or shoulder press. Because with dumbbell presses your chest can't help. You're chest can't help. It's not a closed system. So if you have mechanically, if you if you try your triceps off completely like through the nervous system, you can still do a close grip bench just by using your chest because the there's no movement this way for your grip. So any movement here at the at the humorous pushes the elbow this way and it has to extend you can extend your arm with zero tricep involvement if it's a fixed point like a barbell. If it's not a fixed point like a dumbbell, you go one way this way. One way that way your triceps have to turn on hard. So then all those dumbbell pressing movements you do as a super set after an extension movement are limited by the triceps almost exclusively. And you'll notice that because your pecs won't get a lot out of it. Your pecs can really turn on and help a lot in a machine or a barbell extension or a barbell press movement after an extension because they can sort of come in and do extra work with dumbbells they really can't do that. So dumbbells after some extensions is a really awesome way. Cause sometimes just doing a bunch of extensions just doesn't hit you as hard as you want it to. And you're doing eight sets of extensions over the fuck am I doing here. But if you do a set of extensions and then go right into a set of flat dumbbell press full deep stretch and a full fucking lock out right around like, like, number five over here you're gonna be like, holy balls and triceps you're gonna be lit on fire. Alright, so that's a really good idea to do. As far as set numbers as always start with two to six sets of tricep work per session. I sat that much. A lot of times people will make the mistake of saying hey man, tricep prioritization I'm gonna fucking hit it hard bro. So they do 12 sets of triceps three days a week and they're first week. What does that do that? Fries are triceps to the bar. It damages them so much that it does two bad things. One, the direct damage actually causes a competition for recovery resources between healing you and growing you. You actually end up growing less, fuck that. And two, that damage makes you so so and so weak that it interferes with the amount of overload you can impose on a triceps in later sessions and even next week. If you took a week of training and like if you were trying to get a manicure you know like, oh I got to get my nails look a little better. You just got a hammer you're like, bam, don't do that. Right, easy and suited success is not that many. But after you get a really good pump and we're good feeling you'll sore for a few days then heals. You go, that was pretty good. And the next week you'll be able to do more and then more and then more and then more and remember the point is not to do a lot of sets. The point is to do the correct amount of sets that challenges you adequately and heals you just on time to do another hard workout. That's it. That's like when you go to restaurant, the point is not to eat as much food as possible. The point is to eat as much food as they shade. It gives you a really good type. Could be as much food as possible, but then your priorities are all fucked up. So loading and reps generally speaking there's only one recommendation here. Use the loading and rep ranges same same two sides of the same coin. To get the best stimulus to fatigue ratios possible the best pumps the best burns the best tension in the tricep. The best perturbation like always show my tries was fucked up. The ramping doing weird stuff the best delay nonsense so on us etc etc. And that'll be different between different exercises too. Some people get a ton of dips for sets of 10 but sets of 20 is just kind of your shoulders start to get really tired. And they're trying to super like yeah. Skull crushers might be great for sets of 10 to 20 for 20 to 30 or forms might actually just start burning. And then push downs might be amazing for sets of 20 to 25 even 30 reps. But if you do sets of eight with push downs they're like I don't know man. This is a heavy. This takes like 10 seconds total. I don't feel like I'm doing enough work to actually justify it so it really depends on the exercise. So as far as king what I will say is if you have heavier and lighter exercises in a session. So you're doing dips for sets of 5 to 10. Skull crushers 10 to 15 the same session. Do the dips first. It's almost always a good idea to do the heavier stuff first because heavier stuff requires a little bit of neural recruitment and you can't go heavy if you're tired. But can you burn out a muscle with higher reps if you're tired? Yeah, I can. So remember that heavier almost always goes first. Lighter goes second. And that means the conventional pyramiding thing. We do high reps first and then eventually you multiple sets later get to low reps is Dom is rocks and it's fucking backwards I wouldn't do. If you have a weekly structure which you should money was a Friday let's say. I recommend going heavier early in the week because what you do is you go heavier early in the week. Yes, your connective tissues will take a little bit of a beating. But you're fresh then that's okay. By the end of the week when you're going lighter you're not asking much out of your connective tissues. For example, let's say you weren't lighter earlier in the week and your elbows are feeling a little weird. Now I'm asking you to go heavier later in the week with elbows that are already a little bit pre-fetied. You might be into some pain and might not be able to do much. Now if we flip that order and we do heavy first your elbows will feel not so great maybe on Wednesday or Friday. But now I'm asking you to do light high reps stuff which actually might make your elbows feel better. It's like a little bit of a rehab at that and still get you a great workout. And then you take the weekend off you really, really heal and you go back to heavy. So it's kind of like heavy at the beginning of the week and lighter all the way through. It's backwards I know ideally if someone had a manhood shit you want to do lighter and then heavier and heavier bro. And the week on a high note but you're not trying to end weeks on high notes you're trying to grow muscle. We have to follow logical principles thereof. What about progress we know we start with two to six sets but what do we go from there. If you can heal on times of what you're no longer so we're before your next try sub session and you feel really strong again. You can add like something like one set to that session equivalent next week. So if Monday you train triceps you train them again on Wednesday and by Wednesday you were completely healed no so on us and you felt really fucking strong. Let's say that that Monday you did four sets next time you could do five sets. If you barely just healed on time for that Wednesday and you felt strong but you were like dude if it was three hours difference of a workout it wouldn't have felt a strong don't increase that period. If you just barely recovered never add sets if you're well recovered and you're like I could do way more and benefit. Add a few sets and see how it goes. So what you don't do is you're not trying to add sets you're seeing how your workout goes and if your workout's a little too easy. Add a few sets or just add one set see how it goes next week. So it's easy add another set then usually you get into a groove where workouts are great and you're not adding a whole lot of sets and that's close to your maximum adaptive volume right there. Rups and reserve as always or almost always start with like three reps and reserve in the first week and then increase load and or ups five pounds here 10 pounds here a wrap here two reps there over the weeks to make sure that you're getting closer and closer to failure until you're planned failure point or one or zero reps and reserve. Resurrect and reserve is hit in that last week before you do load. And that's it. And the entire time you're trying to beat your rep performance or load performance just by a tiny smidge. I can't repeat this anymore than I already have. Little tiny PRs week after week are the. Lifeblood of massive muscles and massive strength levels after some time. The idea of putting a shit little weight on the bar. Like week one you do score crushers with 100 pounds week two you like fuck yeah 115. Uh-huh. Not a good idea you should do 105 and then 110 and 115. But also you can raise your reps during that time if it's really too easy. And then it's sustainable your elbows on her your ego is not hurt you could do that again another month. And I'll send you're doing 130 for score crushers and you have fucking big triceps as opposed to going 100 115. 120 doesn't go that well you're actually weaker because you want way too far with the ones 15 you have to recycle deal with them and you don't even. I called deal with them and you don't even know where you are little tiny additions are almost always good. So that your reps and reserve drop by like one every week three hour and the first week then two then one then zero then deal with. All right. What does that look like so it's a lot of theory what does that look like here is a try sub training program you could try you could try doing this for a bit of. But remember if not the program is just a program so there's many ways to skin a cat and so I always say the cat hates all the ways unless it's a really really. The massacist a cat and he might like it by the way free promo to metrics RTD 51 because it has 51 grams of protein that's an interesting advertising strategy two grams of carbohydrate and two grams of fat not bad and it tastes like. Oh, I got. It coats the throat with I don't know what. It's a fine drink to find drink it works. It was on sale at my hour. What are you guys more all right. Tuesday Thursday Saturday we train triceps in this plan. Let me tell you guys about the RP hypertrophy app with over 28 preset programs already in the app you could choose to make your own you could modify an existing program or you could just run the programs exactly as they were written by. If we go to the e-person, this app programs everything for you exercises weights sets reps frequency the whole thing after every single workout and every single week the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one you never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. download the RP hypertrophy app today. Tuesday we start with barbell skull crushers, just like dad did them just like grandpa did them. You guys remember those photos of your grandpa showed you from the civil war. Uh-huh. Your great grandpa was doing skull crushers and my mother fuck, big ass tri-sets. Slap generally across the face, backhand slab, holy. Slot a bone there, bam. In any case, barbell skull crushers for two sets of five to 10 reps. That's heavy, but for many people, that's right in the money. Barbell skull crushers again, sometimes when we put out our team full-run programs to our team full-run training group on Facebook and Instagram, you guys can find us. There's probably links below to sign up. We'll do barbell skull crushers barbell skull crushers and people will be like, is that a typo? Nope. It's down sets. So you do barbell skull crushers five to 10 reps, a three RIR, and then you lower the weight and do them for sets of 10 to 15 reps. A lot of times that can check a few boxes. One checks your heavy training box, which is sweet. And another one is after you go heavy, if you go light after with the same exercise, you're so grooved in, you're so potentiated for that exercise, that that lightwork feels amazing and you're super strong even on that lightwork. So sometimes a down set is, or a few down sets is everything the doctor ordered. And then after that, you go to incline close grip, eventually this routine we designed to put triceps on the front burner and packs on the back burner. You need any other pack days for this. This is all of your pushing more. Incline close grip bench for two sets, 10 to 15 reps at the end, three reps and reserve of that Tuesday workout. Should be right here. I look, that's not gonna get your chest to hold up bigger, probably not any bigger, but it will maintain it, which is awesome, it's all we need. And because it's incline close grip, oh my God, your triceps are already pre-feteed, it's just more like hammer bashing your triceps. This is gonna be, this is a tougher team. Thursday, okay, we know that our triceps have multiple ways of working, multiple heads, and they work best from different angles. So we're gonna go overhead on Thursday. And that's partially by design because we're gonna go back to a different plane of motion later on Saturday. But we sort of want some variation. We don't want to hammer the same structures over and over and over. We're gonna give them a break. So all of our work is like this and like this. On Tuesday on Thursday, all of our work is gonna be overhead and then more horizontal. So we're avoiding the exact same angles day after day after day. So easy bar overhead extensions for two sets of five to 10 reps. Again, easy bar overhead extensions, down sets for another two sets of 10 to 15 reps, amazing, should have really pumped triceps by then. And then check it out. As we were talking about earlier, flat dumbbell presses for two sets of 10 to 20 reps, really fries the triceps, helps the pecks grow or maintain a little bit awesome stuff. These are all programs I've done in the past and they've worked tremendously well. I have like gigantic arms as far as I can tell, but my my steps aren't that big because my triastopes are fucking insane. And I owe it all to this kind of bullshit. He's like me, patting myself on my head. Good job, Mike. You've big triceps. Yeah. Saturday, we start with weighted dips because yeah, for some people they work really, really well. Weighted dips for triceps are kind of like squats are for quads in a certain sense. Some people do better with leather extensions and leg presses and hacksquots, but good old fashioned high bar squats are fucking awesome. And good old fashioned weighted dips can fuck your triceps up in a big way, especially if you go deep. And especially if many of our technique videos recommend, instead of pushing your chest forward and doing this, staying upright in really bending at the elbow, puts a crazy stretch on the triceps at the bottom of the movement, amazing stuff. Weighted dips for three sets of 10 to 15 reps I'm assuming you're strong here, enjoy. After that, you do a drop set, or drop sets, three drop sets of cable push downs, which means you basically get in there. And there's a couple of ways to do this. One is you could just do drop sets the entire time. So you do a set of 100, sorry, a set of 28 reps, what is it? 10 to 20? I set of 20 reps at 100. You go down to 75, you do a set of another, whatever, how many you can do three reps and reserve. And you go down to 65 and you do another one, another set. You could do it like that. Or these can be drop sets that are within sort of clustered within each set. So three sets here could mean you do 120 and then you do 60 for let's say 10, you rest. You did one drop set situation, you rest for normal time, two minutes or whatever until all the four factor checkbox are done. And then you go when you do another set of drop set. So it's two and two and two, that's three sets. That's brutal. Interpreter this anyway, you like. You can try one of the other. Just make sure to do them consistently. After that, way to dips, got the heavy shit done. cable push down drop sets, got the light shit done, you're trying to survive. And then you do deficit, close grip push ups, OMG, tricep destruction and your pecks get hit pretty well. This program, if you try it, you had better have a really good volume tolerance for try subs to begin with. I'll put you this way, if I was doing this exact program, I would take a set off of the priority here and there, I actually can't survive a program like that, unless I'm weeks into training and I'm really used to. Right off hand, I can't fucking do this, this is way too much for me, so be careful. Now, these volumes will change. So what happens with multiple weeks of adding sets, multiple weeks of adding weight and multiple weeks of reducing how many reps and reserve getting close to failure, it could look, it could look something like this, just for you guys as viewing pleasure. So barbell score crushers, we started at four sets and four sets, sorry, we started at two sets and two sets in the first week. Finally, we could be doing four sets for each one. Inclined close grip bench, sorry, two sets could be three sets at the end. How committed increased more for inclined coach group? Because we're on purpose not trying to increase a lot of chest work, most of the increasing on the triceps. All right, try some program. Two sets and two sets for easy overhead, try some extension in the first week, in the last week, four sets and three sets, flat dumbbell presses go on that day and that Thursday, from two sets to three sets again, same pattern, we don't want to increase chest work at ton. For Saturday, weighted dips start at three sets, cable push downs at three sets and then deficit close grip push ups at two sets and then it's so three, three, two and the ends up at four, five, three. That five is because a lot of times drop sets, you fatigue so much set to set to set that adding more and more drop sets, doesn't fatigue you that much more or give you that much more of a stimulus. It does a little bit, but you have to do a lot more additions. Like if your third set was 80 pounds for a set of six and your first set was 100 pounds for set of 20, adding another set of 70 for set of five, drop set. It's not that much more work. It's not like adding another set when you're super fresh and rested. So drop sets, you can often add more. That doesn't mean you should try to add more. It's just a lot of regulation you're realizing, oh, if I added a set, it wouldn't be that much, but do. All right. That's the program. Next question, one of the last, how long to specialize for? Ideally, you want to specialize for a training block, which means three mesocycles, increases for several weeks, three to five week increase, deal load. That's one mesocycle. Ideally, you would do three of those stacked together, triceps, triceps, triceps, triceps. Start with twice a week, trice up training, and the first one, then go to three times a week, then go to four times a week. You try sets and elbows and shoulders and trash by the end of that. You take an active rest phase or a low volume maintenance phase, and you come back and you can either train the rest of your body normally, try some some normally, take another specialization, your specialized on chest now or quads now, or you can do another triceps specialization program. As long as you take that either active rest for two weeks after, we're a low volume resensitization phase for four weeks after, one of those blocks, three mesocycles of triceps training. You can eliminate so much fatigue after those that you can do another block after that. So you can just perpetually prioritize your triceps, turn into Kevin LeVron, Google Lab, and be like Holy fuck, the hell happened as triceps. Mostly genetics. As you go from one mesocycle to another in that specialization phase, you may choose to lighten the loads a little bit, or rather not lighten the loads, do more of your training in the higher rep rangeers, because as you increase frequency from two to three to four times a week, your ability to recover, joint and connective tissue-wise, day to day to day, may drop considerably, because the days are more frequent. You might start doing lots of sets of five to ten, and the second meso mostly sets of ten to twenty. In the last meso, many sets of 20 to 30, so that you're not relying on your elbow integrity much anymore, because it's just not there anymore. Then you take an active rest phase, or you take a low volume, resensitization phase, everything heals up, elbows shoulders, and you can go back to heavy training a little bit less frequently in that next run. You can change exercises when you feel like an exercise, we get you a better stimulus to fatigue ratio than the alternative. So what does that mean really? That means if I'm doing over-air tries to pick extensions, and they're just going unfucking believably, I don't take them out. I do a whole mesocycle with them, and after the meso, I think about it. Should I do this again? Well, my pumps towards the end were amazing. My elbows didn't hurt at all. I love the exercise, the mind muscle connection is awesome. Fuck it, I'm keeping it in. Whereas if you had some cable push downs and towards the end, they felt kind of like, you kind of work connecting with them, and your elbows kind of hurt a little bit, you weren't getting super great pumps, and it took you a lot of sets to actually get anything to work. Then maybe you take them out, you replace them with some other alternative. You know, jam presses look pretty cool. Remember trying them, and they felt great. I'm gonna try them on the my D-Load and see how it goes. So that way exercise deletion and replacement occurs more naturally, sort of more organically, in the sense that when you need to delete and replace an exercise you do, based on it has a better SFR. And if you don't, you keep it in. A lot of times, you've lasted a question of like, should I rotate my exercises every time I do a new mess of cycle? Every six weeks should I do an exercise? I mean, all that. Question is only answered yes. If you're saying, well, there is an exercise here that's really low in SFR now, and I can do a much better job, stimulus to fatigue ratio, why is if I choose another exercise? If that exercise is still golden for you, fuck man, you can do an exercise for eight months straight, and not bad of fucking you. Voila. That's it. That's all we got. Now, you may have watched this video go, holy shit, that's a lot of information, but how do I build man program or how do I learn more about this? We have some links in the description for you, and I will tell you about a few of them. First, we have a free exercise video library. We're tons of exercises, program usually, or sorry, demonstrated by I-F-VV Pro-Jerred Feather. So those look really cool, you can see like, what the fuck isn't over at easy bar tries to bookstanti them? What is it talking about the whole time? Look at the video. Oh, okay, and I'm actually in the, we should not have the volume. I'm in the background talking through the exercise, describing how to do it. Really simple videos, each one's like 30 seconds long. Yet you go on on the right technique. We have a muscle group training guide where it's basically all the stuff I said, except broken down into a million pieces, with super high level of detail and complexity. That's something RP website will link it right in. So it's all the muscle groups there, try some spikes, substitutes, etc. All have their own guide, each one's like 10 pages long. Frequency, volume, exercises, modalities, all that stuff is in there. So if you really like, wow, before I try to prioritize my triceps, I really want to learn a shit load about how triceps work, and how to best train them, and all the exercises I could use, read those articles and hold you fuck. You'll be way ahead of the game. If you need a refresher course on some of these terms, and on the general principles of training, because you're like, what the fuck? You keep saying SFR, what's the fuck is that? Hi, Portrafy made simple. Link below 16 videos or something like that. Each one of them, like, eight minutes long, tells you about sets and reps and failure and rest times and stimulus and fatigue, so that you can understand all the stuff that's made super simple, so you can get you going and get you growing triceps, which because that's clearly the important thing to do in your life. If you want to learn a shit load more at a very deep level, we have the hypertrophy book, scientific principles of hypertrophy training, co-authored by myself, Jared Feather, Melissa Davis, and James Hoffman, and that's a sweet book. It's super, super highly-indapted. It's hundreds of pages long, tons of citations and all sorts of crap, and it's not free, but it's cheap. All right, see? I got your hooked up. Can't do free, but I can do cheap. If all this sounds really great, and you want to build your own program, but you're like, fuck man, you know, Microsoft Excel, is that how people build programs? I want to build custom program, one of my supposed to do, do I just make it on my iPhone Notes program? We have our custom training template, builder program. It's a hundred bucks for you to build a six-week routine from our website, and it's download it as an Excel file for you. Thing is though, it's not a hundred bucks for six weeks. It gives you a routine that you designed. You tell us which muscles you want to train, so you would say, I want to train in five days a week, and I want to put triceps on specialization. There's actually what you compress specialization for triceps. Put all the other muscles that you want. The program gets turned into you, and you can drop down all the exercises you want to use. And thus you can use it for six weeks, and then use it again for six weeks, and use it again for six weeks, altering the exercises and the repringures a little bit to your liking. So if you want a tricep program that lasts for 18 weeks, the entire three mesocycle stack together, you can buy that for just a hundred bucks. And if you ever want to come back to it a year later, it's still there, and you can use it again. So yes, it's a hundred bucks for six weeks program, but at last you weigh more than six weeks if you want, it can last you 18, 24, 30, all those number weeks. So it's pretty sweet. In any case, all that stuff is below. So is the like button, so it's a subscribe button. Hit that shit. If you guys want to know tons more stuff and get access to much more in-depth insight, and early releases and special releases of videos, you don't get on the main channel, consider subscribing to our membership shit, which should have like a join button somewhere around here. And it's fun. It's a party. So come join us. Folks, thank you so much. See you next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pyrridsation. Today's topic is how does alcohol affect your recovery? Oh boy, you've friggin' can't swear early in the YouTube video, apparently, the algorithm? Alkie's in here. You sober up, pay attention. Put your earphones in. Take your hands off the steering wheel, move park your car. Don't drive. Here we go. It turns out that alcohol has upsides and downsides for recovery. Upides of alcohol for recovery, now I'm listening. What are they? First, alcohol can let you relax more, which is a big deal. People who have like a few drinks on some evenings after work and really less than whine down that f-bucking huge deal. Number two, alcohol can let you be more social. And it has been shown time and time again that social interaction is like damn near a panacea to a shitload of conditions, including generalized recovery. If you get to spend some social time and great situations, great people, it's a huge effect on your recovery, which is also a big deal. If you can be social without alcohol, your boy needs no drugs to be social. Fuck, butterfly. Shut up, Mike. What's that? I'm talking to 800 other people. And you're good. But if alcohol really helps you get out of your shell and chatted all up and have fun, hey, that's definitely a benefit. Number three, alcohol can increase your appetite. You guys know when you have two drinks at the restaurant before appetizers come and they're like, what do you want? You're like, oh, I got a fucking list. And she's like, what the fuck? I don't have a drink. I didn't mean to. You start crying at the restaurant. They can't keep you out. No way. I don't want to happen. They're like, oh my god, thank you for asking. And you order half the menu. Because some people get them munchies when they're drink. I don't mean drinking a fucking gallon and them throwing up all the munchies. I mean drinking a couple drinks and then like get a whole hungry need lot. If you have recovery problems because you're never eating enough, then your couple drinks get to eating. Hey, that might be at a very least some fraction of benefit. Next, alcohol can car blow to you. If you have like five or six beers and they're like not the light beers, the full on beers, that can load up carbs wise. And then the next day in the gym, if you slept well, you slept so you stopped drinking early. How do you get nice sleep? You can come in. Get the pump of your life because you're so carb loaded. We have to nod that that as a thing. And number five, a lot of people have an experience with alcohol work, eases them into sleep. And sleep is whole potent for the recovery process. It is kind of like the king of the whole recovery court. Who's the queen? Oh yeah, the queen is like just relaxation. And the jack is like personal time to destress. He's like man, shut up. Anyway, sleep is a big deal. In a falka halps you sleep a little bit, get you to sleep. We have to come thin in the positive column. Amazing. So the combination here just to review is drink as much as you can and you'll recover. See you next time. Just kidding, you're still with us, right? Then God, it's got to be there. How many people do you think? Well, great. Clip, alcohol, I think that's alright. I'll hang on here every limb. Bad news. Alcohol has some downsides as well to recover. Hopefully nobody put the YouTube phone down after this. It's not possible for tons of alcohol related maladies. Six downsides, at least that I can think of first. Alcohol is a poison. You guys know that. It actively poisons you. It had high concentration poisons you a lot and that falks up your recovery to basic biochemical level. That. Number two, alcohol directly and via hormonal pathways interferes with muscle growth and repair. That. Number three is it disrupt a bunch of other hormones that are good for recovery. Bad. Number four is alcohol dehydrates you, which is a big no no for recovery. Bad can be mitigated with drinking, you know, a ton of fluids outside of actually boozing, but the very least is annoying. Number five, even if alcohol gets to sleep, especially if you drink quite a bit, three or four drinks or more, you can notably and predict it will be disrupt the sleep quality of the sleep that follows and often you end up waking up earlier and you're like, if you really stress, then I'm awake. So if the alcohol hubs get you to sleep and more alcohol still helps get you to sleep, sometimes against your own will passing out. There is a chance that that has a net benefit, but as you drink more more alcohol, the net benefit gets crushed and reversed and now it's a net negative. A net cost because yes, it still gets you to sleep, but the sleep duration is shorter. And especially the quality of the sleep is so much lower that you know, she lists. Yes, you're sleeping, but you're not recovering. Right. You've ever seen someone in the New York City, you know, next to one of the clubs, it's four in the morning and they're like, past out, sitting up, like right by the club. Like, they're not as open, they're coming out. Is that I did? No, that guy's alive. Barely. And I'm like, he's got a clubbing shirt on still. And you wouldn't walk by that scene and be like, recovery. It's going to be so ready for his next work. I'm like, they're sleeping on cement slab upright. He's going to be at all kinds of paint tomorrow. And that's not good sleep. That's his body being like, hey, let's shut it down so we can not die. That's your computer on sweet mode. It's not making any updates. Point number six, alcohol and some situations can make you do dumb shit that hurts recovery. All kinds of things seem like good ideas if you're drunk. Even things like, let's dance the night away. There's not a lot of really jacked people in serious athletes in dance the night away. His dance to that away is kind of its own sport, a sport, by the way, which I'm globally ranked at. Look me up. I'm a Scott how many times have I won the ballroom dancing world championships at this point? Scott's laughing is the stop coming. It just got old. I want to challenge. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's the hot dog guy, right? Yeah, yeah. You're stuck with the sweat and so there's a good show. And I still do it at home, but I don't even go out anymore. I don't even show off anymore. So what are the implications here? Alcohol can be good for your recovery if you don't drink it or if just one or a few drinks gets you to do more of the good stuff and gets you more of the benefits. If it relaxes you, it doesn't hurt your sleep. It helps you eat a little bit more, helps you socialize. Then hey, gravy. Enjoy, but you're going to be honest about it. You got to see it. It's not that hard. After you drink for a week, like let's say every other night or a couple drinks, you have that week when this far as recovery. It's not fucking rocket science. You're doing yeah, I felt great. You've gone next week. You don't drink and you're like, I know I feel afraid of frasal little stress from work and ever kind of relax. It was hard to get to sleep. Fuck that. One should drink tonight amazing. Whatever. But if you're like, you know, had a few more drinks or wondering if you're going to do it for you, you can be honest with yourself. And I guess of course, that was not helpful and I shouldn't do it or I shouldn't potentially do it. I understand that it comes into recovery downside. Recovery is not everything. Sometimes you have to have some fun, but just know what you're getting yourself in. And lastly, alcohol is bad for recovery. If you drink a lot a lot, like getting drunk all the time, it's not good for recovery in almost anyone. But also just one or a few drinks if it doesn't get you the upsides, like it does for some people and it's just you move them down sides. Then just don't drink because it's just way more downsides. I'm sorry, you can still drink. If it gets you some other upsides, they didn't list here, but certainly for recovery, I just wouldn't recommend it. So quick personal insight. I really did try through my 20s and now through my 30s, I've tried a few times to really get into drinking. I know that sounds crazy, but I have the opposite of alcoholism genetically. So I'm like, I don't like people are like, oh, try this beer. It's so good. It smells like something went wrong. I hate the fucking taste of it. I hate the smell. It's off beer wine. I've never had an alcohol drink which I actually enjoyed. Unless it was jungle juice that one time when I was 22 years old. Four cups of it and I turned to my friend who was putting on the party and I was like, hey, hey, how many drink equivalents would you say? Is it each cup of this that I just had? She's like, I like two and a half and I was like, per cup, but she's like, uh, I was like, oh, guys, did that in 20 minutes? I just had 10 drinks in 20 minutes. I drink three times a year. Either say there were times where I would just teleport to places. I was like, oh, I'm in a new place. Who am I talking to? In one point, I was talking to this one girl I knew from high school. And she was saying things from alpha's moving, but what I was here was like, I was like, oh, I was like, oh, I don't understand language anymore. Unbelievable. So maybe it's not good for me to have alcohol that I think tastes good. In any case, when I have a couple of drinks, especially recently, um, I just like, uh, I think I've reached a point where I'm about as social as anyone can be like, I just don't have social anxiety anymore. I don't remember last time I did. A back when I was younger, I had a ton that when I was in college, I had drink every now and again and it would really help me socialize. Nowadays, I'm like, just a fucking chatty, cathy. I was like, go meet random people in the street and I'll probably. And so when I drink alcohol, it doesn't make me any more social anymore. I have to have fun, but it just feels sick right away. I got headache after like two drinks. I start urinating everything out of my body. I'm like, this is just annoying. And I also get like, a little bit more combatant than like, kind of like, comfort, a confrontational outwardly, but in my own head. I'm like, someone says something. I'd normally like, oh, that's silly. In my own head, someone says something. I had like three drinks and I'm like, that's funny, stupid. And I'm like, oh, uh, uh, uh, and yeah, this is not for me, right? So am I really Russian? Jesus Christ, but that was I adopted or some shit. How does this happen? So for me, I don't drink alcohol, almost ever. Roll the dice and just not landing in the right fucking spots. If alcohol works for you in moderation, in a way that can promote recovery, amaze. If alcohol means you have a ton of fun, but it hurts your recovery, just understand the margins you're making trade-offs at and work from their logic. If you want to hear more nerd stuff like this, more into the weeds, then give our members area a try. It's five bucks a month and you get extra videos every month. And we have a team full-round forum, links in the description where you can ask me a bunch of questions and I reply to them in video chat with a huge community of members. You can assess your physique progress. We can give you feedback on your technique. If you post it, for example, on video of your deadlift, we can show you how to do your deadlift better and work with us week to week. Everyone in the forum is super friendly and timed. Everyone is there to help. Everyone's very smart. Except for me, I usually just learn from them and try to do that. That sounds stupid. It does always work. Anyway, guys, thank you so much and we'll see you next time.

If you've done the thing with apps like my fitness pal, for example, you log all your food for the day. It's a gun account of protein from your subway sandwich wheat bread, as well as the protein from the tomatoes and the onions in there, as well as the protein from the chicken and cheese. And all these other foods where you're like, can I know that bread has protein in it? But isn't it better to get protein from meats and milk products and eggs? Don't those like rosso better? Am I really eating a gram per pound of the rye kind of protein? How much of this protein actually works to get me a good shot? Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. And today's video is going to be about protein quality. We know roughly how much protein folks need in order to get their most lean and most jacked and most healthy and all that stuff will talk about that in a minute. But there's another question we're going to try to answer. And the context of that discussion is, what kind of protein should that be? And are you getting the right kind of protein to make it so that you get all the good results? Or are you getting some of the wrong kinds of protein such that you're eating enough? Sure. But it's quality protein and then you're not getting the results that you should be. Let's dive in. So first thing is how much protein do you need? And for maximizing your chances of the best muscle growth outcomes and retaining muscle, we at RP seem to think about a gram per pound per day is good. So if you weigh 150 pounds, then you're going to have a lot of protein. And then you need something like 150 grams of protein per day. Now that's a little bit more than most literature reviews say is a good idea to take. And some of them, if you read the literature reviews on protein, all the studies combined in a certain slant, you could actually conclude that you need substantially less than a gram per pound to get all the good stuff that you need in most cases. Maybe even as low as 0.7 grams per pound. So this is one of these situations where if you weigh 150 pounds, it could be quite true. To say that even 110 to 120 grams of protein per day is absolutely sufficient. On the other hand, a pretty decent body of new literature has come out and literature examining people who are training at ton and specifically people in fat loss diets. This literature shows that maybe a little bit more than a gram per pound is a good idea in some cases. 1.3 or 1.25 grams per pound per day. So for someone who is 150 pounds, then maybe for them even 175 grams of protein per day a little more than that is going to check those boxes. For us, we really like the gram per pound per day, but with nuance. So our best recommendation are P.S. As follows, he for roughly a gram per pound per day of protein. Again, if you weigh 150 pounds, 150 grams, and with less or more depending on some circumstances to use two extremes, if you're lifting weights only a few times a week, you're doing lots of other activities. You're maintaining your body weight and muscularity and not currently trying to improve, but you don't want to reduce it. And you're eating a maintenance diet where you're not losing weight. You can eat definitely on the low end. If you weigh 150, 120 grams of protein is going to be almost certainly good enough to keep all that muscle to keep you healthy, keep you fit, keep you functioning. It's going to be great. On the high end, though, if you're training a ton, like five or six times a week, an hour to half in a time, very high volume. My hypertrophy training for the whole body, and you're also potentially in a caloric deficit. So you're trying to lose some fat, and you're really pushing to the extremes, then yeah, maybe something like 1.25 or 1.3 gosh from hownd is a good insurance policy to make sure that anything is wrong with your diet. It's not you not getting enough protein. And that's kind of one of the big things for this video is to put a little bit of a buffer. If you eat a few too many grams of protein, worst case they just get burned up for fuel. They're not toxic. They're not bad for your kidneys. In this case, in the other hand, as if you underate protein, you just don't gain as much muscle. You lose more muscle in your supposed to, so that's no way. So we have kind of those two extremes. A gram per pound is just almost never going to steer you wrong. But a gram per pound of what? Because if you've done the thing with apps like my fitness pal, for example, you log all your food for the day, and you're like, oh my god, I got many like 300 grams of protein and I only have 200 pounds. This is incredible. But when you look at the foods that's taken the protein from, it's foods like rice, it's food like beans, like whole grain bread, like regular white bread, and all these other foods where you're like, can you know that bread has protein in it? Like something I think called like protein quality. It isn't a better to get protein from like meats and milk products and eggs. Don't those like raw muscle better. And then the questions are, well, how many of those do I have to get in it? Am I really eating a gram per pound of the right kind of protein? Or am I off? Like one way or another, should I be eating more? Am I eating more than enough? Let's dig into that. So a first question we have to answer is what protein quality is? And there are a few ways to go about this. All of them are very good. All of them have slight downsides and upsides. My preferred way to this day is to use the PDCAAS, the protein digestibility, corrected amino acid score. What that basically does is it approaches protein quality from two perspectives. One is protein is composed of amino acids. And amino acids are the building rocks of protein. And when your body builds proteins, it doesn't do it from whole proteins that you eat. It breaks those down into amino acids. And then when it builds your own proteins, it means a decent amount of each amino acid in order to build something. Let's give an example. If you have a house and you take it apart and you keep all the copper wiring, you keep all the glass, you keep the steel, you keep the microcircuitary, you keep the wood. And you take it apart in such a meticulous way that you have everything roughly like as it's supposed to be, almost clean and untouched. What can you make from that house? If I told you that you have to make another house or something like it, you kind of have all the components. But if I told you you have to make a server farm, like a very small room that is able to house computer servers, you'd be okay, we just don't have enough electric wiring because like a house typically isn't wired like a server room. So we're missing a component, even though we have the same amount of house stuff, we don't have enough of the specific components we need. And honestly, we live like way too much wood. And so for protein quality, if you have a similar distribution of amino acids that the human body makes it stuff out of, which isn't super complex or exotic, it's really straightforward. You're going to go. Then you can take the protein that has those break them down into individual amino acids and feed those amino acids into all the body processes that build proteins from there. But if you have another situation where you have a bunch of some types of amino acids and almost none, we're very little of a couple of types even. And when you go try to build your house sort of speak, you run out of electric wiring and you can't do the job. So some kinds of protein, even though there's lots of amino acids, there's not enough of the right types. And I was going to say too many of some types, too many is not a problem because you can just use them for energy, it's just the fact that you don't have enough of certain types. So part one of protein quality is to be like, do we have the kind of distribution of amino acids that we typically see in the human body? Is that a zero or one answer? It's between zero and one, various gradations of like this protein has kind of so many wacky amino acids we don't need a ton of. And so few of the ones we really need that like it's just really bad source of protein and eating even almost infinite amounts of it still doesn't get you to build all the protein structure and the muscle that you need all the way to like damn dude. This protein source is almost perfect and has enough amino acids and enough ratios to where the human body is just like using almost all that protein for the kind of stuff we want like repairing cell structures and making you jacked, which is definitely the most important thing of what we want. So that's part one of quality is amino acid distribution. Part two is the degree to which you get digested and absorbed. There's some pretty good protein sources that the way they come packaged in the foods that they exist in, they just go almost through the digestive tract mostly and just get pooped out the other way. And then even though they're pretty good and your body could use them, their digestion absorption is such crap that like you actually don't get almost all of what you eat or some fraction of it goes down the drain. And so if you think you're eating 50 grams of protein in a meal, but it has like let's say 10 grams of that as such poor quality protein it basically doesn't count how you're really eating 40 and let's see only half of it in some strange way, digests and absorbs, functionally your body receives only 20 grams of high quality muscle building protein from a 50 gram protein meal. Just apply that meal out by five. You say you're eating 250 grams of protein but really eating 100 grams and less than like 100 grams of protein for some of the way 200 pounds, this is not enough by almost any cataloging to try to get really good muscle. It's good enough for health but nothing outside of that. And then you know if you're eating 250 grams of protein that's great 200 is great even 150 works but 100 is not enough. So in such an extreme illustration which can happen if you do some wacky stuff, we'll talk about it a bit. From you're not getting enough of the amino acids you need and you're not getting enough of the proteins digested and absorbed and thus in the scoring system for the PDCAAS, you are going to score very, very low. So the scoring system combines amino acid profile and how much of these amino acids you digesting and absorbing actually utilizing until one score and that score at the bottom end is zero and at the top end is one. It's the same as scale roughly as a divide 100% by 100 and you get this scale. So the way I like to imagine it is like percentages. You don't have to do that. Zero and one is totally fine. A score of zero means that let's say we have like our handful of protein snacks and we've designed them to have a PDCAAS score of zero. You eat it and we measure all this stuff in your blood and your muscles to see how much protein was delivered and it turns out it was none. We could literally none. That sucks and that is like the worst possible case and even if some of the amino acids got in it's like insanely high levels and one amino acid or two and the other ones are just missing so your body's like, I can't build anything out of this. It's like, hey, I build me a house and the builders like great whole teams there construction workers are like, well, we got like we have a pile of sand and you're like, okay, we can't build much out of that. Like like if I can get go over the sand, no, no, I'll add you a sand plus a shitload of wood all the wood you can use like because we're not building a lot of cabin. We're building a modern home. It's going to be like steel. We do like glass. We do like all kinds of different ceramic mixtures and everything. Where's that? We just didn't buy it. Okay, so functionally you might have like enough wood to build a house and even more than you need but you're not getting the right stuff. So that's score of zero. A score of one means from everything that you eat. Protein, protein snack, design of the PDCA S of one. If it's 20 grams of protein, you just ate that is 20 grams of protein or damn close to it that is in your bloodstream. It goes to your muscles and it does all the good things that we want. Full sand, it's exactly what you get. And we call scores of closer to one high quality and we call scores significantly below one lower quality. Typically high quality is 0.9 in above. It's a very similar to the grading system in most schools where like an A or an A minus is 90% in above. Scott, what was an A minus in your schools growing up? For such wise? Yeah. 92. No, in way. 92 is an A, right? I think it was I think 94 and I was an A and 90 to 94 was an A line. That makes sense. That makes sense. Yeah, yeah. Yes, and also depends on if you have A pluses. I actually like the plus system a lot. So my shit is 90 to 92.99. And NNNN is an A minus 93 to like 96 or depending on how you like to do at 97 or 96.99 is an A and then either 96 or 97 plus to 100 is an A plus. But in any case. I don't remember a different school district. Yes. It was like all over the place. Totally totally totally. So at the end of the day, it's kind of like in grading where like if you want to be a controlled straight A student, let's say A starts at 90 like you don't do the plus minus system. Anything above an A is really good. And it's so interchangeable that it just doesn't really make sense to overindex on the specifics. Anything above 0.9 is awesome and where they are for it. It's called high quality. And low lower quality is actually anything under 0.9. Now the lower you go the worse, but anything under 0.9 is we're going to try to see if we can get some higher quality stuff in there. And to that extent, there are a few other concerns. One, the high PDCS score is good. But another thing you want is enough loosey. Loosing is a specific kind of amino acid that if you have a little bit of muscle growth doesn't get triggered a ton. But if you have enough of muscle growth gets triggered. If you have more than enough, nothing magical happens. It's kind of like loosey seems to be one of your muscles best detectors. For like if we have enough loosey and we're getting growth started. If we don't, even if we have lots of other amino acids, we might not grow as much. So we're also looking for high loosing sources which are almost always integrated in the PDCS score. So real quick, let's go through a couple of sample foods and look up what their scores are. And there are various technical reasons why they have these scores. I'm going to spare you guys, but if you want to look this up, you just ask JGPT and it'll tell you all about it. So gelatin, which is a hydrolyzed form of collagen protein. So they have roughly the same score. Has a score of 0.08. So like if we did percentages, 0 was the worst 100 was the best. It has an 8%. So like when something is collagen, protein in it and it's the majority of the protein is collagen, it is the one of the lowest quality protein source. So if you happen to be Caucasian, offense Caucasians, all jokes, love and respect, you go to a super expensive grocery store, isn't your LA neighborhood to buy a collagen protein shake because fitness and fluency are growing TV told you like, how my god, the like collagen like supports your bones and it builds your muscles, it turns out collagen is like a dog shit protein. Sorry, it just is. On the literal technical grounds. And even though the gelatin is really fun to eat and you can bounce it off walls, not a high quality protein source. So gelatin very low point 0.08. Actually, you know what, I'm just going to go on a percent's nutritionists that are formally trained by apologies. Easier heuristic for us to use here to teach. So remember the PCA score actually 100 is this divided by 100, but we're going to want percent, because it's easier. 100 percent, great protein 0 percent shady protein. 8 percent for gelatin. We proteins such as gluten has a 25 percent part of that is because it's just not very easy to adjust and it's also incomplete. It doesn't have all the amino acids. 47 percent for rice, 54 percent for corn, 57 percent for oats, 58 percent for lentils. So lentils are often described as high protein and they are, but this is just not enough methionine, one of the amino acids. And so they're not just going to get you jacked by themselves. Kidney beans are 60 chickpeas are 65 peanut butter is 70. Remember 70 still too low. They get psyched trying to say you're a really good student and saying I get straight 70s. Not a thing. Soy protein isolip.9. Boom. So soy protein okay and we'll let you jacked. Absolutely. It's a complete protein and it's awesome. If your rare complete plant protein is kinua and kinua, which I used to think was kiona and I just assumed that was a black woman's name. Is that cool to say? It's a .92 or 92 percent, which is really, really good. So kinua as they say colloquially. Tofu is a 93. So here's the thing. I say from this list from soy protein as a 90 to kinua at a 92 and on is officially a high quality protein source that you can eat tons of in your diet and get amazing results. And you don't need to worry about adjusting for anything. Fish for example, salmon has a 95 chicken breast a 95 beef a 96 pork a 97. The other right meat. This is protein powder and eggs both have a 100. That eggs are actually the gold standard and what the PDCA score was derived from later they tested way and way isolate way hydro protein and a derivative of way called BLG has a 1.04 raw score or 104 percent. Way is actually more anabolic. There's more muscle by teeny teeny tiny fractions, not only to take home but just kind of cool to know than even the reference standard egg that they base this off. So that's all the protein scores. You have kind of a lay of land of what's going on and we see that most plant sources are just not up to standard, just a few of them are, which is why a lot of people say stick to animal sources for your protein unless it's the plant sources that work. So the next question and the big question of our chat today is what fraction of our daily protein because here's the thing when you do your tabulation in any of the nutritional tracking apps that usually just going to use raw scores on how many grams of protein you have for any food. So if you go into my fitness pal it's a gun account the protein from your subways and which wheat bread as well as the protein from the tomatoes and the onions in there as well as the protein from the chicken and the cheese and you got to be like how much of this protein actually works to get me a good shot. For optimal muscle growth and muscle retention it seems like getting about 75% of your daily protein from high quality sources point nine PDC or above 90% or above is a really good best practice any more than that's not really required or has a huge benefit and he less than that and you will marginally pay the cost of not getting his jack. And the rest 25% or so can come from low quality protein sources no problem. So if you are counting the subway bread in with your protein as long as your diet's not like 50% bread protein and the rest regular protein year golden as long as your diet is like 75% of your protein that you eat comes mostly from the meat and then the cheese and only 25% or less comes from the bread and other stuff then you're good to go. That's a big deal. Now that doesn't mean you need to only eat animal proteins you can mix rice and beans together they form a complementary source because rice has a bunch of certain kinds of amino acids and some deficits and others, beans have the opposite where they clip together and then actually make a complete protein source that's of decent quality. You can do that. There's tons of great vegan sources but high quality protein sources should be the core. However you can eat low quality ones that even count them in as long as they're just not roughly more than like a quarter of your protein intake. That's a big deal. I have to say a few other things though before we close out that are very important. Your body does treat protein on a daily situation. So if you underee protein earlier in the day you overeat it later there is some compensatory adjustment. However it treats it much more fine-tuned meal by meal. So what I would tell you is in most cases it's a really good idea for you to treat every meal as an opportunity to get that 75 to 25 or better ratio of high quality low quality proteins which to me I can actually distill for you guys into really super simple practical recommendation. If you're doing full-send real good effort to try to get jacked and get lean and all that stuff being the handsome and look like Scott the video guy then what you want to do is make sure pretty much every single one of your meals of the three to five times a day that you eat roughly evenly spaced. You want to make sure that every single one of those meals pretty much is built around a core of high quality protein. So whenever I'm making a meal or whenever I watch someone and watch people all the time sometimes they don't know about it sometimes they don't know about it sometimes they don't know about it. Then across the street with a telescope in the window with that work Scott. Is that how light works? Yeah. I like see like one of their skin cells like as big as this and that and that's where it really gets me going. Like you know my huge fetishes violating people's privacy with them not knowing it and if I can see a whole skin cell of yours with my god I mean that's Jesus that's that's so intimate you don't even know it looks like that. I got to a level of privacy better than you could do in your own home in any case to hell am I saying I watch how people make meals and cafeterias and blah blah blah what they order I watch how I do it and what I'm looking for to just green checkmark my ability to say this is a good meal for muscle growth is I start building every meal around a core of high quality protein. It can be a high quality vegan product. It can be a soy protein shake. It can be a giant ass bowl of quinoa that has enough protein in it and some cheese and some shit for other stuff but usually it's going to be milk, egg or meat based products of some kind chicken breast fish all that stuff beef, eggs, egg whites, egg protein powder, milk, cheese, way protein powder, casing protein powder that's going to form the core of my meal and from that protein I want to get damn close to my daily total. Let's see if calculated that I have five meals a day just in an example. I need 200 grams of protein and I am calculating that okay that's 40 grams per meal so that every meal needs about 40 grams of protein. What I like to do is make sure that when I'm ordering a subway or a chipotle or making a meal at home that I take my protein that I have and that core of high quality protein good animal products good vegan products is like 35 grams at least and if I get to 35 grams of protein from chicken breast and the other 5 grams are like the wheat bread that it's on and some of the sauce has some protein in it. Hey, listen, I'm good to go but if I only have like bread and potato chips as a meal or I have like a little teeny, Scott you ever get like a sandwich somewhere and there's like one slice of turkey and you're like who the is this for how are you insulting me with this bullshit is this for a child is it are we in poverty times and so yes it might have some meat in it but 10 grams of high quality protein in a meal that needs 40 it doesn't kind of matter what else is in it it's not going to be enough. So the easiest most simple way you can just not have to worry about protein quality ever is that every time you reach for a muscle building meal your meal starts with a core of milk or eggs or soy or quinoa or high quality vegan blend or chicken or steak or fish or something was God damn protein in it that's high quality and no peanut butter does not count as that. Scott you ever seen them women's magazines and videos for females ladies no offense the three and half of you watch this channel offense um it's like it's just a classic like almost like kitchen at this point reused thing of like a super healthy looking young woman with a very excellent skin care routine dipping a perfectly cut green crisp apple slice into an adorable little cup of peanut butter and then the taxes like peanut butter can boost your protein and take good to have as a snack how many times do you see next year? Infinity. Dude and the thing is is that yes peanut butter has protein but it's very low quality protein it does not come any more close to our 90% cut off so it's kind of like when you're teacher when you're running a class and your late your teachers are crazy Nazi person and they close and lock the door at the very this guy you ever had teacher like that that close lock the door and like anyone who doesn't get it on time just yeah that's kind of protein quality works here in our understanding so peanut butter like just gets the door slammed in its face because it's at 0.07 day and not at 90 or above and then it just doesn't really meanfully contribute to protein unless you're combining with other stuff then the other stuff has to be high quality and protein from peanut butter does even get digested all that while and the whole thing down the line so that's important to remember because not all proteins are created equal and so if that girl instead of having the just beautiful plate of apples which have almost no protein in them whatsoever and peanut butter which is not the kind of protein we want for the most part and also mostly fat and not protein if he was just to take that meal change nothing about it and put a big ol glass of skim milk or 2% or even whole milk next that month then now we rolling now we have a protein course the protein core for every meal is the best possible thing that I can tell you and is the biggest TLDR of all time so for those of you who are pressure in ton psychic you scroll to just this part of the video and need nothing else now if you're trying to put all this together in a big diet plan and it's all painful because what the hell is dieting so complicated the RP diet coach app exists I help make it myself and it's just a super straightforward app that keeps track of all of your meals you can tell it your goals it'll make a meal plan for you can enter any food that you want in it you can even give you suggestions and all of a sudden boom it's got to diet coaching your pocket and updates all the time it reminds you about meals it keeps you on track for fat loss for eight and some muscle gain that's also linked in the description give it some thought in any case I've been ranching for enough go out there and get goddamn protein core whole food meal and make yourself more jacked and if you see someone around you at a restaurant not ordering it make sure to snub at them oh my word how you ever gonna grow any muscle with that your buttless must be furious with you grab your gold purse and your gold chain and saunter out and I'll see you guys next time

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pre-Dization. I have a list in front of me of all of the details and perks and bonuses and super awesome things about the upcoming New year's sale. So let me just get right to reading them so you can get to listening to this and go on to buy stuff. Here's the thing It's running from December 28 to January 8 so plenty of time to buy Next the RP Diet Coach app is going to be in a bonus subscription price for 89 99 annual subscription. That's $15 a month and then 89 99 annual. It's a huge savings give that some thought Next templates of ebooks are going to be something like 30% off but a few of the special items will be up to 80% off Please do check that out On our on coaching which we almost never discount. We really discount it once or twice a year is 10% off. That's a huge deal get one of our extra PhD coaches to take you all the way through a diet or training process With a big discount and lastly a peril is 15% off folks get to the RP website as soon as you can buy as much Tough as you can because Lamborghini is simply do not buy themselves so you guys next time Hey folks, it's me Dr. Mike and welcome back to another episode of hypertrophy myths Today's myth is alternating press and hold and as usual for these myth videos we're going to talk about What the myth is the actually good things that they can convey and advantages it can give you Some of the bad stuff which is clearly the mythical part and then some take homes real talk to let you know Which way to go afterwards. We don't just want to beat up on a concept and See yeah, we want to beat up on it and say okay, this is what we learned and here's how to make your Better training even better stone so The myth here is people do this thing with dumbbells and I'm sure you've seen it before they take two dumbbells out They press the dumbbells off of chests. I'm going to sit there and they will Press with one arm until some number of reps is achieved and hold it and then they will press the other with the other arm And then when they finish they're rack both dumbbells and So there's wait hold on a second what's the myth like that clearly happens the myth is that this is a good idea Okay Well hold on a second we have to cut it some slack what kind of slack can we cut it? How to be honest with you guys when I had this topic come up and I We decided to make this video I go through when I have a template just you know the myth the good the bad and the real talk and I sat here and thought about how this could be good for a Little bit of time maybe more time than usual and it still came up with almost nothing What did I come up with well? It didn't it builds an interesting and cool looking skill it's kind of funky and Need to be able to like I symmetrically hold something and then press something else things that's kind of neat And it might transfer well to some activity that occurs like that It um I did think about this for a little bit and nothing came up. I'm not that smart though And I'm gonna round the world and see no whole lot of sports So maybe there's something that you do in parkour or some shit that does exactly that Nothing comes to mind. I'm sure maybe some of you guys can hypothesize in the comments below and then The other thing is Maybe it's cool to bring up just like one pack or one delta one tricep because one arms is symmetric that doesn't cause a lot of hypertrophy The arm that you're moving actually grows and You can use the thing is if you said okay, I have a dumbbell and I have a bench and And I want to train one arm only with presses you can't just take one dumbbell out of the rack because as soon as you press it you'll fall over So by having this dumbbell in your hand Even an extension if you like it allows you an auto balancing so for that it can work Later you will see why other other many very many better ways to do this so What is the bad number one is the Alternate arm gets as the French say and since I studied in France for many years colony expert I will use some French today if you need to turn on Google translate I'll wait All right, a litiart as the other arm becomes a litiart So you start out with your right arm and you do ten reps the entire time that you're doing that You are isometrically holding a weight here and that tires out the tricep front belt and just And so when you're done pressing ten reps with the one arm You move on to this arm and you may get something like five or six reps Unless this arm was 20 or RIR and then you can do both There is a way that if you start with your dominant arm Sorry, you're non-dominant arm you start with your weaker arm you can get them to balance out more But you need to have a hell of an asymmetry for like 45 seconds of isometric fatigue to equal reps And the quality of those reps after you've tired your systemic abilities out here Then you have to hold this out and do this None of the arms are really getting a good workout and especially that second arm so There's not a whole lot of antibiotics stimulus that comes from isometric especially locked out isometrics Like if it was mid range isometric your muscles would have to work harder But it's really like loading the joints and the stability function in the muscles and your nervous system for paying attention to that This just not a lot of growth that comes from that and not a lot of strength and just got down it not a lot of anything kind of sucks The next question is what the hell is the benefit of this versus just a two arm press like normal And the answer is not much if any now it is really true that there is something called a bilateral deficit When you produce force with both sides of your body Technically speaking and is in at least some cases you can produce more force per half side if you don't work with the other half So like you can single leg press often more than you can two leg press times two or divided by two So if you can double leg press let's say 500 pounds Typically you can single leg press maybe like 300 pounds So that doesn't add up because it should be 250 but because you're not using one leg Your nervous system and your focus can be more on the other leg and you can actually push more with that side Um However, this tends to happen almost exclusively in highly stable scenarios the way they demonstrate this in the laboratory Is they literally tie you to a fucking single leg leg extension machine and then you do a single leg where the whole machine is Holding you in place and you can really just grind into one leg In this scenario it almost certainly wouldn't happen and when ends up happening is depressing with the one arm You probably won't get anymore reps with that one arm versus pressing with two arms and except getting double the benefit and half the fucking time So in this case it probably doesn't do anything anyway, and is thus not a great idea And you could say okay, but there may be a situation in which if I really like this exercise I'm practicing for a while I really can get it to be stable and I can grind a couple more reps out with each side Sweet that'll only be in the first set because then you'll get so tired holding them and won't happen in the second third and fourth sets after But even if that's the case if we're training for hypertrophy and muscle size Then why would we want marginally more force production? Anything in the five to thirty rep range and they can comment and force you have to generate to get those kinds of reps There's already roughly equivalent for hypertrophy anyway So if you can brew so a little bit more force like why don't we just produce a little bit less force and Two more reps There's just no good reason I can think of that you would do such a thing and if you say well to hold on But what if we're training for strength? Well if we train for strength then you want a super stable situation So this is completely ruled out for strength to begin with so it's like a Bad for strength for sure and then we're like, but what about hypertrophy then it's bad for that too So it doesn't make a ton of sense now here's the thing there are better alternatives to doing this and that sort of critique number three First of all you can just take the dumbbell and Leave it on your chest for the non-moving arm it'll rest on your chest provide the same counter balancing And you can fucking crank this one out without having a fucking detired hold on the other dumbbell out for no goddamn good reason And then when you switch you put this dumbbell down and then you go with the other arm it's weird It's wacky it's still probably stupid, but at least it's better than holding it out at extension I'll tell you later or why I think people do the hold out of extension, but it doesn't make a whole lot of sense There are many better alternatives if you do insist on training in a lateral for your packs or try to try Substant shoulders, which is maybe a fine idea Yeah, I will say for those of you curious and at some point we should make a video about this Unilateral training in general is insanely overrated five-perjury of strength and has some uses in Sport performance and carry over, but it's just it's much more a parlor trick than anything that is useful It has its uses I'm not insulting it, but it's not this magical thing that everyone needs to be doing And I'm sure if you you two right now Everyone needs to be doing unilateral training. You got a hundred fifty fucking videos by people who are mostly wrong If you do insist on unilateral training and there are good reasons to do it There are like a trillion better ways to do this one of them maybe the best is a hammer strength press machine and you have the hammer strength presses You can load the same weight on both sides You take one handle and you grab it, but you don't push it out you just grab it so that it stabilizes you and then with the other handle You do as many as a fucking process as you want Then because you wasted almost no energy holding that handle because it was just static and you did not even lifting the weight It's still on the fucking support you can grab this and then do this Problem solved you don't have to do this weird dumbbell nonsense for no reason whatsoever It's tough. This is a tough one because I'm trying to cut it so much lack and it's no slack coming out What is the number one reason that people do this exercise my gentle hypothesis Is that is dumb shit they learn in high school football man? That's just what they're doing football because you got a hold fuck man a bat and you got a puncture way through Whatever stupid shit that people justify to themselves is way too much specificity and way too little overload It's not something you should do in the weight room the way you make better football players is you get them to take Debench press and increase it by however many percent is possible and then they just the rest is football technique and handled in the actual On the football field training with offensive line coaches and stuff like that and you all you need football players to be generally strong And generally explosive you don't need to do one arm at a time crazy fucking bullshit another thing the reason why people do it is it looks cool And it maybe a little fun to balance it's definitely not boring. You know, you don't really do so many dumb Expressing the gym and turn like I need a little change and sometimes people change to this and You know it gives you attention at the gym There's always some like jackdoo dude played football at a relatively high level. It comes to the gym and it takes the 90s And he presses them both they're like all right and then he just goes like this and someone's like dude You do in that with one arm Holy shit. It's not thinking it through so there's definitely that but I will say this If you want to be jacked You do shit that works You don't do shit that looks cool but clearly just doesn't make any fucking sense. I will say If you can rationalize this if you can steal man the one arm at a time dumbbell press while you hold the other arm in extension Please do so in the comments and I don't mean that facetiously I mean seriously like I'm on a no-bun I don't hear about it. I want to hear we have to say and if you say some cool shit I'll I'll holler I don't give you props and if you say some stupid shit I probably won't say anything at all Or just be it that we're all say dump shit every now and again. Maybe this video stupid Maybe there's a magical reason I didn't think of That's the case hit me up in other words Bye shit link subscribe biotech talk box wipe whatever people say. I'll see you guys next time

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. Today's BS topic is asking a question. Really, they can't a statement. We will potentially refute. And it is the idea that artificial sugars, artificial sweeteners more particularly, are messing with your insulin response. This is quite a popular claim, and people will say, well, look, I know artificial sweeteners don't have calories. That's kind of been refuted, and some people will even attest to, okay, fine, you win that one science. But I don't consume them personally as a man of God, but also because they spike your insulin, and that's bad. Somehow, they never really get to any of the details about that, but don't worry we will. So let's take a look. It is true. There is actually a thing where sweet taste as detected in the mouth area signals the secretion of insulin, generally in the body. Upon detection of us, we taste in the mouth, insulin is secreted. And that has actually turned the cephalic insulin response, cephalic for head. And it does occur with sugar in gestion, which is sweet. Your body detects the presence of sugar in the mouth, and then begins the insulin response, so that when the sugar gets through, it's got insulin to transport it into the cells to make them happy, and that's how science works. The cells actually smile under microscope and kidding, of course. Or am I, get out your microscope, pinch off some skin, get in there, let me know what you find in the comments below. Now, in some animals, specifically rats and mice that have been tested, there can be a cephalic response, which is insulin is secreted upon presentation to the mouth, with artificial sweeteners. So if you give some kinds of rats and mice or artificial sweeteners, they do have an insulin secretion response from those, which is a trip and it happens. However, on the net balance of the evidence, it seems to either rarely or never happen with humans with artificial sweeteners. It looks like the best available evidence shows as of today, exactly what happens. Yep, as a right now, that humans need the actual sugar molecules themselves to trigger this phallic response and that the artificial sweeteners just don't do it. If artificial sweeteners did trigger a human's phallic response, you could predictably upon the presentation of a lot of artificial sweetener, potentially cause a hypoglycemic episode, but I have actually never seen anyone or seen anyone report, the induction of hypoglycemia, which is when the insulin gets into the bloodstream, looks at your normal blood glucose and goes, hey, get in the cells. And then your bloodstream is super low on glucose because all of it's been pulled in the cells and because your brain feeds on blood glucose, it goes holy crap and you start getting really sweaty, super hungry for carbs, light headed, confused, potentially can pass out, also for the bad stuff. Some of you may have been hypoglycemic before, it doesn't feel like great. Unless you get some carbs in front of you, then it actually feels great because it's the hungryest you've ever been for carbs and they taste so good when you're hypoglycemic. That just doesn't seem to happen with artificial sweeteners. I don't know how many people have ever had a diet coke and they're like, holy crap, I'm going hypog. It just doesn't seem to happen corroborating the laboratory observation that humans just don't seem to have a cephalic insulin response with artificial sweeteners. Now, the cephalic phase had a few studies and artificial sweeteners back in the day showed that it occurred. So artificial sweeteners didn't seem like they may be to a small extent helping insulin secretion occur. But then like 10 other studies after and multiple different design parameters, just showed that that really wasn't a thing. So our best available one so far as it probably doesn't happen. Now, if it happens to a small extent, is that bad? Well, what is wrong with insulin secretion? I don't know. Insulin secretion is a normal part of response to food. If insulin secretion occurs without a presentation of caloric foods, so just have a diet coke and it secretes a little bit of insulin, somehow, maybe that happens. What happens is your blood glucose will temporarily dip that will be detected by your body. And another hormone called glucogon will signal the liver to dump a bunch of glucose into the blood and re-raise that blood glucose. Right now, when you're body, right there, now, insulin and glucogon are both active. They're working to counterbalance each other to keep your blood glucose stable. So unless you present a super powerful modulator, that really secreats a crap load of insulin and outruns the glucogon response temporarily, you won't be hyperglycemic, you won't have any symptoms, which is why you don't get hyperglycemic and don't have symptoms when you consume artificial sweetness from almost every year. So it's just not a thing to worry about. You may say, but hold on a sec, even though we can't feel it, isn't it bad to have insulin spikes every now and again, even if they're really small spikes? And to you ask, why would it be? And someone is not a harmful hormone. If you have insulin spikes chronically, insanely high, we're out of normal range all the time, because you're eating a crap load of junk food all the time. And your insulin's always sky high, that, but mostly because of the fat cell growth for me to have in a calories in the constant presentation of carbohydrates in the blood, can lead to the dysregulation of insulin, pre-diabetes, type two diabetes, and then bad things. But that's a whole lot of steps and a whole lot of magnitude effect that ends up being kind of like, up to strain this analogy too much, but like, trying to throw a paper airplane to the moon, theoretically, yes, maybe if you had superpowers or something, you could do it, but it's just not in the same realm of any number of magnitudes. So even if there's a small suffallic in some response in some people, it would be insane to project that this would be a bad thing, because insulin's not a bad thing. Cronic, excessively high exposure to excessively high insulin, all the time is definitely not good, but we're talking about years and we're talking about magnitudes that if you didn't have carbs coming in with them, would make you pass out on the spot. And that's just not a thing. So as far as insulin dynamics and artificial sweeteners, I just wouldn't worry about it. Certainly for the time being, based on the literature and probably ever. So next time someone says, but my insulin's just be like, ah, JK, never punch your intellectual opponents, always be respectful, pay your taxes, brush your teeth, tell the tooth there I said with sub, and see you guys next time.

It turns out that protein bars can be healthy. Or can be very unhealthy because legit a lot of people think that because food is healthy and protein bars are healthy if they're making that assumption that they can eat as much of it as they want. And the idea that food just because it's healthy won't make a game weight is total BS. A lot of people may protein bars are just to have like whatever how many protein bars makes me full when I'm like, mmmm, that could be the right answer, but it could be a very, very not right answer. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength. And today's question is, are protein bars healthy? There are certain foods that are just known to be healthy. Fresh fruits, right green veggies, Scott that um blended green veggie smoothie thing that rich people make in their white robes in the morning, in their also green juice. In their also white Miami riverfront houses, sometimes even those people are also the messels white, you get it, right? Scott, why don't we go to one of those pditi white parties? Oh, we have one set up. Actually, yeah, now hosted in the New York County jail. For real though, we actually know what kinds of foods are super healthy. We do. Lean meats, veggies, fruits, whole grains and healthy fats, like most plant fats and even believe it or not, high fat minimally processed dairy products, like whole milk and cottage cheese. So long as calories are in balance with activity and you're not on trend to gain weight, those foods are very much the core of healthy foods. And we probably all have a pretty good intuitive sense of what that is. And on the opposite side, there are of course foods that are like, and kind of rightly, people understand generally are not healthy. Young foods, especially ice cream, potato chips, fries, corn chips, Doritos, cookies, tortilla chips, candy bars, dimension chips, or as they call them in the United Kingdom a few other places, crisps, squat, what you look like a crisp thing is there is no such thing as an English accent because there's like 80 different accents in England. Well, in crisp. You may. Yes. Oh, I got that. Yep, that very same. But what about protein bars? Our protein bars healthy. This question is a bit of a trip because on the one hand, protein bars seem healthy. They're like for fitness and stuff and they have like health branding a lot. They have like protein and stuff like protein's supposed to be healthy, right? There's like macros in there, Scott macros are healthy, right? We're supposed to want to do macros. I love them. I love macros, direct focus. But on the other hand, they're also like oftentimes very artificial and their ingredients and that's kind of wacky. They have a lot of sugar, some times sugar, alcohols. Sometimes they can be really tasty so you can like really overeat them. And like are they low or high calorie or what? What's the deal with protein bars? Now, this is where we get to the real meat and potatoes to answer this question. And I mean meat and potatoes completely figuratively in this case because protein bars bars have neither meat nor potatoes in them protein bars. What does I say? It turns out that protein bars can be healthy. Or can be very unhealthy and it all depends on just a few simple factors. I'm going to tell you these factors and you're going to be able to decide no problem if protein bars are the right way to go in your diet or maybe not the right way to go. Factor number one is the protein to calorie ratio. And by the way, these factors are roughly in order of importance but very rough. And I'll tell you which ones are less important. This one's super important. Protein is something you need as the core of your diet and you plan to have it. And it's also pretty filling. Especially if you're not eating enough protein getting enough really gives you a ton of fullness. And if that can commentantly comes in a protein bar with lower calories, you can eat multiple bars and get hours and hours of full until your next meal time bought in. And you don't bring in a ton of excess calories. On the other hand, and that makes it very, very healthy. On the other hand, if you have protein bars that are low on protein and high on calories, you've been to a gas station and you need a protein bar. And there's one I'm like no offense, natural vegan super earth bars. And it's like now with protein, you look at it's 6 grams of protein and 55 grams of carbs. And you're like, is this not anything but a non-technical lie? Like how is this legal to say? All right, or it's all nuts. So there's like 30 or so. Yes, yes, I'll actually get to that later. Like the protein quality also sucks. Yeah, and the fats are insane. If that protein bars, low on protein and high on calories, you'll just have to smash all either multiple bars like that to get enough protein. And then you're really up in calories or you have to smash like a bar or two. And then get in other high protein foods like a shake or like a canotuna. And then that adds to calories as well. And then that balloons your calories up even more, which can lead to unwanted weight gain from a high calorie surplus. And then that's absolutely not healthy. So high protein and a bar low calories is good, low protein with high calories, not great. Factor number two is palinability. Stefan Giene, I think I'm saying that right, who was an excellent follow on Twitter, A.K.A. X. Is a scientist who basically popularized the food palinability reward hypothesis. And at the time that he did it, it was a giant brain explosion. And nowadays I think more people are familiar with it, maybe not the technical term, but let me describe it to you really quick. And if you're a long time viewer of the channel, you're going to know what the hell all is says. I'm not telling you something that seems obvious, but it's actually quite revelatory. The taste of your food is the more likely people are to eat a lot of it. Think about it. Like I bring you to a party, I bring you that sounds like I can nap you. Fine. I kidnap you and bring you to a party. You look like, oh, I wear hair. I just don't want to see that. They were all in good. Shut up. And then I give you a tray of broccoli, fresh, green, washed, cut up broccoli. How much broccoli are you going to eat? I mean, obviously you're stressed. You think I'm going to kill you and where you or skin is a coat. Scott, I'm not going to look exactly that. Not in that order. Anyway, first I'm going to wear a skin then. Okay, this is getting too much. What if I give you a fully baked, oh, man, Scott, I got this. Open, made fresh pizza. And the first thing you say is this is delivery. And I'm like, no, it's Dejorno, you idiot. And we get paid. Dejorno ads. But like with pizza, Scott, have you ever had one slice of pizza on any occasion in your life? I actually don't think so. I've done two. Wow. Diet Scott. Pizza some shit. Potato chips of some shit that you start eating and you don't stop. Whereas a lot of food that's not the tastiest food in the world like Scott, how much non-butter regular, unflavered popcorn can you eat? Just how long the movie is you can do. Two hours. You screwed up my analogy. It was supposed to be an edible, but you're like, no, I just keep eating. On buttered on buttered on flavor popcorn. Just regular microwave. Oh, yeah, I don't care what that's all right. You eat it in, you're like, something's missing. I don't want the sitting words. It's also getting into my teeth. And then like, well, it's to the side of your cheek. You ever have that. There's no way to scientists. Like, I'm going to be impressed with like the manoelectic when it can get popcorn out of my mouth until then, whatever, a eyes of a fraud. So if something's really tasty, you tend to be high probability of over eating it. And so if you have protein bars that are unbelievable, you've got to be really careful. There is a protein bar brand, which I love called anobar. Yes, it sounds a lot like anobar, which is an anobalixteria. It does not have that in there. But is it delicious? I mean, it's really good. We've reviewed it on the channel. Scott, can we put our protein bar review over here somewhere? Absolutely. And that is an amazing bar with actually very good macros. And it's super healthy if you eat like one or two. But like sometimes you feel like eating four, five or six. And if it's a, you know, a day where you're going to blow out your calories, that's a great way to do it. But you've got to be careful, just alert because the bar is so good. You could be like, man, I'm just going to like, yellow the diet. That would be a bad idea. So bars, in which you know the palinability and adjust for a really good. If you're in a part of your diet where you're like, I need only not so tasty bars. There are plenty of bars that are just like, you know, they're protein bars and they work. But you know, anobars and stuff like that, you want to make sure that when you're eating them, you have all the calorie room and your appetite is really well controlled. Some of this, this problem is further complicated because some of the tastiest bars, not to by accident, have the most calories. And that brings us to fact number three, total calories per bar is a big deal. This one's huge. A lot of folks, and I do this treat protein bars like a unit of measurement. I, two protein bars. Scott, back when I was a personal trainer, you know, you keep, you know, people's diet and takes and stuff and then later diet coach. And they're like, they tell you like, what the, in the typical day, they're like two protein bars. And I'm like, which ones? They're like, I don't know, whatever I pick up with the store. Like, let me tell you guys how much that matters. If you get the David bar or the built bar, each one of those is like 150 calories. Sometimes less. All right, you eat two of those as trainer calories. This is the drop in the bucket. That's one tenth of a 3000 calorie diet. A metrics big one hundred bar is 400 calories on average. Scott, my math isn't that great. That's like more than three times the calories, right? Can you imagine when three times something is like, you're just using it as the same thing? Oh, man, Scott, I had a really nasty thing to say, guys, the following is such a joke. And it's so meant in good faith and with love. But someone's like, hey, man, how much does your girlfriend weigh? And you're like about 130 pounds, but she's actually 400 pounds. And they're like, dude, you liar. You're like protein bars are the same distribution. But damn, she's 400 looking like, wow, wow, wow, like all that. Yeah, hell yeah, girl. Hey, if you weigh 130, I'm good. Rubin' us 400. Who been asked? If you weigh 130 or less, get your attention somewhere else. Go out, feelin' that vibe. You look great, but it's not for me. If you weigh 400 plus, my DM, they're always up. Real talk, though, huge difference is huge difference. And there's no wrong answers here. High calorie protein bars are amazing. But just don't eat two ultra high calorie bars and think that you're not going to gain some weight if you get to a calorie access on many days. Because legit, a lot of people think that because food is healthy and protein bars are healthy, if they're making that assumption, that they can eat as much of it as they want. A lot of people eat protein bars, I just have, like, whatever, how many protein bars makes me full. And I'm like, mm, that could be the right answer, but it could be a very, very not right answer. And the idea that food just because it's healthy won't make you gain weight is total BS. Big problem. Factor number four. We only have five factors total. Factor number four. Are you eating these bars? Are rather how? How are you consuming these bars? Let me explain what I mean. Are you eating these bars in a context of a daily color expend? Like are you logging them into the RP diet coach app or your favorite other diet app? Or are you yoloing them and just eating like, however many feel like? And damn, they taste so good. And proteins good for you, right? So you keep eating them. And it's a thousand access calories for the day. And it's at every other day. And you're gaining weight. Your friends drop a hint about it. You eat your friends. Then you don't have any friends. Also think about it. You've cannibalized real people. Scott, have you ever thought would it be like to consume someone whole and then realize that not only can you feel their spirit energy inside you and all of their hopes and dreams have died in you. But they're also a person you loved and cared for like a friend. I don't think it's cannibalism worth. You can get all that out of there. Oh, I didn't see Scott reacting like that. Okay, that sounds hot. That's kind of an honor. Scott, yo real talk man. This channel's getting banned for Did you know that's like a thing like people can like some people want to be consumed like eaten like it's like yeah, I've heard a couple like core cases. God imagine that first date you get like a good conversation gets really heavy. You know, okay, okay, okay, what's your what's your craziest king? She's like, you go first. She's like, um, I always wanted to like, oh God, this is gonna sound crazy like I'm typically into blondes, but like a pronoun would be crazy. She's like, right, wow. Okay, what's yours? I've always like if I could just be like couldn't a pieces and consumed by someone you're like Check please The waiter brings your food. You're like I won't be needing this. I have something to eat later. The waiter's like, Oh, you too. You're like, no, literally I'm gonna eat her. Anyway, Jesus, I spent a long time on that. Factor number five, factor five, Scott doesn't sound like a scam diet, factor five. Now from our P, the scamming company. Food composition. So what's actually in the bar? This one believe it or not doesn't count for a ton because food composition and a context of good daily physical activity, good dose of resistance is training and good enough macros which protein bars hook you up with and um a calorie awareness that doesn't take you into super fat land with a surplus, food composition would actually your food is made of is a minor variable, but still when we have to mention because it does make a different bars that are higher in quality, high quality protein sources like Wayne, Cacin and Egg, a little bit of collagen is totally cool because sometimes collagen can fill out the amino acids at some of the other protein sources, miss. And if you have both collagen plus some added specific amino acids to fill out the deficits that collagen has, you can actually get a high quality protein out of that. No problem. So the particulars actually do matter here. And this comes down to like, are you dealing with a good faith company or not? Like, uh, genius shot, one of our modern formulations has mostly BLG protein and some collagen, but also specific amino acids added to that blend to make sure the collagen is filled out. So it's all high quality protein. The David bar has a very similar, but maybe not similar blend of technical sense, but also does that with collagen and amino acids filling and it is high quality protein, 100%. At least as far as I know, I don't have any direct socios you should David bar, but they seem like good people to me. David seems like a wholesome name. Doesn't it, Scott? Like, here meet my friend David. He's a cannibal, which is wholesome. I think we've covered that already, in the literal sense eating people whole. So, um, however, some companies will take the shortcut route and will like just put in crap. This unfortunately happens with some vegan protein bars, like Scott was saying earlier, like it's six grams of protein and it's all peanuts. So it's actually just like almost no complete protein whatsoever. That would be not ideal. Another one is practical food composition things. It doesn't even wrong with these things. They just have some kind of effects on the gut that some people can't tolerate. Filors like gut busting sugar, alcohols, excessive amounts of fiber can make you pupilot and bubble guts and lots of farting. Makes the cannibal date weird. She's like, Scott, you're like, what's your fetus? She's like, I'm not being on a date with someone who's been farting this entire time. You're like, right, yeah, probably not your guy. Um, that's a thing. And remember, that's not unhealthy for you. And if you protein bars a lot, you're a gut bacteria change and you can just move through that. I can have four quest bars in one sitting and I don't fart anymore than I normally do and I don't poop any different later on. Do not try that at home. If you want to cost them to it. I, that'll legit. I could have put you in the hospital. But if you are on the hospital, don't let them sit you in the waiting room. Because that waiting room just went to biohazard in like 30 minutes. To the, at the end of the deal, at the super gut got at the end of the day. Food composition is a concern, but a minor total calories of the bars that you take in are the biggest deal of all of this. So with high protein, lower fat, lower calorie, especially that's why I mentioned fat and only for that reason. Filling bars, or tasty high calorie bars on occasion within the context of a coloric total, eat up because they can be super healthy part of a balanced diet for sure. And if you have some days of mostly protein bars and shakes and not much else, that's cool too. You know, if you never get too far from a toilet. And I'll let you guys fill the blanks on that one. Anyway, I've been Dr. Mike and I'll see you next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pre-Dization, and I want to ask your question. Our Psalms are the real deal. Do they work? What do they do? Scott the video guy is laughing right now. Because this is a video we just kind of had to put out. Because lots of you find folks in the comments are asking Dr. Mike what about Psalms. Well, here you go. Not that long of a video that there's not a lot to say. Psalms, you'll hear about them in the comment section of every YouTube video. Some things unlike how to grow plants. There's always one bro in there that responding to no one will be like, I don't think take steroids man, I do Psalms. What about Psalms? What do you think about Psalms? Createine and Psalms? Hey, what about Psalms from my girl, bro? Well, bro, here's what about Psalms. Selective, engine receptor modulators are drugs intended to generate anabolic effect muscle growth effect similar to that of anabolic steroids. That with very, very truncated, very minimal side effects. Sounds pretty cool. Here's the reality as of the year 2023, early 2020, maybe because I'm cool, she'll come down the pipe. First, many unfortunately actually have comparable defects to anabolic steroids. Sorry side effects, comparable side effects to anabolic steroids, which kind of blows. We thought they were going to be side effect free, they were not. Secondly, some are pretty legit and like they have liver toxicity effects and all that stuff so they're not risk free. A lot of people will take Psalms thinking like, fuck it, I'm just on Psalms. Whatever, it doesn't matter. And sometimes it doesn't work out that way. Huge swaths per actual peer-reviewed literature of Psalms on the market are still fake fake fucking Psalms, which come in one of two varieties generally. One, nothing. No active ingredients. Two, oral steroids. Usually, diannable, debal, windstrawl, almost never our Psalms actually var because of ours more expensive and if they're going to fuck you in the ass, they might as well do it for cheap. There are a lot of people like him on Psalms, when he pulls her swollen up, sex drives like crazy, I gain 10 pounds of bloat, my lifts have all gone up by 50. I love Psalms and every liftor is ever used gears like, yes, yes, Psalms, that's what you're on. Now lastly, some are absolutely effective and relatively safe, but which ones in which brand version is still up in the air. There's not a consensus yet that I'm aware of about which brands and which Psalms really are like the go-to low side effect, high yield, reasonably dependable that you're getting what you're getting in the fucking can type of shit. Now, if you guys know of any brands or any drug names or anything like that that you've heard or can cite a reference to that's like this is well-vented, this is the real deal, et cetera, et cetera, by all means share them in the comments. And then the rest of you who are skeptical, look that shit up and see if it's, if it's that it out. Because something you can do again, then fucking deal to labs, put some of the great song brought out to use. You go to a build-o labs, just want insane guy in a fucking dumpster that makes his own gear and you're like, yes, science. So do as you wish, but in 2023, at least you're actually 23, 23, Psalms are not yet the golden fleece of antibiotics. Maybe they will be soon, maybe other drugs will come in and be even better. I can't wait for animal drugs, the grown muscle that don't have a fraction of the side effects of steroids because steroids side effects are awful. I think it would be a great thing. I just don't think Psalms are dependably in any grand sense there yet. So that's what I think about Psalms. Feel free to ask any follow-up questions like I'll get in the comments and I'll answer a few. And if you need feet picks, just DM me, brah. Wait, hold on, I don't go to YouTube DMs. Do you have DMs? Oh, Scott, the video guy. You can message an account, yes. Come to AdOS, bro. In any case, if you want more nerd stuff, we have a member section for extra videos every month. If you want to ask more depth questions, team full-romb forum is where it's at. Pretty close to guaranteed answers there from tons and tons of people including myself. And if you like, subscribe, watch, swipe, left, up, down, right, or whatever, you will either accidentally win a video game on your phone or good things will happen to our YouTube. Anyway, see you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Anasanspiritization and I have a question, are seed oils bad for you? You might think so, but you might be wrong. Uh oh. So, you hear this claim very often that seed oils specifically, things like canola oil, corn oil, sunflower oil, etc. are specifically bad for your health, maybe even a very bad for your health. And a lot of the folks that promulgate this idea do it with a genuine belief that it is true, so no hate against them at all. A lot of them come from a keto community, the carnival community, a lot of them are politically conservative, you know, leftists have their own brand of, I have to be vegan and everything and keywees and avocados every hour kind of diet fads. No offense leftists you're great in many other ways. Uh so, you know, like your conservative, you got a tribal pat, you hate big farm, I think COVID is a hoax, but you also shoot bathtub trend, the powder from which came from China, literal enemy and geopolitics. But I haven't put those two and two together, you're sure a ship, but the trend into your thine, cough debunch, you know that the trend is just, you know it's bad for you, but it just gets you lean and jacked and kills you slowly and makes you go insane, whatever, but your health conscious. So, you know, seed oils are definitely bad, and even though you technically actually shoot seed oils into your body from a fucking, uh the literal oil that suspends your trend as seed oil. Uh, you know, seed oils are bad for you when you eat them. So you don't eat them because you're a conscious person. Now here's the thing, there's part truth to this. And it's the idea that repeatedly heated oils like French fry oil that's heated and cooled, heated and cooled, heated and cooled, undergoes some chemical alterations that probably are not great for your health and that's probably true. And like the way you do reheat oils is like, good junk food that's deep fried, so fucking stop doing that all the time. Yes, junk food is not very healthy for you. If you eat a ton of it, if you eat a little bit every now and again, it's totally fine. But yeah, you don't want to live your life on junk food. But what about just seed oils that haven't been repeatedly reheated? Are they bad for you? Well, uncharacteristic, because usually this is just a sort of narrative channel. We don't do deep dive literature reviews. We save that for other folks like the MASS mass review. James Krieger's weightology review, which I haven't heard you to read, stronger by science folks, Greg Nockles. They have a great review. They put out that those deep dives and literally it gets you really into the literature. But for this, I have to get in the literature because otherwise, if I just say, look, I looked at the literature, people just won't believe me, which is totally cool. So if I can hear you go right there, you see the Pummet links, you just type in the PMIDs and you'll get right into the research itself and you can look at off-sheet articles and related reviews and after about 20 minutes, you're like, okay, fine. Looks like seed oils are not bad and here's the thing. So a little egg and a racononic acid, which are hugely founded, very high concentrations in many seed oils, they actually correlate ex-hexbosure to them correlates with less cardiovascular disease risk than lower exposure. So it's kind of weird, like, supposed to be bad for you, but they're actually the more of me eat the better on average, strange. Okay, that's at least relieving to hear. Diabetes and all-cosmortality research over the long-term shows that little egg acid is actually helpful. And a racononic acid seems to be neutral, that just does not hurt your diabetic or a long-term, all-cosmortality outcomes and there's quite a few reviews and studies that say really the same thing and those are all posted right there. And a lot of times, yes, it is good to consume more omega-3s. So definitely add them in omega-3 heavy oils, which are commonly not seed oils, but don't just take all seed oils or omega-6 heavy oils out because there needs to be a balance and they're totally fine for your health in that balance. So the idea that seed oils are bad for you, again, I would run 100% beyond that if it was true. But if you look at the literature, it's just not true. I don't have big oil, doesn't pay me money. I wish they did. Hey, listen, big oil, if you're out there, your boy is starving to death. You mean that green and I'll lie for you every day of the week. Unfortunately, I've said this many times, no one's ever called, no one ever writes, no emails. So I just have to say true shit, which is you analyze literature and it looks like seed oils, just not to be scared of and they're not really bad for you. You could probably just say junk foods bad for you, leave it at that, but that's so boring and it's so non-sciency and I guess it just doesn't get the clicks anymore. So yep, seed oils are totally fine for you in most contexts and they're not especially deleterious for your health. And see you guys in the comments specifically, conservative males in their mid 40s that work on cars when they're not at their day job and get really angry at me and have tribal tattoos. But just how it be sometimes. Alright, well shit, thanks Arnold. Anyway, see you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pyridization must eat foods. Would you have to have in order to have a healthy diet? They're not, that's BS. Why? So you'll hear folks say, right regularly, that these are must eat foods. And if you ever go to the grocery store, and if you ever so much as look at the magazines in the aisle, the little various previews of what's inside the covers, almost always have like three foods. Your body craves when you're dieting. Five foods you have to eat for good health. And it's like, it's shock value. It's like, oh, am I missing something? But is it true? We have foods that make the rounds of these are the healthy foods you have to have of a codos. There's been like five different resurgence of like, aren't a codos like, so healthy? Are you not a codo-towse like hourly? Totally, that's a thing. Kiwis, Kiwis, the healthiest food in the world. Let's got all these nutrients. How can you spare yourself these nutrients? Uh, carnivore folks will say beef. You gotta eat beef. They'll eat like a 95% beef diet. Okay, is it really true that we have to have beef? All right, some health authority will say, yes, that's the case. And then we'll say yes Kiwis and yes avocados, but it's not actually true. And it's so not true that there are entire food groups that we encourage you to eat as people who actually know nutrition. And because they're great in nutrition, some convenient and healthy, and increase the variance of your diet, but even these major food groups, you don't have to eat, and you can be healthy completely without them. For example, grains. You can eat a totally grain free diet and be healthy as a clam. And our clams healthy, they're certainly happy because they're smiling. You don't have to eat grains straight up. You don't have to eat fruits. You can eat veggies, grains, meats, or lean proteins, and then just never eat fruit and be the healthiest you've ever been in your entire life. And you don't even have to eat meat. When you look at the kinds of folks that vegans used to be in the 90s and early 2000s before the vegan junk food industry was born, they were some of the healthiest people on the planet. They ate no meat ever. If you take the right vitamin supplements and things like that alongside, you never have to eat meat. You'll be all throughout the rest of your life. So these are huge groups. You don't have to eat or you really think that within one of these groups or another of these major food groups, if we say it's true that you don't have to eat any fruits at all and still be completely healthy, if you'd like, is it could possibly even theoretically be true that you have to have Kiwis, which are one type of fruit. Who knows how many other fruits you also have to have? Was the probability that you only have to have Kiwis? I mean, Jesus Christ, there's like, I don't know, hundreds of thousands of, or at least hundreds and probably thousands of different fruits that humans eat, is it really like one of them? You have to eat? Well, we know already, the entire category is on hefty. So it's probably like all of those are 50 that you have to eat and a category which you don't have to eat any of them. How does that make any sense? The nutrients you actually need can come from a huge variety of different foods. And if they don't come from one side of that variety, they can come from the other. Because your body is profoundly good extracting the nutrients it needs from the foods that are available. That doesn't mean you go on a starvation elimination diet of three things, but if it's like 20 things, your body's pretty damn good at getting it out. Your body is designed by evolution. You are a survivor. You are a descendant of folks that have faced intermittent starvation for six million years, so if you're a human evolution. So if there's nutrients in it, your body will find it. It digests almost everything inside a food. It will grab every nutrient it needs. And lots of foods have so many bases of nutrients covered. You don't need to eat 50 different kinds of foods. You go like this, in nutrient I get from keyweeds. And I've got to have beef to get this. There's tons of nutrients to go around. You really only need a certain amount minimum of proteins, carbs and fats. And if you consume most of those through healthy sources, like if you have some whole grains, some veggies, some fruits, any one of those three, you're pretty good to go. And if you have some kind of lean proteins, and maybe take a multivitamin everyday, your bases are covered. You get enough complete proteins, refruits enough essential fats from your fats. And kind of everything on top of that is BS. So don't worry about foods. You have to eat next time you're walking down the grocery store aisle, and you get to the cash register if there's an agzene that says, hey, look, you've got to eat, Twinkies, that'd be kind of sweet. Like hey, let's buy one now, you said enough. Apples of must-eat foods, you know, star fruit, a lot of times it's like exotic fruit. Foods they get you with it like dragon fruit. The new health elixir, no, no. It's just some shit you guys have never heard of, so it looks exotic. And people in the Philippines, it grows into yard and they eat it, so they're like, that's fine. And it does taste good. Anyway, go eat something that tastes good, don't worry about that it's saving your life. Just eat well and you'll be totally fine. Everything else is bullshit. They get out of here, go eat dragon fruit. Now, take a fight to the Philippines. Now, yeah, yeah. See ya.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. Welcome back to another video edition of BS, which you know, it stands for, and it's not by carbonant synthesis. And it's something more related to what comes out of cows, buts. When they're happy and eating grass. Today's BS is, we can's off during fat-loth dieting. What exactly does that mean? So here's what this looks like. Tons of people aren't fat-loth diets even right now. And they're grinding their butts off. The entire workweek, making the awesome fat-loth's progress, hitting the gym, and their diet is sharp, sharp, sharp. So they're making sure not to overeat, and they're doing great, generating a good calorie deficit. Maybe something reasonable, like 500 calories a day, and even something higher, like six or 700 calories a day in a deficit, just burning that fat, amazing. Then a problem occurs. Frighting night occurs, and they get drunk. That's right. Have all these nasty thoughts in your head, and they won't go away. And let's just swing a couple of pints or glasses or shots or more back. After your drunk, well, during you being drunk, you eat pub food, which is delicious only when you're drunk, but you're drunk when you're at the pub. Then you get street food afterwards. You wake up the next morning and have a bunch of snacks. Then of course your girlfriend's ringing when it's time for brunch. And then you have a good old solid heaping of her regret, because you just ate a crap ton of calories, wait over what you were supposed to in order to continue to stay on the fat-loth plan. But why the regret? No, didn't you just like only mess up two days of the week? The week seven days long, you were great. Most of the time, you were on plan. You know, five to two sounds like the five is the winning team there. What happens? Well, here's the thing. Big problem is that many folks can put away, like 1500 extra calories, frighting, and Saturday respectively, no problem on top of their normal diets. That's a ton of calories. That's a big problem. And you would think, well, how do they eat that many calories? Folks, remember, a whole pizza, like a large normal pizza, is something like 4,000 calories. I know some people that can eat a lot more than that, when they're drunk and it's friday night, and they just put the food down. That absolutely is a thing that happens. And then so friday they go crazy. And remember, they're very hungry from the week of dieting, so that rebound hunger effect is really gnarly. And when you start to eat the kind of junk foods that are delicious, that you've been saving yourself from eating during the week, you start to really be able to pour them in, and holy crap, that's a lot of food. Sunday, you go ease in back to normal, which means you still hit something like a 500 calorie surplus on that Sunday, which is not a deficit day, unless you don't accomplish any fat loss on it, and still gain a little bit of fat. What's wrong with that? Well, if you consume an extra 3500 calories above your weekly 500 calorie a day deficit, that one pound week fat loss that you would have gotten, if you stuck to your diet is completely, and I mean completely erased during the week, or very well on track to lose like a pound of fat, and then during the weekend is just not that hard to eat back so many calories that your total fat loss over the week averages out to precisely zero. Your back to square one, which is total BS, and one of the reasons that it's BS, and that makes this thing very tragic, is that even if you're losing fat still, but it's incredibly slowly. Sometimes you can gain fat with the approach, but more often it results in roughly maintenance, why most often your body regulates its hunger signals very well, to try to keep you at maintenance. So if you diet to below maintenance Monday through Friday, Friday night your body's like, bro, let's eat up, man, you're starving, and it automatically signals your hunger in such a way, that gets you very close to actually eating at a maintenance diet. Why is this particularly tragic? You're just a maintenance still big deal, nobody lost nobody found. In a sense, yes, but something was lost. You lost four and a half perfectly good days Monday through Friday of eating like a normal person well balanced. You were low on energy, you were hungry, you know, Becky from accounting the fucking bitch that skinny is fucking eats whatever she wants. You watched her dig into eclair after eclair, paying no price for it at all, while you're staring at chicken and broccoli going like, this, what a fucking God. The things I would do if she wasn't a fucking accounting sabond, I petitioned her fire. So I didn't have to watch her eating eclair as a paying no price. You were suffering that whole time, dieting is hard work, it's tough. Low on energy, mental and physical, getting crazy cravings, your kids are yapping in the back seat. You haven't had a carbon three and a half days. It's a tough life. And then what do you do? You take all of that misery and suffering and even if it's not misery and suffering, hard fucking work of dieting for most of the week. And you just erase the living shit out of it with a grand old regrettable asked time on the weekends. If you're gonna maintain, you can still have some BS on the weekends. You just gotta be fairly active and eat mostly healthy foods, not in a way that stars you during the week. And it's mission accomplished. If you're gonna suffer during the week, it might as well be for a purpose other than to get back on the scale on Monday and go fuck. I didn't lose anything for the third week's trade. Shit, out of good time on the weekends, you could have a good time on the weekend on maintenance. And if that loss phase, you'd want that work to be for something. How do you accomplish that? Well, you pick up dust off your eye of fucking adult hat and you put it on your head and you know what? The next eight to 12 weeks of my life is for the purpose of fat loss. And like Renaissance Prudetization, expert coach Melissa Davis always says, a doctor Melissa Davis, dieting in the fat loss mode is not meant to be sustainable. Check it out, lose fat forever. You would fucking die if you tried to do that. You just have to lose fat for eight to 12 weeks and then you transition into maintenance. And in perpetuity, if you like, you can have a balanced life. You don't have to restrain yourself like a psychotic person. Or you can do that for three or four months after. And then for another two to three months, Jeff in and lose some more. The process of fat loss dieting is temporary. If you're in your boss's office and he's narrating some grand scheme and you're taking notes on your laptop, you probably aren't picking up your phone and video chatting with your friends while you're doing it. Why? Because right now, your job is to say in the office and type what your boss thinks and organize it while for him and then send an email to all the other departments. Because you were an adult, you realize that now is the time for work and later I'm gonna video chat with Sally and we're gonna have a ball talking about that new real housewives of Detroit episode. I don't even know if that's a real thing. It should be my wife would gladly volunteer for it. In any case, you know that there's a time to put in the work and a time to enjoy and relax. And if putting in the work has to occur sequentially over eight to 12 weeks for it to be effective, if this is some shit you're gonna have to do. And if you say, well, I was really good this week. Again, morally conflating something that's just a technical element of dieting. I deserve a break on Friday and Saturday. I agree with you. And what you also deserve is not to lose any fat. That's just the way the world works. So here is something I implore you to do. If you're on a fat loss phase, do not take weekends off. It's Monday through Friday on Saturday Sunday here on. You're always on. But it's just for eight to 12 weeks. Once you're done with that, you transition to maintenance and you live an awesome balanced lifestyle that has an incredible two benefits. One, you're now leaner. Mission accomplished in two when you go and have junk foods on the weekends and you're maintenance phase, it doesn't lead to a nasty rebound and a total weight gain. Thoughts you have no regrets because regrets are bullshit. It don't have them. I'm handled. I've never had to regret in my life. I've been several Olympias. And yeah, yeah, my, what is that sound that he says? Nah, what does that mean? I wonder, if Arnold, if you could comment on this video, we would appreciate it. Folks, that's all of the not funny jokes I have for today. Hopefully we learned something. Maybe you didn't come back next time. Maybe we'll teach you some stuff. And I'll see you then.

There's always another one coming here because you're dare fucking relax keep going We're all camping mean something right? You're supposed to be tough Oh, damn, so many years down mass Oh Damn, so many years We haven't even come to ultra flex fitness Oh, now We're going to train with Marisa In the Marisa Indar Marisa? No, no, no, no Vamos JK, what up family? You know, I can't speak Spanish to say my life I've wanted to manage I can make the sounds go okay Because I'm so rude So if you don't know what that means, you want to speak Spanish either baby Jerry speak Los Paners say something Mama, that's all we need to hear Marisa Indar done one Everything in power lifting straight up ran at a shift to win She is and sized but elephant strong We're in the other way around In any case, we'll find out soon He is going to be changing her back Believe it or not Her entire athletic history Minus like three years when she was 17 years old Isn't power lifting So I know she looks like a busy athlete But she's just getting back into the mix What a better way to get back into the mix Then get right into the fucking blender We're in the same RP backwork out, Jared Marisa, she's going to be okay after this, yes? Yeah, we'll see Yeah, yeah You already have a paper We do have a paper And the paper is Hmm Come a daddy But pronounced in a way that I can't say on YouTube Because they would flag us from porn Let's get into the work out Why are we over here doing lat pull downs? When apparently the first exercise is going to be pull ups The reason is that just like you don't just get into your working weight The bent presses right away on a first set You got to warm up The same thing applies to pull ups And we use the pull down to warm up for the pull-ups So typically we do something like a set of 12 Very light with like a 30 rep max Then we go do a set of eight with something a little bit heavier like a 20 or 15 rep max And then we do a set of three or four Something pretty damn heavy and or that set of three or four gets replaced And a set of two to three pull-ups is done with the actual pull-up And then boom we are ready for pull-ups now If you could do quite a few pull-ups are really awesome thing that you can try Is putting on a little bit of weight Doing a set of two with like 25 or 10 pounds hanging And then after you're done with that starting your working weight And if it's just your body weight it's going to feel a lot lighter Because of the potential and nervous system wakes the whole up for that heavy weight Light weight or reps are easier Just doing those different teagas better Your mind muscle connection is better And there's a gentleman that clearly wants something from this rack And I'm taking them straight and he's going to get them like out of here He will mind not know this But Marissa was on Ellen the generous doing pull-up dancing And pretty impressive So I'm compliment from Jared Strange Hard to come by There you go You can touch your chest To the bar It's no longer a rep if you can't touch your chest Or a strict technique So when you can't just slowly lower as if you're going to do another The bar is at the bottom and then just back up That's good And each bar is at the bottom It's a for real-pass Okay, okay, we're at some no rush Start starting that deemestir Starts with the right there Every rep me here right there Down slow And we're long on it Pull pull pull pull Two, beautiful Not quite that slow, a little foul There you go Three, slow, good All around There Good Yes And that's it Slow, slow, slow, slow And rack, good stop Excellent Excellent That's better Crazy impressive, that was beautiful We are going to do technically two exercises for a vertical pull with Marissa But it's really just one exercise The first multiple sets, three, two, five sets Are going to be loaded The second, three, the four sets are going to be unloaded Marissa is full, fucking strong But she can do decent reps with a crap load of weight hanging Which for anyone is good For a female is ridiculous And we're going to take advantage of that strength and do weighted pull-ups Why do we just do regular pull-ups after? Intentional notice that weight pretentious in nervous system so much That regular pull-ups function essentially as assisted pull-ups after They allow you to really get in touch with a crazy my muscle connection The technique feels super stable and smooth After weighted pull-ups You would be this not to try some unloaded pull-ups Because the feel is just going to be that good Up, go, go damn you Chin up No, good slow We'll get you back for that one Fuck that one No worries That was my daddy Oh yes, okay, safe work Yes I should did it All right, unclip if you can Let's take a take a minute Boom Boom Roll stretch up Excellent Two Very successful stretch There you go Three Four Four These are the back muscles There you go Five All these are perfect Good stuff That's it, relax Good stuff They were very good They were very good I feel like my forearm is to go But for anything Yeah, you're feeling your back somewhat here, yes Yeah, I definitely felt my back I just feel like my forearm is good But with the straps that no big deal, it's hurt a lot Yeah, yeah You guys might notice that Those of you watching The straps can take away the limiting factor But they don't take away the pain And the ones who there are some kind of song Like I can be your hero baby I'm a that shit I can take away your bans You're saying it approximately like that What was it? Eglessia Yeah, every game Yeah, every game Boom Oh, that's perfect Yes Slow stretch That's it, that's the last one Slow Slow And wrap Beautiful Very good Look at that yourself, it's a You know what's going to be yourself? No Why not? I don't know It's a distracting It's a crazy round I'm distracted So it's wrong with yourself You're doing prolapse, you're like, oh, the look at you meat I'm in my isa You can only see your face, your own face, it's frightening I mean look, if you look like me, it's really frightening If you look like Jared, I don't know, people have their tastes One last set here Marissa, one last set Marissa, that was an amazing wrap to it again Oh my god, perfect All day, two more Up, up, slow, is it for another? Is it for another? Is it for another? Is it for another? Amazing, amazing, amazing, amazing Wow That's really earning that shit It is Good stuff I'm not like you guys This is what it feels like to be like, oh, oh, oh, oh, go back up Go back up But if it likes me, help This is what it feels like It's okay Look down, people Apparently Marissa can do Some unbelievable, slow-y centric pull-ups You may find these to be the hardest thing in the world But now that she's done and drinking her gatorade Which we are in fact sponsored by, I'm kidding Gatorade doesn't know he uses We're going to go take a rolling variation And Jared is going to coach Marissa up She's going to do rows, but she is a refined lady And that one of the, you film on the blade Get rhymes with rows Three sets of weighted pull-ups Three sets of unweighted pull-ups Now it's time for rolling We're going to hit two row variations They uncarracteristic of us, but new gym, new knee I don't know We're going to do some low rows first I'll try to do some higher row variations Hit the back from all sorts of different angles So that when you see your crush in the mall with her skinny boyfriend You can turn and hit that fucking angle with the back And the boyfriends like, damn it's tasty You're YouTube, our people Our future boyfriend is here I hate him, I'm an addict He's going to fuck off, you're going to get in there Stasis is going to be like, you say you need And then you're going to wake up and go to the gym So you can do that shit in real life, let's do it Amazing, come on, keep going, Marissa All day here Yes, slow, big stretch It's just in the top That was it Oh, I thought you said more You did great That's probably actually pushing I was only getting thrown Slow and deep So you guys might have noticed that Marissa is taking her elbows and pulling them behind her back You may have also seen people say that the lats are no longer active And that range of motion And that's largely correct The thing they don't follow up with is The lats in the back are not synonymous There was an enormous part of your back Dear I say most of your back that is not lats And the obsession with latrani is cool and all But if you want an overall big ass back You've got to do some movements that take your elbows and pull them away behind Cause all kinds of crazy shit And your mid upper back Actually allows for that to happen And then that gives you that turtle shell look So that people see you in the bar They're like, hey man, are you in your turtle? And you're like, yeah, so what if I am Other fucker and they're like, oh, geez, okay, sorry And then just fuck off That's it, you learned something today It is okay to lose your composure Let's do it Yes, pull further back Go, pull further Go, go, and slow as if another If you're gonna do another And back Oh, wow, it's good Tell me, felt something back there I did Awesome That's why I saw it Thank you My shoulders got pommeture All the way back Yes Two more bullshit Hardpool Hardpool, by two more All the way back, there it is Oh yeah At least one more moron moron Hardpool, pull back There it is Again, another one You got to push it all day Let's go Nobody said rest Good One more You got it, slow Yes, slow Slow Big stretch Rack There's something he wrote What is that feeling What? I saw that shit That fake mic shit I know how to fake like pull And you're like, oh, it's getting hard Ever girl knows that fake it Oh, that's fake The flexion row involves the muscles of your upper and lower back It actually Tacks us the entire back same time Generally, get whatever kind of attachment you want It's not really important And if you're a big fat fuck like me You probably want to put something heavy Or something solid that touches the cable attachment So you don't get dragged forward But the merces of tiny, tiny person She might actually be able to do it without him What you're going to do Is around your entire back You're a whole thing And the more weight you have the more you're around And then you're going to come up And when you're lower back hits A 90-degree angle completely vertical You're going to stop leaning back And the rest of the movement is generated by spinal extension And retraction of your elbows Big slow, forward lean Just huge stretch, even hold for a second Arch, tummy out, chest up, touch for a split second And go again And you can do this where you touch an old for a second Which merces probably going to do today Or you can do this When you big stretch And then just gently touch and come right back down Dealer's choice Good One last one They pull Forward down Slow is it for another And rack Good stop All right, two more place You sandbagging mother-cracker I think it's better to found bagging instead of Get away right Instead of overshooting Yes Try another one You got this Hold on Hold on Yes More Hard Oh yeah, one more Let's go meresa One more Keep it up Keep it up There's always another one coming in Don't you dare fucking relax keep going You got this all day World champion means something right? You're supposed to be tough There we go, another one Yeah You got this You got this Fuck yeah, oh that's it That's it, good slow and rack good stop Yes, it's getting hard All right, one hard set out of the can You're good, you're good, you're good Kids can't have you guys talking shit That's why we talked that shit That's good, that's good This is actually a very good exercise For assistance work for power lifters Especially the pull conventional It's a way to Load the spinal erector's a ton Without loading the spine much Yeah, in the in the not so common cases that More spinal erector work is something you can even Cover from this can really harden your ass off And especially if you are shaking a break from conventional Dental thing for psychological reasons Sometimes just fuck tired of deadlifting This exercise can thicken up your back So when you come back to deadlift Oh shit, like my spinal erector's a bigger and strong Touch that tummy, use some power from the bottom Now down slow one last one coming up Slow slow slow all the way stretch slow slow slow slow and rack good stop I think I have my stomach on this left Close enough a secret between friends I Feel abused If you what I feel abused good and that's how we know it's successful We good to go can you stop fucking kidding me? I'm sorry I'm sorry I'm sorry You can't even fit through doors I can't even stand next to anywhere I haven't enough don't train your back Cause you're turning to some cocky fucking world champ like Marissa All of excuse me excuse me and get through here You're gonna need two seats on an airplane Can you turn around and hit one of your new bodybuilding post-miss learned Did I learn one? All right, y'all see me up I You're me I Bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam, bam It's all the same that's how it all ends Folks, Marissa's been great please follow her to you guys next Nobody knows what's gonna come out of that mouth Ever we just know what's going into my mouth not what's coming out Why did I look at gyros when you said that?

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Pyrridsation and welcome to video number five in our How to Make the Best Training Program for your Muscle Growth Needs video number five. What is too heavy or too light and how to manually change your load aka weight if you're not that sciencey? I'm going to be illustrating some stuff with the RPI Purge Fiat, which I use for all of my training now. If you're catching this video in mid earlier than mid May 2023, which is probably when it's going to come out, hit the link in the description and sign up for the list. The list will get you a discounted app price earlier than other people and it will also get you loads of free informational goodies info team and tweak it call it who want to combine words arbitrarily. If you were watching this video after May 2023, then you can just go to the same link in the description, top link and it will just be a by-link for the app and you can get the app if you want. This however is not a video just guiding you through the app that would be insanely boring and you could just get the app and guide yourself. This video is going to be talking about how to actually manage and change an executor good training program, but we'll use the app as an example because it's the best program builder of all time I'll say. Yes. All right. Guidelines on training load, load selection, weight selection, how to pick the good weights. And if you've picked a good weight, you think it's good, I don't know if it's a bad weight, you need to change. I think four guidelines here. First, this is a huge point. Anything between sets of five and it's a 30 is just not a wrong answer. Fundamentally, there are more correct and less correct answers, but they're all kind of right. You know, it's like if you're going on a first date with a girl, you take her to a KFC or you take her to McDonald's, this is no losers. Right? Wendy's Taco Bell, check, check. It's got the video guy we got pizza hot, we got what else. Take that bitch to Domino's, I should have expensive. It's fucking real mouth fucking less than dude. I just got a dog on those pizza. It's $2524. $24. What is this shit? Did it come with a blow job machine? How crazy is that? Bitch, $24. Hey, this is me, girl, you must be out your mind. That's how much they're waiting in costs. Shit. In any case, unless it's Domino's and prohibitively expensive, sets of five to 30, no wrong answers. It doesn't have to worry about it at all. Now, there are more particular nuances which we can get a more correct answer than already the general of the correct answer and here's a couple of weeks. So point number two, whatever leaves the muscles that you're targeting as the limiting factor is a better rep range and thus whatever weight gets you to that rep range for example. If you do squats at more than 15 reps per set, you will generally notice two things give out before your quads. Your lower back, it's really tired. You start to round over and you're like, my quads have more juice, but I can't stand up straight anymore or two, your lungs and you're like and it's not about your legs anymore, it's that your lungs are hearing out. So squats and other what are called anti-gravity stabilization exercises like rows for example above 15 reps or 20 reps. If you do barbell rows for 20 reps, your lower back just gets tired to get out of breath and your muscles of the pulling muscles of the back just aren't doing anything anymore. So make sure the muscle is still a limiting factor. The rep range has a lot to say about that. Next, pick loads and stick to loads that feel safer and kinder on your joints. For example, if you're doing one arm preacher curls or lateral raises with dumbbells and you're doing it sets of five to eight reps for as a first exercise. Oh man, that's just, look, I'm not into like the whole canese phobia shit. So like you rock on technically speaking, you probably won't get hurt. Especially as you get a lot of quick and clean and weirdness and just if everything's roughly similarly effective between five and 30 reps, you will find over time through experience that sets of 10, 15, 20 plus for isolation exercises just tend to feel better on your joints. Compound movements if you warm properly because they distribute loads and multiple joints and one joint can take the slack of another seem to be much better for heavier loads and for lower up ranges. But for isolation, it's kind of fucking weird to do a curl for set of six heavy and be like, yeah, that's it. Someone's like, how does that feel on your bicep? Really? My elbows hurt. I think the bicep is close by so maybe some of the pain can go to the bicep and draw it somehow. I don't know if that works like that. It does. Lastly, if you get to close to five or 30 reps and start to get below five or above 30, the RP hypertrophy app will warn you and it's no big deal if you know your shit. You can just be like, whatever, I don't care and I know I'm doing sets of five and four, but this works for my body or you're like, yeah, I'm doing sets of 35 walking lunges and it fucks me up and technically speaking, the difference between, and I hypertrophy between sets of 30 and sets of 32 or 35 is like nominal, but basically not existed. Yeah, sure sets of 15, 60 definitely is a distinct drop off because the weight's not heavy enough, but like, you know, you can do a set of 35 and a walking lunge if it's close to failure, you're fucking growing period. So you can always just say, no, no things. Or if it's too heavy, lower the load, if it's too light, raise the load and avoid the extremes. No worries either way, you're in charge. If your load is off of what the app thinks it should be and it's way outside the margins, like if you were going to lift a hundred pounds, but you're like, man, I need to do either 50 or 150, 100 is just not working. The app isn't going to be able to tell you, hey, you have to do XYZ number of reps because last week you had eight reps. For example, let's say you're using the 50 pound dumbbells for a chest dumbbell chest press. You hit sets of eight last week. This week, the app's like, you know, hey, 55 pounds and, you know, you should hit sets of eight. But for some reason, you find it like compelling for you to do 70 pounds. The app's not going to be like, yeah, that converts to a sets of three. It's so far away that the prediction algorithm is inaccurate and we don't want to spit out the app telling you things that are nonsense. So the app is going to say, okay, 70 pounds, great. That's the weight. So right here on the, the thing you say, okay, I want you know, barbell that rose. Let's say here as an example and lift doesn't matter, which you 70 pounds, it's going to have the RIR for you as opposed to like having a weight here and the reps already as a target. You could even have had the reps as the target, but then it switches from like saying, hey, you have to do eight. It'll look like this. It'll say, hey, actually, two RIR. That's the taps. That's the app, tacitly admitting that like, I don't know what reps you're going to get because everyone's so different. That far away from the weight they planned that it can't tell. That being as it is, I would recommend that if you want to use the app to its best abilities, stay real close to the weight. So for example, if the app says, do 135 pounds because last week you did 130, it's totally cool to do 130 again or even 125. It'll auto adjust the reps to be higher so that you get the same stimulus. Oh, slightly better stimulus, actually, the app, make sure you're progress. And if you want to do 145 or 150, that's totally cool. But if you did 135 and you want to go to like 180, the app's going to be like, man, I just don't really know what to do for that because it's way outside. So I would recommend for progression purposes for the app to keep you on track and for repeatability and a little bit on the safety side and just good progression, stick with the weights first of all that the app recommends because it has your best interest leafy relief program and also if you have a little bit of discretion which you should totally take if you think like, yeah, 145 is too light. I'm going to go to 150. It will auto adjust the reps if it's close to make sure you're still on track for progress. Damn, that's pretty dope. Folks, that's it for this time. Let's see what we're talking about next time. Next time we are going to talk about how to use the different training modalities and work them in through the hypertrophy app. We're talking about straight sets, down sets, drops sets, super sets, etc etc etc. We're going to go through every single one of those special modalities. Talk about what they are, why they are useful in training and how maybe even what exercises to do them with and maybe what exercises is not to how to do some rest time. We'll cover all that stuff and we'll show examples of how to track that program into the app so that the app becomes your best friend. You only have to talk to the app. You shun your friends and family. You stop showering your fingernails grow out and as long as you hit that subscribe button every year for the low low price of the yearly discount I'm at at you. See you next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here with Renaissance Prudization. I'd purchase a myth. Number three today doing the same rep pyramid during your warm upsets. A strange myth. What the hell does that even mean? Before I get going, we're going to talk about what the myth actually is. Talk about how it might make some good points. Definitely talk about how it makes some bad points and not some great points. And a little bit of real talk to get our sense of where we are in space about this whole thing. So the myth is that you should train like this. You pick a rep target. Let's say him sets a ten or sets a five to ten. And you pick just one actual rep number. Let's say ten. And you do it for all of the warm ups while linearly adding weight. And then you do that weight at least some of the sets for the top sets when you get warmed up. So here's what this looks like. For example, on the live press. Let's say you want to use 585 for at least one set of ten. And then maybe sets of less than ten after or even drop sets or whatever. 585 six plates on a side for the leg press. Those are your top sets. This is how in this style you would warm up for it. You would do 135 for ten, 225 for ten, 315 for ten, 415 for ten, 425 for ten, 495 for ten. And then finally your first work set of 585 for ten begins. After that, you do a few other sets. Let's say set of 876. You're done training and you go have sex and locker room. Hallelujah, brother. That's fun. It's fun to do in locker room. In any case, all that aside, you notice that it's ten, 10, 10, 10 the entire time. Should it be like that? Well, maybe there are some good reasons. And here they are. First of all, warming up is really awesome. And warming up nice and slow is much better than the opposite of rushing it. This is very nice and very slow. So at least it does that well. And also down sets sets that are not super maximally your best performance ever. Slowly off of your best can also be helpful. So we could say that that 495 for ten warm up that last warmup you did probably is hard enough to where it has some hyper-trophic value. It does actually drive a little bit of muscle. On the other hand, there's some bad things. So the problem number one is a time problem. Warmups are generally not stimulative of growth in advanced lifters. All of this time you spent warming up. If you could have condensed it to the appropriate amount of time, you'd have saved yourself a ton of time of non-growth promoting non-beneficial lifting. So number one problem is this is giant waste of time. Problem number two is this is a waste of energy. Energy you could have been driving a stimulus with. Now if you condensed a warmup to something more rational, which I'll show you in a bit, stop doing five sets of ten before your first set actually began, condensed it to maybe four sets of declining reps, you would save a lot of energy, which means that 585 for ten wouldn't be a ten. At the same reps and reserve, it might be 1314 or 15 reps. So energetic at the end of a proper warmup versus so much more tired at the end of one of these crazy long extended warmups, sets of ten and ten and ten. Till the cows come home, that you actually end up getting more out of your first and second and third working sets because you have a higher performance relative to your ability to perform. And you get very close to muscular failure. As opposed to systemic failure, we're just so fucking tired of doing sets of ten that you just can't do any more than ten or up to five 85, right? You essentially don't want to continue to warm up after you're already warm. You want to warm up and when you're warm, get into the sets that matter with as much energy as you have. But you're pissing away energy on sets that as we learned, do not stimulate much if any growth at all. And lastly, is a problem of cumulative fatigue. Some of them have a very poor stimulus to fatigue ratio. They don't fatigue you a ton normally, but they don't stimulate you hardly at all. However, in these extended warmups, I'll put it to you this way. Let's go back to the example. One third, if you can if 555 or 10 is something you can do, let's say two reps and reserve, that's how strong you are. At the end of all this, 135 or 10 doesn't fatigue you hardly at all. Doesn't stimulate you either. To 25 or 10, it's not going to fatigue you much. Oh, it's okay to do. Definitely doesn't stimulate in growth either. Three 15 for 10 definitely some fatigue, not much growth stimulus because it's like 20 reps and reserve. Four or five for 10 for sure fatigue. Again, not much stimulus. 495 for 10, maybe a little bit of stimulus, but a ton of fatigue. So those latter heavier sets still 10 and 10 and 10 and 10 and 10. Those can for a ton of fatigue and that's not that is independently a problem with energy. You won't have enough energy to train hard right after, but it's also cumulative fatigue problem. If you're always doing these ascending sets of the same number of reps more and more weight all the time, then you're just adding a ton of fatigue to every session of your program and thus cumulative layer fatigue will skyrocket much faster, maybe after three weeks of accumulation rather than four so that you could have had a one extra great week of training kind of every month that instead you're doing just bullshit warming up that is again, not stimulative as that one last fresh week absolutely would be. So real talk, you got to learn how to warm up properly, which means in a descending fashion. Here's how it would look in this example, if, well, no, not if, I modified it all the proper ways. Let me read off the screen here. I got up like and read off the screen. So here's an example of how to do this right. Same set up, same exercise, 585 for reps is our goal at the end of this on the leg press. 135 for 10, God. 315 for 8 because you don't fucking need to do 225, man, that's like the body weight squats a few way, 225, which if you're leg pressing 585 for reps, you probably do 135 for 10 to just get really easy into it. If you're 15 for 8, I promise if you can do 585 for 10 plus, 315 for 8 is not a fucking big deal, and you can go right to it. The rest of this were actually being really careful with. You only may be need 3 warmups before getting to 585 for sets of 10 plus, but we really took our time. This is the extra careful version so you can even do much less than this. 405 for 6, notice it's not 10 anymore. It's 10 then 8 then 6, 4.95 for 4 reps. What you're getting out of 495 is here's the thing you're already generally warm, physically your tissues are warm from all the other warmups. You don't need to do 10 reps to get the nervous system adapted to that amount of load, which only takes a few reps, those are called potentiation reps. You just need a few of them. 4 is more than enough, and because we're being extra fucking careful, just to really drive home a point, 585 for 2 reps, rack rest, and then go into the work sets. Just to really get adapted to that whole thing. Because this is let's see 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 warmupsets, the other was also 5 warmupsets. It doesn't have to be. We could have just done 3 and been totally fine. Fine to be extra safe for 5 to be super, super safe. Just so the comparison is good. Because the reps descend, you're getting all the warmup, all the potentials, all the readiness without hardly any of the fatigue, any of the time best away, and any of the energy loss that will end up getting you shitty or result. And because I'm trying to be very accurate, this example, you're more likely to get something in 585 like 15 then 13 then 11 then 9 reps, and you're way getting way more ups on the first, than even second set of this example, because you're not tired from 1 million fucking warmups. You've had a great workout, but any of the fluff, the thing is people do this kind of stuff, the 10, 10, 10, 10, all the sending. Mostly just because it's thoughtless, and it even made that a mean way, they just never really thought about it. There's all kinds of cool tricks to learning shit and it saves you time, and here's one of them, so please do it. And of course, to keep the example similar afterwards, definitely sucks in the locker room. Again, why would you get rid of the best part of your training plan? You meet people in there, they look at you, you take your clothes off, they're like, what are you doing? You're like, it's a locker room, and they're like, oh my god, I'm so sorry, but I don't want to say this, but you are just, I need to like, I just, it's just me, you know, but I don't want to, but they do want it, and they're like, let's go in the bathroom stall. And that's every Tuesday for me. I'll see you guys next time.

Hey folks, it's me, Dr. Mike, for Anastons Prevolution, and on today's BS series, we attack the idea that artificial sweeteners can make you gain weight. People say it all the time. I stay away from that fake sugar man, because it don't make me fat, and then I ain't going thin into my truck. Woo! Southerners, I'm deeply apologetic for laughing at your expense. But really excited your expense. Your son was generally cool as fuck, and they'd go with people trying to get old Southern accent. Let me know how I did. I have way more things to say in Southern if you approve of my accent in the comments. A hey, bad, how do you want? It's really not Southerners. That's unfair. I was going to say another term, but you two, you two, you two, will flag us one, they got the video guy. You know what I'm saying. Anyway, the idea that artificial sweeteners make you gain weight and get really fat is supported by one kind of study, and that's called a correlational study. They take a whole bunch of people, and they ask them, or measure somehow, how much artificial sweetener intake like for example, diet soda that they have in their diet. And they find time and time again that fatter people consume an average of more artificial sweeteners than people who are not remotely fat and are quite lean in a very good shape. And then people take this, and because people hate artificial sweeteners already anyway, and that's called the argument from nature, fallacy, or the naturalistic fallacy, depending on your choice, words. They already have that built-in. So they go and run and say, see I told you, I told you, these things are making us fat, big food and big pharma, selling you the things that make you fat, and then selling the medicines, man. And they keep you tipped to Pharma, man, with whole whole whole whole. Anyway, that's generally how the conversation goes. It is right as far as it goes, because Fatter people do an average consume more artificial swimmers. But correlation does not equal causation. It can, but often does not. It's just not reliable. For example, you will notice that the vast majority of people who have broken legs have casts on. But if we were to say, I think this cast structure is breaking people's legs that would be a curious conclusion. And insanely entirely wrong. Because the cast is something that after you get the broken leg, you put on there to make the broken leg better. Just like maybe, just maybe, people who have discovered that through other poor eating habits and lack of physical activity, they have become overweight, may think, how can I help this condition of being overweight? Aha, I'll have artificial swimmers. I'll have a diet coke instead of a regular coke. And at least for some time, while they're doing this, they are still overweight. And some of them replace some things with diet. They have more diet products. But they also have just more regular food. Those people that go to McDonald's. And they start ordering. And they're like, have a diet coke. And the person behind the counter is like, ha, a health nut, I got you. And they get ready to press the button. This is the salad, they're going to go to the salad next. They're like five fry orders, extra large, extra salt, 10 cheeseburgers, 27 piece chicken nugget. Like, sir, that's not, that's not thing. It's just 20 piece nuggets. We can give you two of those. Like, no, I want 27 nuggets. I'm going to get out of my car and bad things will happen. Do you understand? And you're like, yes, absolutely, we will put 27 exactly nuggets in there. And they're like, oh, and a frosty. This is McDonald's. The frosty is a Wendy's product. And the responses, of course, if I have to get out of this car, like, right back up up up frosty is all for the customer. In the end, a lot of people who have the diet products, who are also overweight, just consume a crap load of other food to they continue to stay on the fat or side of things, a lot of moral judgment, that's just truth. And they also consume lots of diet products. So when we do the meta studies and it shows, like, well, one more fat people, consumer diet products, it really just doesn't prove to us at all that the diet products are contributing to obesity. But because we are scientific and open minded on this channel, maybe there's some kind of mechanism through which diet products could artificial sweeteners could somehow contributing increased obesity. Maybe. But it turns out scientists have looked into pretty much all of the known candidate mechanisms and have come up with, like, colleague Dr. James Hoffman, Diddley Dick, for example, sweeteners do not seem to mess reliably or on a very large magnitude with insulin secretion. So that one's out. Most of them don't really measureably mess with gut bacteria. They do for a little while on the bacteria who's back to normal. And in fact, the natural sweetener, stevia, stevia. Whenever I say stevia, I feel like I just talk in a guy named Steve. And actually the natural one messes with it more. So it's curious there. But the gut bacteria certainly doesn't explain the obesity. And we could speculate all up to the moon and back about how this mechanism works. Of course, we're proposing there's a mechanism, because remember, it could just be correlation. It could just be likely is that better people just have more diet products in the same way that people with broken legs get casts trying to fix the problem. How can we figure out if this really is a thing? Well, we do the gold standard of scientific evidence the randomized control trial. Otherwise known in it as RCT. You really want to serve some science up to somebody and you're in a debate. You print up double bound RCTs and throw it at people. As hard as you can, that should all do some damage. It's a thick. Make sure you include it over the references because it thickens up the stack. In any case, randomized control trials, as when we take people and they enroll in the trial and we split them up into two groups. Potentially, this is how a trial could look. We say, hey, both of you folks have to have the same diet. And we're going to monitor your diet, make sure you're doing a good job. And we're going to feed one group of folks, a sweetened beverage that is sweetened with real sugar, has really calories. And another group, we're going to give you a beverage. You know, twice a day or something three times a day that has artificial sweetener and actually doesn't have any calories. But we're not going to tell you which one is which, and you'll have no idea which group you're in. Randomized, because we pick the people at random to make sure there's nobody self-selecting into groups and biasing us. And we go in and we do that. We observe them for two to four months. And we see how the result is shown in their weight and in their body fat. And most of the time, the weight loss that you get from the artificial sweetened group is exactly the same weight loss as if you took that sugar water and replaced it with just water. And nearly unanimously, artificial sweeteners do not cause weight gain like the sugar water does. And almost always they cause weight loss because how could they not? If that has zero calories, you drink it. Nothing happens, your body's like, what the fuck? Where's my food? Fuck, I got to go dinging through my own fat stores and you lose fat and you lose weight and it's great for your health. This is a direct test of the hypothesis, the idea that you can get fatter by consuming artificial sweeteners, multiple times, pretty much all the times, it has just failed. And it's not just failed. It's shown the opposite to be true. The people lose as much weight as you would predict, them to lose by replacing the regular soda, regular orange juice of water. If they replace it with diet soda or diet or in juice, I didn't have a good clever thing to say about that. That's like, probably tastes like sunny D. No offense, it's the worst thing on earth. Remember when I came to America, I moved here from Russia a thousand years ago. And I had my first sunny D and I thought, gee, this is gonna be a tasty orange juice. And I had a golf and I was like, this is an industrial solvent. I'm gonna die. I didn't die, but I got wise enough to never drink sunny D again. And to the corporation that makes sunny D, I'm deeply sorry, I'm sure whatever you guys do is awesome. This is not a thing. Artificial sweeteners do not predictably cause weight gain. They do not interfere with weight gain. They are essentially as far as weight and body fat are concerned basically inert. So the idea that taking in artificial sweeteners is better for you than taking in regular sweeteners seems right on. But the idea that regular sugar doesn't make you fatter or regular sugar makes you fatter for artificial sweeteners make you just as fat or that artificial sweeteners make you fatter than just consuming water, there's a term for that idea. What? They're Arnold said it once. Bullshit. Yeah, and that last part is critical because if you're gonna do good Arnold pressure every now and again, a random Arnold noise has to be included. One of my favorite people of all time, a science teacher that sort of mentored me in high school, he's like, why doesn't Arnold ever say, Ouch, when he gets hurt. Every time he gets hurt in a movie, like he either rock it, you know, shot at him, he goes, Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What is it that he's doing? I don't wanna know. Love it, Arnold, you're the man. You folks are all the man. You know, in a general sense, I've said enough. Possibly too much. See you next time.

Chill people, get more jacked on average, the people who can't chill. That's a real thing. If you're gonna take Ashbrook onto the boost your test to level 9 trillion, is that gonna work? But if you reduce your cortisol substantially with it, and boost your test a little bit, that's where a lot of these other benefits really come from. Because if you think about it, in many cases, cortisol is kind of the anti-testosterone. Dastonatesh jack, or a phoenix, less jack, test makes you leaner, cortisol makes you less lean. All of a sudden, Ashbrook is a little bit of performance and answer, a little bit, of a muscle growth supplement, like... It could be that Ashbrook onto a deeper cellular level can boost your gains in the longer term. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for RP Strength, and I have a huge update for you about the state of the research in 2025, about Ashbrook onto... Ashbrook onto... Let me see, Baba. I believe that as direct quote from the movie, the Lion King. And later, the movie also called the Lion King, again, but now an updated lifelike digital format. And Scott the Video Guys, absolutely favorite thing to do is to watch the Lion King on ice off Broadway. Scott, how many times have you gone to Lion King on ice? I mean, I have season tickets too. Thank you. To every quote, quote, game of the Lion King on ice. All right, so here's the deal. A brand new, very large review article, just hit the scene about Ashbrook onto, and it really isn't awesome article, because it covers so much of what you need to know about Ashbrook onto. To figure out if is it a supplement that you could benefit from taking? How, what to expect downsides and risks the whole gamma? So let's take a deep dive. The study name is with Ania Somnifera in parentheses Ashbrook onto, which is its plant name supplementation in review of its mechanisms, health benefits, and role and sport performance. I'm saying you had a party in our dam, but you're saying what's your name girl? Well, she's like with Ania. You're like, oh, so Ania, feeling that, what's your last name? I feel like I've gone to class with you. She's like Somnifera. You're like, ah, Somnifera, Somnifera. Anyway, would you like some punch? Yes? The Ditty Party. Scott, did you know that trial as of this recording is currently happening? It's very exciting. Are you excited? I'm so if you've been keeping up with it. I haven't, but I'm ready to see how it ends out. I know there's some sweat and celebrities out there. Ashden, cut your left the country apparently. Get the f*** out of here. He went, he was he frequented those. I mean, he's just a good clean font, right? Baby oil. Very clean. Very clean. Literally clean, but morally, maybe not. The authors that made the study possible are awesome people. They are from Poland. They are from the Gdansk University of Physical Education in Sport and Poland. I'm going to butcher their names. Not as bad as Anglophone people would. Because I got that secret Russian twist, but Bolskogurob. So let's see if I can get this. I'm going to, I'm going to miss pronounce these, but hopefully not terribly. So we have Matesh Springer, Rydislav Lekovsky. Oh, this is a dope, super Scott. This one has like 18 consonants. Is Biegenie fios? Sir, what's your name? Biegenie f***? How do you spell it? He's like, don't worry about how you spell it. And I'm saying, but because they're Polish, they're probably all six foot three and in perfect shape and 220 pounds. And just exists like this because Polish people are better. It was published in February of 2025, which is a very, very recent for an nutritional review article. So it's very top tier. And it was published in the Journal of Nutrition and Metabolism, which actually has the distinction of having one of the most exciting and indirect names in all scientific journals. Hey, what's this journal about? Nutrition and metabolism. Oh, so is that like kind of like a nutrition and metabolism? Uh-huh. Oh, cool. dope. And Scott is a possible if we throw the PubMed link in the description there somewhere. I remember yes. Now, if Scott remembers yes, if not, you know, chat you be to exists. So the study design is very important. It is what's called a narrative review, which means that there are no formal, super grainy statistics applied to the whole thing. They just talk about all the studies, aggregate all the studies they can find. And in a way that is basically a descriptive way, talk about the results and the implications and conclusions and all that stuff. So it's not something you can cite and go, okay, exactly these things were found, but it is very helpful to get the big picture lay of the land, especially for practical applications. Who's got limitations of not being as super ultra quantitative as we would like, but it's got real advantages in giving us a good qualitative description of the state of the field. And it does this very, very well. They studied mechanistic pathways of Ashwaganda, which we're not going to cover here, because they're honestly super sciencey and boring. I don't want to bore you guys to tears. The many other great YouTube channels for that sort of thing. Probably this one on most days. They covered sport performance outcomes. Like strength and power and view to the actual beginning to all those body composition shifts. They're talking about muscle gain, a little bit of a mention of fat loss, some appetite and cravings control stuff. Clinical domains, like fertility, anxiety, metabolic health, glucose control, lipids aging, and they address future research gaps, which we'll talk about with those are down the line. So I would say there are by six main variables that they studied, which we'll go through, and then seven secondary variables, that are maybe not front of mind, but numb the less important. We're going to go through each variable. And basically, give you guys the raw, super quick cut deal of like, what does Ashwaganda do for this outcome that you might be interested in? The first most important outcome ever, anywhere in all of science, like we got our comedies, you know what I'm saying? Copernicus, they did great work. Darwin, Einstein, Ray Kurtzwile, all of that led into lean mass gains. Lean mass gains, the most important thing you could ever study, because it's how jack you are. And what is more important than being jacked? Oh, in case you have an answer, check this out. Exactly. Boom. So most of these benefits through all of the research I'm on a site, is seen in that roughly 300 to 600 to 900 milligram per day range. So typically, you take about 600 millimeter of Ashwaganda, usually in the morning when you wake up, and then you do that for 08 to 12 weeks, which is the duration of many of the studies involved here, and you're going to see some of these benefits. So for all of this, the supplies, and for lean mass, there is a discernible increasingly mass that's measured and verifiable. But it comes out to roughly a few pounds of muscle over that typical time course, which is as I roughly estimate it with the help of opening eyes O3 reasoning model, something like 25 to 40 percent of the effect of the Tier 1 muscle gain supplement that's legal and available and has no crazy downsides, creatine. So about 25 to 40 percent of the potential muscle mass gains of creatine, which is like good, because creatine's really good as far as not pharmaceutical enhancement goes mild, but like, yeah, okay, okay, Ashwaganda probably gonna grow you a little bit of muscle, which is really really cool. But it's not going to just fill you up with total jackness right away. It's just know what you're getting into is a little bit of a mild boost. Very important to know. For max strength, like one or invention squat, for example, we saw another similar this time a little bit higher, 40 to 60 percent of the effect of creatine so notably a high effect size. It was really good, really distinct. And it looks like, you know, you get a kind of five to eight percent over eight to 12 week protocols of a bump in one or at max from Ashwaganda, where from creatine you typically see an eight to 12 percent jump. So this is good. And remember, these Ashwaganda works through different pathways than creatine. So it likely in many cases additive. So throwing an Ashwaganda during an important training phase, starting to look like, hey, it's not the end of the world, but it might very well help. They did an examination on power and explosive performance. And they were like five to seven, depending on how you count them randomized control trials involving power outcomes with Ashwaganda supplementation. And all kinds of different subjects mixed training status, some train, some untrained, some somewhere in between. And the gains there are much smaller for two reasons. One, Ashwaganda seems not to have as big an effect on power, but also power is just small change anyway, because it changes so slowly and so little over time that it, it a little bit of a measurement problem. So it's not this crazy explosive supplement, but it will help you on the margins in most cases. What it does do, even better than creatine, better than most supplements, and maybe all supplements that are you would typically take, is it does increase your VO2 max multiple studies of shown this? It seems pretty well hypothesized at this point that this is a good effect. And so it really, in the boost seems to be over a course of eight to 12 weeks, a roughly four milliliters per kilogram per minute gain in VO2 max. And the way you measure VO2 max is typically like if you have a VO2 max of under 30, you consider probably pretty poor health, 30 to 40 is kind of a normal person, 40 to 50 someone's really good shape, 50 to 60 is like really good shape, 60 pluses like Olympic caliber good shape, and depending on the modality and how you measure at 70 pluses like, you know, mothership and too many people like you. And so you get a boost over eight to 12 weeks, a four like man, like that's pretty good. You know, if you round that couldn't like, you know, optimistically to five, that's like, you know, like you get new from in good shape to like pretty damn good shape. So definitely keep an eye on more research for this because if the VO2 max stuff plays out, then increase in a row of the capacity, you can increase the recovery between sets and sessions, get you a little bit better for high reps. Here's the thing about VO2 max. Truthfully, I could give this zero, it's about VO2. Okay, I do compete in Juts. I can give a lot of, it's about VO2, but I'm not good at it. And I don't care and being Jack is the ultimate thing in this world. That's a little quote by God from every Holy text. If you have read every single Holy text, that's the 11th commandment. And so I, VO2 max is fine wherever it is. Just keep it away from me. However, however, if you are doing high reps sets and to my reps and my match, my match stuff really clustering your sets together, like you would in the RPG hypertrophy, aptly in the description. Then, if you're VO2 max sucks, it's actually more difficult to push your muscles close to failure because your cardio gives out first. Your muscles are like, I still got it and your heart and lungs are like, ah, we're doing shit. So if you boost your VO2 max in a way that requires a lot of endurance training, you might be giving up some of the adaptability because endurance training does make you better at endurance, but might after a while reduce your ability to gain muscle because it transforms your fiber types a little bit from faster twitch which grow muscle really well to slower twitch, don't grow it as much. So at the end of the day, if you can take a supplement that like meaning fully boost your VO2 max, man, I might be while in your way to get in a few more reps out, close to failure when you're breathing really hard with short rest breaks, especially if you have a condensed training window for a few hours a week where you do a back-to-back alternating compound supersets and stuff like that. And like, yeah, this could definitely help. So definitely keep an eye on this VO2 max situation. Mirroring that, the recovery and fatigue data is interesting because many of the studies show a decrease in soreness perception and an increase in perceived recovery. And this isn't a huge deal. It's as measured recovery scales, 10 to 20% better. But listen, if someone said like, hey, do you want to take a supplement that'll boost your recovery however we measure it by 15%. But what exactly say, no, I don't think that sounds pretty good. And because so far Ashbagaanda has seemed to have no negative health effects, it's super cheap. It doesn't screw up a ton of stuff with hormone-wise, which we'll see in a bit, like, man, all these things added up, like, I'm going to look pretty good, looking pretty damn good. Now, the next thing is satellite cell activation. Satellite cells are these cells that sit just outside of your functional muscle cells. And if you train really hard and really push the limits of growth, they activate and they fuse into your muscle and help grow it even bigger. And even after you lose muscle size, if you don't train for a little while, the satellite cells kind of never leave and then you start training again. It's like training with better genetics. That's why rebound gains from like being off for a while or humongous, you get back all of your muscle really fast. In animal data, very limited animal data in Ashbagaanda, they have seen the higher incorporation and higher proliferation and differentiation of satellite cells. So no human data yet, so let's not go crazy because rodents sometimes be a little different. However, Scott, you ever see a mouse and you're like, I'm not like in a trans-species stuff, but that's a cute mouse. I mean, they're adorable. I don't mean like that. I mean sexy, adorable. I see, so you and I were saying the same. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Guys, we are a God fearing channel and we don't mean to put this Satanism on you constantly, seemingly subconsciously, it flows from us. Well, for me, but Scott, you've never really pulled me away from the Satanic shit. Have you? No, I let you burn in sin. Wow. Yeah, I mean, look, you know, like can't, you can't fool God, right? You're like, hey, Mike's just going to be himself and a lightning bolt comes through. In any case, speculating on mouse attractiveness completely aside, yeah, man, this looks promising. This looks promising and definitely food for thought. So it could be that Ashbagaanda on a deeper cellular level can boost your gains in the longer term. That is all the primary variables, but that doesn't mean they're the only important ones because we have seven secondary variables. I want to talk about that are also at the very least insightful. And the first one true to my nature is Ashbagaanda's effect on anxiety. Anxiety is the thing that you get as a secondary effect of being Jewish. That's not wrong, but I guess that's not the whole thing because other people also get anxiety. And so anxiety is totally fine. The proper physique. The problem is that oftentimes anxiety will reduce your quality of sleep, duration of sleep. It'll boost your cortisol, which actually directly does inhibit muscle growth performance recovering all that stuff. And so as a psychological booster, Ashbagaanda absolutely has an effect at anxiety that's modest and really like what you can describe as fairly convincing. It does reduce anxiety. And it seems to work best in chronically stressed adults, i.e. at least half of you. The dose response is still fuzzy. We're not sure exactly where that peaks out, but at 600 milligrams, you're going to get one good effect on an average or most case. And so if it's just for psychological purposes, this will just help you be less anxious, which like objectively makes your life better. But on a physiological purposes, because it's probably doing the anxiety reduction, at least in part, maybe in whole from lowering your cortisol levels, which will get to in just a second, this is a good thing for making you more jacked as well. Chill people get more jacked on average than people who can't chill. That's a real thing. Next, HPTA, Hypoithalemic Petuitary Access is going to be as technically go nadal and there's somewhere, but we'll skip that part. Are we then up talking about gonaz? Scott, have you ever looked at a mouse's gonaz and you were like, do all boy has it? Oh, just doing it. I just know that about them, but now I'm going to Google image stage. Honestly bro, okay, so in high school biology, I help my science teacher take care of some of the animals because I frankly had no friends and he was an amazing person. And once we got some rats shipped over for some like experiments the students were doing and it's supposed to be female only rats, but they put a male in by accident. He was two times the size of the female rats. And Scott, like I kid you not bro, like he weighed like a pound, right? Like he was the size of like your forearm. Okay, okay, right? So he was the size of he was a rat. He was a rat. It's a huge mouse hole. Yes, he was the size of your forearm, but his testicles, which is how we knew he was amailed by the way, we didn't have to look hard. They were Scott, no joke. Half the size of an adult man's balls. Oh my god. That ratio of body to not size is like gonaz. I was like, what? And here's something you might want to not hear. How did it taste? Amazing. Oh, well, I didn't eat them. I didn't kill the rat. I did hook up with the rat. No joke. He, like, was he crawled over the cage, like just like crawling on top of the cage with all the other female rats. And I kid you not bro, this is really disturbing. He had like some kind of glandular secretion on his testicles. And it robbed it. Like you could see it like leaving a little bit of fluid on the cage as he like literally dragged his nuts over the cage. And the female rats Scott were desperately trying to scamper up towards him. Like freaking out, like trying to climb the cage. Like Scott, they were trying to worship their king. Wow, I'm trying to get some of that secretion. You know what I'm saying? Was, you feel me? It was like the manly as shit I'd ever seen in my life. This guy, like, imagine like people were expecting a certain thing. And another thing shows up that's two times the size with gigantic door balls and has got the ladies cooking. King energy. Your boys secreting over here. Yeah, it's a creaton. And funny enough, I believe if memory serves the first scientist, of course, a German, tried and successfully before isolating testosterone, blended and injected rat testicles into himself. And he got like a very lousing effect. I'm telling right now, like, I'm sure he had a fever for a long time. There's a lot of stuff in there that's not testosterone. That later he got children's guy and they came out as a rat people. Wow, that part's not true. They were a quarter, a quarter rat person because he had half human DNA then and half rat DNA in his own genitals. And the woman he met and a loved was a bully, believe it or not, fully human, just not my prediction. But then a quarter rat babies. Anyway, that was a one hell of a tangent. That's what we're known for. Very robust dampening of cortisol from most of these studies on Ashwaganda and a little bit but notable and detectable in a real world to bump in testosterone. If you're going to take Ashwaganda to boost your test to level 9 trillion, is that going to work? But if you reduce your cortisol substantially with it and boost your test a little bit, that's where a lot of these other benefits really come from. Because if you think about it in many cases, cortisol is kind of the anti testosterone. Test an HGAC or a thomachus, last Jack, test makes you leaner, cortisol makes you last lean, test fills you with confidence, cortisol fills you with literally the opposite of like a feeling of fear and vulnerability. So if you really low or cortisol and you're really lower testosterone, that's just kind of less of you as a human. If you're really lower cortisol with Ashwaganda and you boost testosterone a little bit, that on the aggregate is a pretty big effect. This is really good stuff which makes Ashwaganda a reliable buffer to stress and the endocrine shifts we saw which testosterone and cortisol are still in that normal physiological range. It doesn't screw you up. It doesn't shut down your testosterone production. It just makes you a little bit more optimized, much more optimized in the cortisol side and the stress side, a little bit optimized in the testosterone side, which is really, really dope. But it doesn't end there because Ashwaganda has mechanistically solid proof and a little bit of human proof now emerging that shows a reduction of inflammatory cytokines, basically molecules that like inflame your whole body and make all kinds of shit go not so well. And this plausibly contributes to the recovery benefits, but probably contributes to health in a pretty decent way. So all of a sudden Ashwaganda is like a little bit of performance and answer, a little bit of a muscle growth supplement, a little bit of strength and a little bit of health. Like, you know, this is start to look real curious. We can't get to far out of our cells of speculation. I'll say why towards the end of this in the kind of limitations of this sort of review on all the studies in it. But we can get very, very curious. Appetite and cravings control was studied. Zero human appetite specific trials, very speculative of a quarter-saule left in interaction. It would say it's interesting. Need much more data. I just don't think that Ashwaganda is going to be a big appetite suppressant to be completely honest, like with trisappetite around, or it doesn't need any more appetite suppressant. But it's probably if it's an appetite suppressant at all, which is unclear, it's going to be a very, very mild one. Some people when they have high cortisol exposure, they get way less hungry. Some people know change, and other people get way more hungry stress eaters, which not everyone is, by the way. And so if you are a stress eater because of the cortisol-leptin interaction, yeah Ashwaganda might actually substantially regulate your appetite. But it's not going to be this drug that dependably most people take and their appetite goes down. On the glycemia thing, glucose control, which is a really predictive of health, they have demonstrated a decrease in fasting glucose and glycosylated hemoglobin, a one-c, which is a really good long-term measure of glucose health essentially, glycemic health. And so it's nowhere near as powerful as frontline medications for diabetes, like semagmatide and trisappetite and a bunch of trurlicity in all those other ones. I think that an HIV medication or diabetes treatment. I know the glycemia stuff, good news, not a big thing. But hey, all these sprinklings of these very mild tomaterate positives, kind of look pretty damn good. Same story with lipids, blood fats, as with glucose, mildly beneficial. The pool data seems to show that we have a reduction in total cholesterol, a reduction in LDL, the bad cholesterol, and unchanged on that good cholesterol, but also bit of a reduction in triglycerides. So nothing crazy, single-digit percentage shifts, nothing you can get from real medicines for this kind of stuff. Sure, shit, not what you would get from semagmatide and trisappetite, but in the right direction, which is really good. And then the last variables kind of aging and age-related vitality, there's just only early glimmers of this. I wouldn't put a lot of stock into it. There are three small trials in older adults and a few cognition studies showing memory and reaction time perks. And this might be something you would expect from cortisol modulation, especially if you have very high cortisol levels, you can actually reduce temporarily your ability to be fluidly cognizant of things because you're in like fighter flight mode. It's like someone's like there's terrorists at the front of the plane and you're in the back shaking with a, in like a straw, you're going to defend yourself with and someone's like, hey, can you a factor of this equation? You're like, what the f***? Like it's kind of low key like that. So just through that mechanism alone, we could potentially see some of those cognitive enhancement. Nothing to write home about yet. So I would just say that one's like, ah, maybe, maybe now. So the bottom line kind of insight that the authors of the study draw, and it's in a many amazing study, I would highly encourage you to look through it if you're really sciencey, is Ashwaganda is a, quote, moderate multi mechanism adjunct. It's not like a creatine level, like just totally powerful supplement for getting jacked and strong, et cetera, but it is potentially, uh, because halfway to creatine on strength and size and all that stuff has some really awesome stress management, uh, VO2 max enhancing and some other health benefits for the inflammation, et cetera, they're really, really good on the aggregate. Now that's the good news. Let's get to a little bit or not. So good news on study limitations and, uh, kind of hold our horse a little bit and then get to the TLDR. So first of all, this is a narrative review, and not a systematic review or meta analysis. So they didn't do any, uh, like, risk of bias scoring, which can eliminate entire pools of studies, because like that study is almost certainly bullshit kind of thing. So they're really just kind of vibing, but vibing is very important, especially in qualitative there is a high sample heterogeneity, which means like the studies are kind of like all sorts of different populations. So you can't really tell like, hey, like what about like just testing if like one specific like a young male, um, you know, 18 to 22 year old college resistance train population 10 times in a row on all sorts of different stuff. And you get a really good understanding because it's a very stable environment. High heterogeneity means like just setting on all people here, the city and young women here, there's three studies on males here, two of my trained one trained. You kind of have to like scratch your head and be like, okay, we're seeing a lot of stuff in these different ones, but it gets a little complicated. So our like confidence of concluding, this is really what's happening and why is a little bit lower. Typically what you want is a good homogeneity of baseline studies. And when you have a lot of that to really conclude like in this specific group of people, something is really for sure happening. Later you get a heterogeneous bloom of studies out, very different kinds of studies to conclude that we have mechanism, we have the straightforward understanding and now we have the application to different people. If you have a few very homogeneities, it's okay. And this population of worse, we have no idea if it's going to work for anyone else. If you have a small number of heterogeneities, you're like, you know, really, you know, as so much complex you're going, I don't really know what's happening. So this is a little bit more of that ladder, not terrible, but not ideal. And most of these studies are fewer than 60 participants, which means you can't detect small effects. That's probably for the best because small effects usually point less than a talk to as you know, I'm doing anything. And it's e to 12 weeks long. In most cases, just limitation of normal study design. So we don't really know what happens after three months, well, Ashburg, and doesn't see anything bad from the user reports, but we can't be sure of that. There is a sex bias, which actually, if you guys don't know this, but Scott, the video guy used to be a romance novelist, and he has a whole series one through 18 of a book called Sex Bias. Pretty good, how's Scott? Yeah, that's good. Yeah, yeah, I remember the novelist. And I, I'd like cover art is like, you know, a damsel in distress, yes, we'd buy a man on a horse. Wow, that's pretty pretty straightforward. I like that's the cover art for a book called Sex Bias. You're like, but is it, does anything do with the book? Oh, no, no, it's about a young lawyer who's struggling to find romantic connection. But there is a horse scene. Mr. Hand, look it up. Mr. Do not look up Mr. Hand, the horse scene. Go look it up. If you're a child, don't look it up. This channel's for adults. Scott, did you know what, bro? I think I told you this, but like I was at a mall in Texas, and I got basically surrounded and bullied by a group of 12 to 14 year olds. They were very kind. They were sweet people. But then I was like, you guys watched the channel. They were like, yeah, and I'm like, stop watching the channel. There's nothing on here. Christian for you folks. Good God. Go watch from Sam. Blues clues. Show like that. Do I have a problem with telling different age kids apart? Scott. I do as well. Can you imagine, like, you have like a 13 year old cousin, you get her birthday party gift. You're like, it's polka hauntest, the DVD set. She's like, are you serious? You're like, don't kid love shit like this. All right, I'll get you a barbeque. She's like, I'm leaving. Whatever. Um, uh, hell, would you get the third Scott, I actually realize something while, while telling that bullshit fake story. If, if, uh, like, I've multiple friends and family who are eventually going to have 13 year old girls, I have absolutely no idea what you would get these people for a birthday gift. That's, that's a great question. I actually don't either. With the hell do kids like nowadays? Also, it's an awkward age because you're like, not kid any more, but like a grown up, uh, a Lannis Morisets CD. Yeah. Make up stuff now, right? But are you giving a kind of like, okay, this is a problem with that. Scott, you're not wrong. But one hell of a hint with makeup, because, hey, you need this. It could be taken wrong. Another one is mom and dad can be like, what are you doing? Like, I, I, I think your daughter likes this. I'm going to see myself out, land mine. And the last part is like, Scott, like, um, what do you know about what type of makeup that people use? And it's absolutely zero. Like, the store has makeup and people buy it. That's as far as I go. You're going to an ass. That's how you think the girls work out there. You go to like, maybe it's in your like, hey, so one of my nieces 13 and uh, kind of make up to those people use. She's like, I don't know what's her complexion. You're like, what's a complexion? She's like, get out of here. Oh, by the way, here by this $250 makeup gift certificate. Yeah, see Scott, that really probably is the move, huh? Like, like, an Amazon gift certificate. You just go to Macy's, you're going to Altza, God, everybody knows that. Whoa, you do know some things. Altza? Is it Altza, like a mattress store? No. All right. Well, there you go. And that's what if I can Scott know about 13 year old females? Functionally, nothing. I can't even pick a model of a crowd. So uh, sex bias. That's how I got to this. Um, 80% of these studies were on young men, a few on old folks. The first female randomized control trial for athletes only appeared in 2025. Uh, so that's a bit of a limitation. So if you're female, I actually can literally well, I really tell you as a researcher. I have no idea what Ashwagant is going to do for you who the f*** knows. Uh, we need more data on that doesn't mean you shouldn't take it or something like that, but you probably shouldn't take it or something like that. Um, geographic clustering, the uh, many of these studies were run in India, which is dope in the Asafoet, by place, but with identical extract suppliers. And so you got to wonder, is there potential publication funding bias? Like if we had 10 studies and creatine and nine of them for from Wisconsin, I'd be like, what the hell is going on here in Wisconsin? It doesn't mean there's bias. It just means we can't get too far ahead of ourselves and me like for sure Ashwagant is all these great things. We got to be like, hey, there are some really cool stuff. Let's see if a lot of other labs around the world can confirm this before we go out to the store and spend a hard-earned money on gallons of the stuff. There's a bit of ambiguity, on dose and extract from what I understand. It could be wrong KSM66. I think it's called uh, is like the best Ashwagant that's kind of the purist, but I share a shit if used dollar Ashwagant before and apparently it's not as good. So especially if you go buy it at the store, I would say like you look for high quality Ashwagant and maybe talk to chatchipyty about what that even is before you go. Don't just get anything because a lot of supplement companies are great and some of them are just those just sell you whatever. And yeah, it's technically Ashwagant in here. I think they just like got the bark of the tree and put it in there. So Ashwagant gonna work. There's a little bit of kind of mechanistically progging. We say like, you know, satellite cells worked in mice and they're gonna work in people. Now the guy is truthfully did not say it in the study, but if you misread the study, you can get like, oh my god dude, Ashwagant is gonna double my my my in satellite cells by 18 trillion unlikely, uh, possible. But certainly not something we can confident include. Here's the thing you guys might have noticed to the sharp ear might have noticed that there's just no good fat loss data yet. We can talk about fat loss. And so there's no reason to suspect fat loss is gonna be hugely affected. Now, slightly increased testosterone significantly reduced cortisol over the long stretch of 12 week of a hypochloric diet could go better with Ashwagant and lead permissibly to more fat loss. But not directly through some like this thing literally burns fat. That's probably not happening. And of course, I already mentioned this short follow-ups nothing really longer than 16 weeks in literature. So chronic endocrine or hepatic changes like liver and hormone stuff is an open field. It says, you know, like basically like safety is a question mark. It's just highly unlikely Ashwagant is gonna be unsafe because the margins by which it moves your hormones are in the good directions. All of the stuff you see with the blood work is actually in the very good direction. And like that doesn't booster, testosterone, and often really shot anything down. Does that 100%. It's just nothing you should worry about, but it would be good to see more long-term literature. So TLDR for all of the conclusions here. Ashwagant seems like a really cool supplement for keeping your test up a little bit and dropping your cortisol substantially. It can definitely help keep anxiety lower. So I take it during my times when I take slightly more special sports supplements that drive me insane. And in the real world that can be a really big boost if you struggle with anxiety. And you just don't want to expect rapid muscle gains or fat losses. Like don't take Ashwagant for 12 weeks. No, I got it felt a little better. Everything went better, but I didn't get ripped. This supplements sucks. That's just not what you're gonna go get out of it. You can get much better muscle gains out of like antibiotics, psalms, modern weight loss drugs, like you know ligandrol for the psalms, trisapatide for the weight loss drugs. That's really heavy hit or stuff. Way more side effects for those drugs, but ligandrol, way way more side effects. But definitely like it's not that category of like jacked fuel or something, that however, especially like the last two thirds of a fat loss phase with hard training and good diet using the RP diet coach app using the RPiper to fiat if you're interested in ligandescription. It might make its biggest difference in that situation. And 300 or 600 milligrams every day of good high quality Ashwagant supplement, take it in the morning is totally fine. Yeah, yeah, it might make things go just a bit smoother, which really over the course of time can be a big deal. And I'll see you guys next time.

Alright guys, I'm here with friends who said, ah! Oh, Dr. Mike. Hey Bob. Hey Bob. Shut the fuck up. Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for an Assignalization might file a logical, son, dear, feather, I have to be pro. Father and son, hit the Olympia Expo. We're going to be talking to people. We're going to be asking people questions. Let's find stuff out about the people that they want to be exposed. There's three of you. Yes. We're going to play Mary Fockkill with the lead brothers. Is that the title of the video, too? Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Get real slow. Get all the way down. Oh yeah. I'm going to get your number later. Dad or just a man you met. Okay. You remember when they tell you with school, like, don't talk to strangers? What kind of candy would I have to give you for you to get in my van? South-East-East. Yep. Wait, watch you. Come on. You really? Yes. Are you on the YouTube side or the only fan side? You too. I'm sorry. I can't remember. What your name is is Dr. Something. All right, folks. We're here with Florida, man. In the flesh. Go away. Okay. So why did you come up and talk to me? What is a thing you need for me? All right. What do I do with these? I drink. Because you got that fire, Fuzzy. Your handsome. Oh, it's not crystal. That's my wife. Uh-oh. That's not any lead lifts. You're not dealing this guy, right? I'm not a lead nor do I live. So man, that's me. Shut the fuck up. Thank you so much for letting me sign your belt. Um, if I allowed to put racial slurs on here, don't you? Yeah. Well, say something to YouTube. Oh, my gosh. Good. I know. I just. What do you have to say to our YouTube audience? Uh, good. Thank you. I've never done this before. I've never done this before. Oh, my God. What's going on? All right, guys. I'm here with Dr. Zach. How's Dr. Zach? How's Dr. Zach? How are you, buddy? I'm doing fantastic. That's awesome. What do you think's the best part of your life? Yeah. I would say meeting the fans to be honest. I'm a friend of mine. Third grade. It's incredible. How do you like your impression? Is he doing good? Ah! How does that make you feel that I'm sexually attracted to you? Um. DJ Westgiv. I. Sacked genetics recovery support group. And I got to be honest. We made a really good strides together. Until we, well, ended up together. And then all that shit went down the drain. Hey, but it was fun, wasn't it? Hey. How am I supposed to work channel members of prophetic masturbators? All right. I never leave the house. Yeah. What was some tip they can use to meet pretty girls. Sure. Hearing about your bench. They love that. He's a king by your deadly thing. Powerlifting. They love all of that. Yeah. They love it. Maybe like fall them for point two miles. And then get on your knees. Yeah. Perfect. Yeah. Yeah. It's very easy. We don't give you your night. It's your set of cashew. A real man. A black hoodie. A real man. I want you guys at the same time to say your ethnicity on three. One two three. Chinese. You forget the white side. You want to see something funny? Shank. I got one. Two. My name. What's your name? My name? What's your name? My favorite part. When there's a woman's competition? Yeah. Some of them don't do so well. And then some of them meet me afterwards. So I came around to show like a scumbag. And when I see the ones that are crying. No, no, it's okay. Girl, don't you work more than loving arms? You deserve first. And if somebody else and somebody's arms, they might as well be mine. Mike, is her pal? Mike, what's good? He's got such bad things. I'm out there. So I take two non-Jewish people. I have all the restaurants we could have gone. So we just call them people who are from, well, we're out from, we don't. And I took them to a kosher Jewish restaurant last night. I heard it was going to be good. It was horrendous. So basically, they're like, more anti-Semitic now. Maybe. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't do well by us. I'm a girl, Tommy. Yeah, I want to fuck. Okay. How would you name? I, oh, Kelsey. You look a real bit tight, Kelsey. How about, you know, when we go to the macro, we're, you know, we're fucked. When I saw you, I wanted for you to put an immense amount of physical love on to me. Would that make you feel strange? No. So you're from me or? I am. Have you ever heard of my New Yorker guy Italian guy in Russia before? No, I'm sure I'm going to hear about. What's your given full name? I'd like to know that one. Oh wow. Don, Arthur, Saladino. Hey. Hey, Tommy. You fucking do it. Yes, we're, that's what we say. We're out there. Hey, that sounds like we're fucking British. We, we, we, we're back. Hey, you need something more like, Harry, like, um, fucking Pepo Bowie Saladino. I like that. I like that. I would take that for our deal, brother. You signed us off with something in New York, Hermit. Uh, the fuck outta here. Ha ha ha ha.

Listen, real talk. There's only one that he bought a bill there in here, and that's how you know we're being real Trying to say some shit about us What's up, RP YouTube? Today I have a client of mine from Hong Kong many of you might know who this is if you follow me on Instagram Some of you just do the YouTube thing, so maybe you don't but this is Marvin aka Marvin the Martian aka Martin if you're Scott our video guy But he is one of the leanest men of all time He's a natural pro when the WMBF He just got second place at the world world championships in LA and We are taking into national to try to give him an I for be for a card as well in the lightweight bodybuilding division So that'll be interesting, but it's tripping. Yeah, yeah, that's gonna be a good time I'm tripping listen to this guy the self doubts are already starting you can tell he's from Hong Kong Yes What is going to be a great time? Did they are putting him through a little pool session? Back today and then legs tomorrow. Yeah, oh, no push tomorrow. No legs tomorrow. Okay cool. So let's Let's get to it. Marvin's probably gonna take a shirt off at some point and everybody's gonna flip shit And you guys can make all the natural claims in the comments that you wish So we need to take a little bit wider grip than normal and you're gonna roll to the top of your chest and then so it's gonna be here And then you're gonna take it and you're gonna roll you're gonna take a little bit more now Grip and rode your stomach that shit. I try to be forward this this one is hard Yeah, so the higher we hit on the chest with a bit more of the upper back Okay, so like this Good In the nursery set your grip take more narrow grip To here yeah, I wonder we had weight on the other side and then you go road to stomach. Yeah, you're like this first exercise of the day is going to be a Barbell road to chest Super set with a barbell bin of a row. We're doing this to limit the load Marvin is between shows right now. He has like two and a half weeks left until nationals So we're really using a lot of the same variations What with intensity techniques thrown in so this intensity technique is this exercise was a barbell bit row But we're adding in that first component of barbell road to chest instead obviously It's more disadvantageous so it's a harder exercise so you're doing the road to chest first Limiting the load and then you're going into that bit row So this will be his first exercise then we're going to machine row and hitting the back later we're gonna do some bite of some delts My favorite part about this This is about to do the superset with 95 pounds Which I'm pretty sure we had a pretty jack female on the channel doing And half the comments in this video are still gonna be that he's not natural He's 154 pounds on stage Hi, little back or chest Marvin Every time There it is Oh Start There you go Just some like every time Big chest There you go Done What are you gonna say? I do What is that? What does it mean? Ah fuck this Sort of so many something works great Well I've done this but not this good form before yeah, that's great You see I can see a lot of growth in the off season yeah, I think we'll have a hard time about the off season Look at that true true body brother over here I mean he wanted work on your weakness way Chest There you go oh yeah Great stretch Big chest Reach there you go Be sure touch Oh yeah good stomach Big rope in rope and right Big chest Big Beautiful more Just slow down Good done Nice man yeah, my shred is good Yeah, you can warm from the primer over there if you want Clean it first Oh you're good. I got it. Okay. Thank you Ha ha Next exercise Simple because this is the only wrong machine in the gym is the prime seated row Marvin is gonna do the prime seat of row for you can put it on the same one put the same peg put on two I don't the force curve stuff So uh seated machine row For second exercise He was using something similar at dragon for the last month so this isn't too bad Three sets here 15 to 20 range this will be his last straight set movement before moving to in the TNT technique First one was a superset but we still rested a pretty good amount between sets Here he's gonna do two or three sets Uh 15 to 20 reps Rust a good amount Then what we go into the seated flexion row he's gonna be doing a giant set and he's gonna have a limited rest periods on that But it's really gonna cook his back finish it off before his last exercise. It was a vertical pulling exercise So horizontal emphasis today again. We're just doing enough volume to maintain this lean tissue between shows We had a couple of high days so he's definitely primed for a really good pump today So yeah, seated machine row Two to three sets 15 to 20 reps. Let's get to it You Don't want you to be very forceful on the concentric knee pull Which then people sometimes get confused and that first bit of their eccentric is also fast So they're like forceful, no like they just go like this and drop it. I want a forceful concentric phase on which you deposit And immediately switch back to all right this needs to be a slow eccentric melt the shit Are your eccentric and don't Because then another thing people do is they'll get to like the end of the eccentric and instead of continuing to stretch They'll be like okay, it's time to go up so they kind of bounce it's the same with both squats And they've been depressed they really control and then they kind of like double bounce off their chest and they try to push too too quickly So really control the eccentric you have a pause here with a full stretch and a pause here for the forceful concentric slow Pause all stretch stretch, stretch, stretch, forceful, right? Don't speed up any part of that motion because you're caught up in that concentric knee fast fast fast So it's it's gonna suck because there is gonna be a quarter-in-quote constant tension on the muscle right It's gonna hurt and you're gonna get less reps. Yes, but it's okay That's it good nice pause of the bottom too. It's good stuff I'm not worried about how many reps you get here Marvin. I won't ever erect to you fucking perfect So don't short change the concentric and don't short change the easy Of course hold come on Look remember Are you going back to the easy and your motion you can control? Yes Pull pull pull that's it Yes Marvin beautiful man. Let's go Oh Yeah, come on Marvin you got three for more Yes sir, yes sir, yes sir Full stretch full stretch forceful Last one last one let's go let's go oh you got another one now That was bullshit that was bullshit slow Martin slow slow slow slow stretch part hard hard Corsical good Talk that shit go ahead can't knees go ahead fucking Jared good Good stuff man. I love you Best set good stuff Fifty total reps Fifty fifty fifty five zero so like a dinosaur. Oh, so what do you think how do you feel with that weight Next exercise is going to be a seated cable flexion row It's an intensity technique as I stated before it's going to be a giant set but with short rest periods I've stated this in the channel already but There are two ways to perform a giant set one way is the giant's a kind of just allows you to Pick a target rep range pick a weight and that way weekly Especially during your contest prep when you really died it died it down and you're getting glycogen depleted And you feel like your court on court strength is dipping but really it's just a lack of glycogen This allows you to just focus on the number of the volume that you're getting in total the sets are like just kind of non-existent because you might get five sets one week and the next week It's really fucking hard so you get seven with the next week yet a repeat so it's four sets But you're getting it in this allocated rep range that you put on the week This week is 50 next week. So we go up by probably five to ten reps etc So you're not really worrying about the sets you're just able to focus on the weight the reps and Getting as many as you can with that weeks relative like proximity to failure So the relative intensity this week though. We're doing that with short rest periods So that's kind of a way you can spice it up and really really push them with tablites since this is week Two and a half weeks out That's really what we're trying to do. It's as last show of the year. He's been dieting for quite some time Definitely gonna be hard to get uh rep match next week because we're gonna be pushing the diet kind of hard 50 reps this week 55 next week. It might take four sets this week and it might take seven next week We're not really worried about that. We're just worried about keeping the rep rest period consistent Keeping the weight consistent and moving up and reps over the course of time We're more They just This is like Jackie Shit I really want you to focus on not short changing your eastern trick. Okay You get to a point where it gets hard and you start you know you're gonna be a tend to be a hard concentric So you kind of Short change you just try to go right back into right there keep stretch Which There you go Martin Beautiful stress one more more more Oh Seven left yeah I need to truth yeah, I mean if you just say oh fuck you doing good that no improvement That's I can so good jerk My my masturbation Do nothing good on the stage Yeah Yeah, one lie to you if you got a clean up your technique you got to clean it up If I think you're gonna do well to show you're probably gonna do well to show you know I'm not gonna lie to you about it. Yeah, sure. I think you can do very well Nationals, you know, thank you man. Yeah, so let's fucking I believe in you now so these next two weeks matter So this is the last seven See it making perfect Good morning, full stretch. Yes That's good Deep deep deep hanging out pull good shit Good job yeah, that was good the last wrap there how you kind of did it exactly as if you're gonna do another one It's perfect pull down's next You Last exercise of the day again this was a horizontal emphasis pulling a lot of rhomboid a lot of mid-trap Now we're gonna focus on the lats with a pull down exercise We do pull down here because he might be able to pull up she's 154 pounds I'm a fan of either assisted pull ups on the exercise or pull down variation It helps a lot because you're already super pumped most of your backs pretty toast including your Rectors so the pull down just helps you to be able to get kind of into the higher rep range Use this as a horizontal emphasis with lighter Vertical pulling so when you're doing a lighter vertical pulling you're trying to get into more that 10 to 20 rep range Pull down's a perfect for that so we're gonna do three sets here Probably 15 to 20 how like the upper range of that for this deep into contest prep Again just kind of building a tunnel to have a light it's just doing enough falling to 18 muscle tissue Three sets of 15 to 20 reps and that's gonna finish off the back workout We don't lean we pull you're just pushing your chest up fortunately Oh yeah Marvin Fucking perfect Good Marvin let's go Great stretch Ripped this part of it apart Ribbon part yes down big chest the lean I want it for some of what I'm gonna from the chest in the elbows Better yes Marvin that's perfect Deep stretch Oh yeah good stuff good How's that yeah a little different than you know Good okay so definitely That loss of technique right here and that's good Real movement highlight That's more more improvement Yeah looks good man Back though Good Marvin Hang out feel it stretch keep it up Just just just just just I'm just worried about quality kind of go shit about you actually getting her up That's it Done Thank you Good stuff to look at the side of the join us for this video Couple things first How do I know Marvin the reality is I wasn't always doctor might I wasn't involved some gang activity Hong Kong Singapore Shanghai I don't know what black tar heroin is but I know I do the shipments Amar who make sure local police everything's fine Me I'm like king pin you know just only in appearance The next thing is where was I why was I in this video again? I don't like to talk about it Jared knows this I have I've I've taught hip hop dance to underprivileged youth for 15 years in the Metro Detroit area It was just as so scheduled and everyone's eight eleven a.m. I'm there and you know it's like Watching those kids get that inspiration That's why Also technically I Overqualified to teach hip hop dance cuz I can pop and lock at the same time bet you're more focused never seen that shit Anyway, Jared how was the workout? It's good Marvin how do you feel? You pop and lock? No, we need to come to class mother fucker. Okay, next Wednesday. I'll see you in class Yeah, I was the first person. Excellent Yeah, what are you? No you look great Actually, the application self this is he is technically this is in water. So for you all out of that yeah exactly makes sense out of he had some sushi after his last show some caramel popcorn and theater But no, yeah, this is in water. He was just kind of wild because you guys are gonna make every fake Nadi claim known to mankind on this video and I can't wait 154 pounds 39 years old Yes lifetime now to bodybuilder. I'm unbelievable listen real talk There's only one nadi bodybuilder in here and that's how you know we're being real Technically we're not trying to say some shit about us here's the thing I know this is a long shop but to all you guys here that live in the Michigan Metro Detroit area of three of our followers that do Three of our subscribers yes, we will be taking Marvin two Bronners the world's largest Christmas store And that'll be amazing anything Scott the video guy I kind of feel like you should be there as well You'll hate it Jared I'm gonna pull out my lightsaber. It's not gonna be a pretty scene. There you go Anakin Skywalker We good good that was great. See you guys

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for NSW in today. I have a public service announcement for you. For the sake of the youngest people in our society, the children stop drinking through juice and stop feeding into your children. Child Protective Services, where are you at? That kid has a juicy juice box. Get mom and dad out of the picture. Guess what, Junior? You got to go live in a beautiful, caring, loving, stay run orphanage. Damn, I started up pretty hard on that. I'll see it in a nicer way. Ban all fruit juice now. You go to city council, ban all fruit juice, ban all fruit juice. And then you're like, damn. Social Justice Warders got really chated away this time. All right. So real talk, just kidding. Fruit juice is tasty and totally cool to drink. On many occasions, I just want to tell you guys that it has some downsides I want. You to think about. I know fitness ruins everything. You can't even fucking have a glass of orange juice on a fucking plain landing in your own plane until your own airport, into your own city. In London, think about that. Without the stupid RP doctor might crap, but everything's bad for you. It's not that bad, but check this out. First fruit juice is very high calorie, but it's not filling. No one's like, oh man, I'm super hungry. Like, hey, here's a third can of orange juice. Oh, thank God, that really took the edge off. What? Okay, thanks, great. When do we eat actual food? Okay, problem. Got it. Not filling. So if we are eating to try to control our calories, because we have trouble maintaining, because we have a history of being heavier now or later, or we're in a fat loss phase, trying to clean up the diet to lose some fat, lose some weight, choose just doesn't have that bang for the buck of how filling it is versus how many calories. What does have the bang for the buck is actual fresh fruit. It's all truffilling. You know, try this yourself. How many peaches can you eat in a sitting? I'm telling you, like, I'm done. Five, six, eight. It's ridiculous. Like, how much sugar enhanced peach juice sounds fucking good. Can you drink in a sitting? I don't know, like a thousand calories worth. This is the being as the part that's the most problem. So fruit is filling. It squashes hunger. It has fiber also. Which is good for you in a bunch of other ways. So fruit juices are like the fun tasting part of fruit, but without most of the benefits, which kind of blows. Now, if you say, look, hey, Dr. Mike, let's shut up for a second. Hear me out. I like how fruit juice tastes because I like sweet tasting things, and I like to drink sweet things with my salty things. Totally cool, but consider diet drinks and diet sodas. Trinks designed with artificial sweeteners can squash that sweet tooth. And then you can take the calories that you didn't eat from the orange juice that you didn't drink. And put those daily calories into something that will actually be filling and tasty. Because I'll tell you this. If you have orange juice or an orange flavored diet soda, both of those get you that orangey taste, and they get you the sweet tooth and they get you the hydration. Except, one of them is like 160 calories less than the other. You have a few of those drinks per day. You're up to 500 calories of like stuff you could just eat in food, which is more filling and honestly more fun. They say, hold on a sec. Or is your just plenty of fun to drink? I love it. Yes, but you've got the free fun from that diet orange soda. You already got the fun super fruity taste with sugar and everything. Sugar, the sweet taste. And now you're just like doubling the fun in other foods that are also more filling. Have a fucking cookie. You could have a free cookie if you just take the orange juice out, replace the shit with that. Real talk. That's the real deal. Now, all that being said fruit juice is totally fine. You can feed it to your kids. You can drink it yourself. But especially if you want to be leaner, have an easier time maintaining or enjoy more whole mouth feel food more, but pay no cost with the calories, consider reducing a replacing or intake of fruit juice and either drinking more other stuff like water or carbonated beverages, or diet sodas and other drinks that just don't have any of the calories, but giving that sweet fruity taste that fruit juice typically does. Give it some thought. Let me know what you think in the comments below. Did I go finally go one step too far in this video about to get canceled? And by the way, we have a member section for more science stuff if you're interested. That's an link below. We have a team full-round forum where I talk like this. And I answer questions directly and I say politically and correct things. You won't go red on me and get me canceled in there somehow. So go join the team for on forum if you're up to that sort of thing. We have tons of other benefits as well. That's the link in the description. Otherwise, like, subscribe, comment, swipe left, swipe right. I don't really care which way you swipe because you don't understand your voice, swim in in that shit. See you next time.

One more Marvin, let's go. I wasn't forced to many, many, many, many. And in down slow, down slow, down slow. What up, RPG YouTube? I'm here with Marvin, my client from Hong Kong. Today we are going to be doing a barbell only, lateral delts, and bicep session. Trying to bring you guys some limited equipment sessions that we're doing for the YouTube channel. So today is going to be one that you can really fry your lateral delts, and your bicep swith, just with the barbell. It's going to be a lot of fun, fun, I say, insert Marvin's agonizing face here. And yeah, we're going to hop to bicep's first lateral delts after that, and then Marvin's and doom, your pain, your pain, it's coming. The agity. Let's get it. Bicep's up real quick. Bicep's up real quick. You've seen it a million times on YouTube channel, probably on Instagram social media, whatever. The bicep has helped. And glino-humor-old joint action, including forward flexion. This is literally shortening your bicep more. So when you see people in the internet talking about how you need to keep your elbows back, you need to stay here at 90 degrees. It's all based on people thinking that force production is the only thing that matters, to satient-vintagent position to training, don't matter, etc. When you combine the action to that forward flexion to the go on, you can more joint, and you create a little bit of tension here, in-world on the bicep. You are shortening the hell out of this head of your bicep. And you are not taking any tension off at the top. I understand what people are saying when I say tension off of the bicep, if you go like this, because their elbows are here. It's hard for me to contract my bicep too. The second you have that forward flexion at the glino-humor-old joint, and you're pushing your elbows in, you're contracting the hell out of your bicep. So that just limits the load you can use. Notice she was really curling super well before I gave him a couple of cues, and then how hard it looked for him to do that. People don't like to limit the load on the exercise. When you curl with your elbows at your side, had 90 degrees, it's easy as fuck to use like 90 degrees. To use like 95 pounds, 135 pounds, or something like me. But I don't give a shit about the weight on the bar, and you guys really shouldn't either. We want a good stimulus to the bicep who want full-moving unit recruitment to the biceps, and that's done by going through a full range of motion, including all actions of that particular muscle, including, again, for flexion at the glino-humor-old joint. This is okay. It's shortens the bicep fully. So hopefully you can get that into people's heads. It's definitely fine to do this. If you find it discomfort in that movement anywhere, at the shoulder, at the bicep, maybe you have some nagging elbow injuries, fuck yeah, do a drag curl for elbow injuries. I noticed when I keep my elbows back a little more, it helps quite a bit. If you just want to add it in for variation purposes, totally fine too. But doing a curl like this, there's no dogma, you don't have to, but don't shit talk it. It's definitely fine, and it actually recruits a lot more motorion to three biceps. I think that's where all this comes from. It's hard. When things are hard, we notice more than likely. There are a shit load of excuses, and you can come up with many scientific excuses, or as many brooks, excuses as you want. But I just, I know, it's hard. You want to find an excuse to load up a bunch of weight. So you do. You try to find whatever excuse you can. So just keep that in mind with the cypavicep curl. You don't have to do it, but try it out, man. It's really good. It's really fun, and it hurts really bad. Like you can't have noticed, watch from Marvin does this. That was it. That was in. Now slow with your elbows in. Down slow with your elbows in. And right back up. A little stretch, Marvin. A little stretch, Marvin. And up. That was in. That was in. That was in. That was in. That was in. So again, notice, these are absolutely fucking painful. So we're a lot of people tend to do what the East Center on these. And this is why people also say that tension gets taken away from the bicep. It's a loser shoulders forward. You want to keep those shoulders back so you can really stretch the bicep. So when it gets hard, you're going to notice he's going to want to do this because it's literally taking tension away. You move like this. You are taking to something bicep. You want them here. Which is why it's very odd to me that people say when they're here, you're taking tension off because it's actually more. So when you move your shoulder forward, that's less tension. So he's going to be going like this to try to get away from that pain. But I really want him to slow or slowly from right here to stretch the hell out of that bicep. And then instead of resting a long time down here and swinging, I'm trying to get him to, I'm killing him to really come right back up. Once you get that full stretch, full stretch, right back up with the Melva's in. It sucks. And it's true, quarter-quick constant tension. Especially here at the top and especially here at the bottom with your shoulder back. It's pump ready. Yeah. Marvin, this might be a little heavy, but we're going to use this weight again. Okay. Well, you might get like six reps on your first, you know, five minutes a day. So it's like 15 kg. Mm-hmm. But look like shit now. I like this. So like this. And almost four, how was four? And like this. Oh, that was not a four-up. All the way down, Marvin. Over you down. Oh, that was nice. Yep, up, up. Which you're finding is almost into. That's all. Up. Yes, exactly. Do you? That's all. Got it. Up. Got it. Oh. That's all. Let's get one more just like that. Up. That was all. That's all. That's all. Rack. Whoa. Shake it out. Shake it out. Shake it out. I'll take some weight off. Hold on. I'll see you there. See you there. I'll go down front. I'll make full stretch, Marvin. No bullshit, Abs. Full stretch. All right, yeah. Back up. I'll go in. I'll go in. I'll go in. I'll go in. I'll go in. Oh. Oh. Oh, I'll go in. Yeah. I'll go in. Oh. Yep. Good, Marvin. I'll go in. Good. I'll go in. I'll go in. I'll go in. All right. All right. Squeeze. I'll go in. Pass. Squeeze. Squeeze. And then then then then then then then then down. So. You'll put it down for a couple seconds. Huh. Big out. Shake it out. So you're up. Two more. You've got to go away. Two more. Okay. Straight. Straight on first. Straight on first. Up. Down. So. Ableton. Keep. Ableton. Okay. In. In. In. Down slow, down slow, down slow. Good. Wow. Let's go. It's kind of turning to do a try, Zaff. So I did say two by set exercises. We're already at the bar as you can see. So we're probably going to do an exercise that we've never done on the channel before. And to be honest, this is something that like, if you're someone with nagging elbow injuries, how I talked about earlier, a drag curl isn't that bad of an exercise. Anytime that I've had some sort of tend to elbow going on, that become a lie, I've definitely taken more of a to the side approach or behind the body approach with a drag curl. I'm going to have Marvin do a couple sets of 15 to 20 drag curls, getting the bar as high as possible and that drag curl. There's maybe a couple things that we can give you technique wise and you've never heard about a drag curl to hit the bicep a little better. So we might put the tins back on and I'm going to have them more up at the bar and we'll see how you like these. So two sets of 15 to 20 for drag curls with very short rest periods. Now back to the normal technique, I want you to use just your arms. So curl. Yep, just your arms. Go ahead. I'll use squeeze. I wasn't. Oh, good. Yep, squeeze hard. Downslow. All the down, squeeze hard. That was in. Squeeze hard, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, squeeze, up. Come on. Downslow. Let's go Marvin. Good. Downslow. Up. Squeeze. Squeeze. Squeeze. Squeeze. Squeeze. Keep going. Now resist. Resist me. Downslow. Downslow. Downslow. Downslow. Downslow. Oh, yeah. Oh, try. I tried. I tried. Can you imagine week four like this? You bet lost. Oh yeah. People always say, I don't need the load. I say, you don't train hard enough. How could you not? How could you not have the load? Every week four. The body usually deludes for them. So what happens to those types of people? It's like, I don't need the load. And then they're lower bodies injured. They have a bad knee or something. So then they take their leg training volume goes down. Or they're still trying to train really fucking hard to upper body. And then something happens to the upper body when they're leg heals. And then they're training hard for the lower body. So they have like these weird intermittent deludes periodically. Because their bodies, like, you're fucking deluding. So. Okay. That's a bad delo though. Exactly. A pain-pillity low. Yeah. Autoregulated delodes are much better. Yes. So the way I like to structure PM sessions, which is what this is for Marvin, is two in one. Because I train my ladder with lots of biceps, three to four times a week. So today we're doing two bicep exercises, or even who was just one bicep exercise, but it was top and down sets. I count that as two different exercises technically. So we did the biceps. Now we're going to do one intensity technique for his lateral delts. I'm going to put them through a very short, rest period, giant set for a slightly bit forward upright rose. I'm going to really smash the lateral delts. Yes. The upper rose is going to hit the lateral delts very well. And probably going to do about 50 reps. So let's warm it up and see what you're going to use. All right. If at the hips slightly lean forward like this, I'll pull the elbows full high. His highest posture, Marvin. I want you to really get it up there. Look here. Yeah. 50 reps of this shed. You feel ready? Yeah, I'm ready. You feel like your forearms are bicep. We'll be the limiting factor in the sound. Tid it there for your personal trainer's future clients. A couple of factors to know if they're ready for the next exercise or the next set. I'm asking him about assisting musculature. So I said, do you think that your forearms or your biceps will be the limiting factor in their set over your lateral delts? And he said, no, he said, I feel pretty good to go. I think my lateral delts will take most of the stimulus. That's good. I'm just going to get to the top. Don't lean forward too much right there. Good. Just slightly lean forward. Good. Good. Good. Right. Good. That 14, please. 14. When I come to ask one. Good. Good. Breck. No. It's 28. 21. 21. Oh, shit. You can stand upright. Leading forward. Up right, real? Yeah. Limits the load. Yeah. Because it's a lot harder in a more disadvantage position. Pretty good for lateral delts. Up right goes. Our little easier and the more mechanically advantageous. Just go to the regular upright row. Okay. So we can finish off the 50 reps. So let's go. I don't think you're getting 50. We keep doing it forward. I'm just going to use your hips. One more. Good. Rack. Ah, fuck. It's getting harder and harder. So actually Marvin, let's give us a minute you can here. One of the tank. And then we're just going to use your arms. Okay. Let's finish it off. All right. Cool. Up. Come on. Up. High. One, two more. One, two more. Let's go. Don't swing. Don't swing. Don't swing. Try to use the delts here. That's good. Good. Put it down. Arms. Arms on. Yep. Five more. One. Two beautiful easy and tricks man. Good stuff. Three. Four. Last one. We're going to use the top one. You're going to hold and squeeze. Hold. Squeeze. Elbows high. Elbows high. Elbows high. Squeeze. Squeeze. Hard. Squeeze. Mark. Good. Wow. Ah. Fuck. Good job man. Thank you man. How was that? Painful. You got nice pumping your delts? Oh yeah. Good shit. I mean, I wish my delts always this pump on time. Oh wow. Well people. There you have it. Hopefully I gave you some good tips tricks. Coaching cues. All that fun shit. And maybe we'll make a believer out of you yet that these exercises are really good for training the biceps and the lateral delts. Marlin, how do you feel? I feel awful. We can't stop touching this also. I see. That's a good. Awesome. Awesome and awful. Yes. That's kind of how I described it yesterday. Ah. Yes. Yeah. Good man. You did a great job. Thank you. Lots of effort. Thank you coach. Absolutely man. Thank you.

home home home home home home home home home home home home home home easy should I ever had to do my life hey guys it's me Dr. Mike this large man here with the salmon on Jared Feather, ISBV Pro. We have a problem, and you have a similar problem. You want big delts. Desperately more than anything in your life, obviously, and you only have one barbell and a couple of weights laying around, how could you possibly do a holistic, total delt, smash, grab, destroy, pillage, plunder, pause? You know like when the empire comes to new plan, the galactic empire from Starworth. 20 years later, they finished that issue off, and none left. That type of shit to your delts. Is that even possible? What do you think, Jared? You a long time service of the empire. Now without optimal exercises in correct joiningals. Wow. Spoken like someone who wants the galaxy to be crushed with an iron fist. Let's get started. All right, folks. So a super, super common problem in shoulder training is that people like to have the ego's drive, their shoulder training instead of specifically look at what the aesthetics of shoulder training really demand. Almost all of the work you'll ever need for front delts, but a small part can come from pressing for your chest and triceps. So a lot of people will start with dumbbell presses and then go to machine presses and undo some laterals and do the male and rear delts shit afterwards. We're gonna do the opposite because the front delts on people are almost never the lagging problem. Big rear delts? Man, tell me, how was it to be, once? And I had super front rear delts. And as a girl walks by the table, I was there with my wife. And she's like, she looks in my wife, she's like, I don't need to do this, but like, can I please have some kind of physical relations with your husbands? And I was like, oh, oh, and she's like rear delts only the rest of him is disgusting. In any case, I almost got laid, which is sweet, and you could get full on-lade if you have big ass rear delts, huge side delts, and look, you already have pretty big front delts for how big the other delts on your body are in most cases. So because we're gonna do the most cases, Jared's first exercise is going to be a superset of root over, barbell face pulls, really rear delts specific, two uprivers where the rear delts are involved, so it's the rear and side delts hit first. Then we move on to another exercise that might hit a little bit of the side and front delts, and then our last exercise for this workout is gonna be something that ties it all in together in his brutal, and it doesn't mean you go heavy, but goddamn, it's gonna feel terrible for your delts in the best way, let's do it. What the fuck? I like this one. You're a fucking idiot. Did you really fucking count five? No, bro, I know you hate that shit. Eight. Just don't count. Okay, I'm fucking idiot. Good stuff, let's go. There you go. Good stable upper body. Beautiful. Good. Good, two more, you got this. 100% yes, one more, slow and down on the way down. So, yep. Yep. Fuck, yes, slow, good shit. Don't have fucking training of runners like him. I kind of, three. Yeah. That's successfully have a delt pump already. Yeah, it was just starting. I'm very sensitive to the shit. Why? Come off contest, Richard. Yeah, so you're very sensitive to the carbohydrates. Oh, yeah. And you're getting big pumps, which is good, which means you're probably anabolic. Technique stuff for the bent over face pulls. So it's a face pull of the barbell. You're gonna want to bend over, keep a tight core, none of this like rounding back shit, and sharing your hands. You're gonna get to like a 45 degree angle, and really it's kind of dealers choice, how low you go. You're not gonna pull the bar into your neck. You could do that, but it ends up being kind of weird for the shoulders. It seems like a more comfy bar path is usually when people come up and try to almost get past their nose and kind of touch their brow ridges. Now, you might not be able to get that high, but it's kind of this arching motion, and then it's putting a lot of side delts and a shitload of rear belt. And what you're gonna do is stand right back up. Now, he's in a mechanic with more advantageous position, and he's gonna stay a little bit slightly bent road. To again bias that side delts and even a little bit of rear dot more, and then knock out some upright rows. Usually the same weight can get you a decent amount of reps in that first set, and then a super set it can get. She was five to 10 in most cases, sometimes a little more, which makes it an awesome super set. You don't want a weight that you do for 15 times here, and you come up here and do it once, and you're all right, that's it. So as misapplied, Jared will take the rest, three sets, sets a 10 to 20 reps, maybe a little bit higher as a recommendation here. If you go a lot heavier in here, and then's just being kind of weird for the shoulder joints. You go home, you cry, your mom will come up and be like, you listen, it's okay, it's all right. And you be like, mom, you're the best, and she's like, no worries, man. All right, I'm like, shut the fuck. Already shut the fuck up. Mike, you trained the least hard out of all of us. And you're always like, come on now, no rest, three seconds, let's go. We're gonna go tough guys. So I got to talk a big game because I ain't shit. Fuck. When people are family, they fight in a different way. You guys know Jared is my biological son, of course. Last set, equivalent set, that's good. I don't know why the last set has to be the best set, I don't think so. Maybe because they know they're taking the break down, because they're gonna say, the worst set. Oh yeah. Oh my god. Oh god. Three more. Yep. She was a master. You're baked out. Oh. Why is it our so bad? Whenever you feel rested, Jared. I think the bar is plenty. Yeah, I know shit. So just let me know if that's correct. Yeah, let's cover that. So front raises, if you do it with an easy bar, a neutral grip or underhand, and you do them like this, it's almost all front notes. But if you take an overhand grip and you come up and all the way down, it actually tends to be a considerant of front notes, but also a bunch of side notes. So that's what we're gonna do next. Jared's gonna do straight sides. His delts are already pretty cooked. This is the super wrong version of front raises. We go sort of all the way up and all the way down. It's not bad for your shoulders. Unless you have female genitalia for shoulders. Not allowed to say anything more offensive than that. Today's political climate. So, but real talk, if it feels bad for shoulders, don't do it, just stop at a certain point. And you'll notice that Jared's only gonna be doing the bar, which is really all it takes at this point, isn't really tough exercise, because the lever just so, so long. So, probably three straight sets here, and then we'll get into our last exercise after that. Yeah. Yeah. Slow. Yes. Oh, boy. Bad hit the spot. Yeah. Twelve is hard. A little tip here on the front raises. This part's pretty easy. This part's pretty easy. The part you really wanna demonstrate a lot of eccentric control on is the part from here to here. And that's where you're gonna see most people have more bar speed. It's the opposite of what they need to do. Stable bar speed up. Slow. Stable. Up. Slow. Control. Faces. Expressions. Thoughts. Up. Slow. Yes. Slow. Yes. Two more. Control. Warchus. Control. Ah, yeah. Fuck, yeah. One more. Big control. Yes. Oh. They can't find a comfortable position for my fucking lateral delterina. Yeah, but biomechanically. You're thinking about biomechanics? Just think about it. Fuck. Alright, folks. Last exercise coming up. This is going to be upright rows. But different than before, much less low just the bar. My due Jared is like, 230. Yeah. 235, 511. I have to be classic physique pro. Delt's all over the map. He's using 45 pounds. So adjust accordingly. My O-reps here. Each set is going to be just one my O-reps pause. Jared is going to do a bunch of reps of upright rows. Pause for a second. Hold the bar in his hands. Wait about five seconds and then do as many as he can, which might be two or three. Here's the trick though. He is going to be going to just up above his head. Pauzing for a split second and then slowly controlling the descent. Coming up quick, pausing, slowly controlling. This type of upright row is totally fine for most people's shoulders. If it's not good for yours, don't do it. No big deal. Just do the regular ones or anything else you want to do. But it will cook your ass literally. More, more you got this. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Fuck yeah. Blow it. Yes. Yeah, this is the uncomfortable hold you should. Side belts, front belt. Side belt. Side belt. I can't fucking. Oh, you're cramping. Holy shit. Okay. Registration arms up and pretend you have a bar. Go, go, go, go. Pause at the top and back up. And back up. Good. And back up. Go, hold. And one more. And back up. Hold five seconds. One, two, three, four, and five. Oh. Yeah. Ooh, that was cool. Oh, I got a f***. I got a f***. I could only go my index finger. One more set. We had to step in and make sure that my upright part of that worked out. Jera's forearm cramped. Couldn't lift a bar. And I use my quick wits. Anyway, to make sure that somehow we can get that shit going. And I realize he doesn't need his forearm to just lift his arms. And I also know that after a big set like this, just lifting arms is insanely difficult. So with that shit, managing the cadence. And not letting him get to a more mechanically advantageous position down here. Captain up here, shit is brutal. Yes. Borgis. Who's think? Don't wanna surround? Let's bar down. So, can you have dumbbells collateral raise? 45 degrees. Off. Yep. Yes. And slow. And up. Yep. Up. So, as you touch, we go up. Yes. Three more, Jera. Up. One. Up. Two. Last one. Up. Hold. Hold. Hold. Hold. Hold. Hold. Hold. Hold. Hold. Easy shit, I ever had to do my life. And relax. Ah. Man. Fuck. This may be the biggest your delts have ever been. And maybe. That's ridiculous. Let me sum up this workout. Jera's delts bumped into him at the bar like this. And Jera's like, suck you down. You don't want this. So the delts like, fuck you bro. I stay strapped. And as soon as I went to reach for that. Yeah. Jera did some like John Wich... And everyone in the bar's like, he's already dead. And he's like. Yeah. That's a. Let's close that I unloaded a wall of he's on the ground. Or that last exercise. Because I was already fucking toast. Yeah. You're going to jail for a long time. That's okay. I'll be. I'll be. Yeah. Jail training. Do you guys want to see a jail training video? Awesome. Jail program. Like the Talcia. Marcos has been on us forever to about. That's shit. Yeah. He's like, who would you jail for? Shut up Marcos. The barbell one is nice. This was a good day. All right. If we do a jail workout, nerd alert. It's gonna be star wars universe, alien super jail. We like the droop comes out of the wall. That kind of shit. Let us know if you want that shit. Jared, good job today. Thanks for watching. If I carry it, please. It's failing. Be hurt through your delts. And failure and pain is what this whole industry is about. See you guys next week. Couldn't hear it. No, that's prevent. There are other senses. You should have farted into my mic. I could have been down. Ah, you're right. I would have been awfully close to your face.

It's me, Dr. Mike, four Renaissance periodization, and you asked for it, it's here, the Banch-Pretis Guide for a hypertrophy, a perfetry, a perfurfer tourver. Some people do really struggle with that word, and I don't struggle with words, I'm quite verbose, but I do struggle with. Definitely my sexuality, I've just pointed out. I'm addicted to adult films, I just picked up smoking as a habit. This is really hard to say, I'll just say it. I have a nasty habit of picking up truck drivers and truck stops, and like you guys never see that where the hyenas get like one of the deer limbs off, and they just ate of them or pulling it, that's me at a truck stop. I'm the deer limb. It feels so good. They don't tell you that, in sex-adclass, when they're like respect, your body, but what have just respect is the thing that turns me on. I want to be a piece of meat in the wind. In any case, why did you click on this video? It was to see bench press tips to make sure your peck scroll better. Let's get the f*** into that. And I should just never say anything outside of exercise ever again. Tip number one, here we go. Okay, so the first tip in the bench press to hit the peck's better is to arch the back, not a tongue, just a little bit works. Take your scapule and retract them. What that does is it brings your sternal peck into play and puts you in a real power position for the chest. It also, I retracting the scapule, pre-stretch is the chest. So that when you're down here, it's way less shoulders, way less shoulder joint. And pre-stretch packs means your chance for muscle growth induction is just much higher. A lot of people who bench flat back and with their shoulders flared out, that's like the football program and high school bench press. They're the ones that I'm like, yeah, I'm going to use the bench for my shoulders. Got the better of me. I was a competitive power for four years. Don't worry, don't bother Googling it. I was never very strong. And I benched four my entire power of the career and other than in high school before I was a power lifter before I learned how to arch her contract, I've never one single time hurt my shoulder in the bench press ever. So how you would do this in real life is you would get down onto a bench, which I will demonstrate gladly for YouTube. First thing you do is you walk your scapulae towards your butt, this arch is your back. Again, you don't have to crazy arch just a little bit. And as you walk them back, you also walk them in. It's going to take a couple of walks, really tuck them in there. And then the grab the bar notice the bar is going to lay pretty low. If you reach up, you lose all that shit. So you should set the bar low, grab the shit. Hopefully you can get a spot in a help you. Unwrack, push the bar over to the position. And then sometimes, especially if you're doing higher repetitions, what you want to do is kind of tuck it again a little bit to reinforce that pattern. As the bar descends, you keep your chest stuck way in the air and you press. And while I'm down here, let's just knock out tip number two. So tip one is archer retract. Tip number two is to take a pause of the chest. Especially with slow, eccentric control, a pause of the chest to make sure you really milk out the unbelievable amount of tension through your stretched pecks. That will help you grow a ton. So you hear your chest to stuck out. You bring down just to around your nipple line. Pause, not caving over. Chest still big. Everything stretched. This will not feel good. This pause does not feel like a rest. It feels like holy shit. My pecks are going to blow up. And then press to a full lock out. Chest up and pause. And press as you do more reps, you'll get tempted to collapse and cave over. So remind yourself to keep your scapulate tucked. Reach your pecks out to touch and press. Reach your pecks out to touch, pause and press. Just like that. Next tip, hand position. What you want out of your hand position is for your wrists to feel good. You're elbows to feel good. You're shoulders to feel good. And also for you to get a nice, gnarly deep stretch in your pecks and feel the movement in your pecks. Some people, based on their build, will have a relatively close grip. And that's how they'll feel chest the most. Some people can even do a very wide grip and that's how they feel chest the most. Other people, if they try wide grip, it just feels like it's ton of pain in their shoulders and nothing else is happening. So with your grip, play around to find out what's best for you. Start with just outside of shoulder width grip. Try one fist length out. You guys are used to fist length, I'm sure. And the fist length is like here and here, now we're out here. Fist length in is here. Another fist length in is here. So on and so forth. Play with fist lengths at first. If one of them feels almost good, you're like, you know, this feels great. This feels a little bit worse, but this doesn't feel ideal. Play with finger lengths instead. Between those two, you will find a really, really good pressing point. The way you can tell, again, is all of your joints feel great. And your pecs are getting torn to shreds at the bottom. That's how you find hand grip. And again, there's not one right answer. It could be multiple answers. You can say, well, I like the wide variant. That feels great. It also feels a different kind of great to go a little closer. No wrong answers. Just make sure you're paying attention to those cues. If you're a joints feel good, and your muscles feel like they're getting really, really fucked up. What to do about elbow flare? Couple things to say about this. Some people will bench press D-18 style, where they take a higher position on the chest, and the left their elbows come up. They feel a huge stretch in the pecs. Their shoulders feel amazing. No problem. Correct answer. Other folks will touch a little bit below the nibble line, actually, on their abdomen. And they will tuck their elbows on the way down. You'll see this from shirted pressing back in the day from a quick powerlifting. If that is what hits your pecs the most, and it makes your elbows and shoulders feel nice and comfy and safe, beautiful. Right answer. What I don't want you guys to get caught up in is people on the internet who say this is bad because biomechanics. I don't know what the fuck they say that because if you go out here, notice my pecs are getting more stretched as I pull out. There's lots of people saying you've got to tuck in the elbows to do more chest. That's fucking backwards. If you tuck in the elbows, the line of pull aligns better with the front delts, and it's more triceps. Front delts and triceps is more like tucked. The wider you go, all the way up till here is more pecs. However, not everyone can handle wide and it can fuck your shoulders up. My best recommendation for you is this. Don't worry about where your elbows go at all. Set up a comfortable hand position archer retract. Focus on your chest. Your elbows will naturally position themselves to a point that is easy on your joints and hard on your muscles. If it takes a little bit of finagling, by all means do it. If you do naturally, you're like, I don't know, my shoulders feel kind of mad. Try a little bit more in, just a tad. All shoulders feel great. Even more in. Shored us feel amazing, but I don't feel much less much anymore. Boom, you found it. That's the right answer. If you want to flare, no problem at all as long as you gently pause, there is a very minimum risk of injury. Yes, if you're crashing down with a trillion pounds and you're not pausing and you're using sets of four or five, benching like this will fuck you up. But then benching like this will probably fuck you up too, just in a different way. Be measured, feel your body out, start with a natural elbow angle, adjust a little bit, see how it affects your shoulders, your elbows, etc. Back 10 years ago, when I was, geez, already on my way to getting a PhD, it was an a PhD program. I thought there was correct technique that was basically identical for everyone. And then I fucking took one of my balls out and hit it with a hammer to punish myself because that was fucking stupid because everyone's built a little bit differently. Some people are built a lot differently. Different ratios of lower and upper arm lengths, different interracromial widths, different shapes, subtly of packs and shoulders and triceps, different slight variations and design of the shoulder joint. So that if you tell people everyone should do this or everyone should do this, it's out of the gate fucking wrong. It could have a grain of truth, it could have a lot of truth to it, but don't just be like, oh, this is optimal. I'm my shoulder shirt. I don't feel my chest, but this is optimal because of my mechanics. Fuck all that noise. Start with the basics, play around with some variations. Your body will find the right thing for you to do. And if it doesn't, because your body's just fucking stupid and wrong, I'm kidding, I hope. All right, last tip coming up. Last tip for the day, forgetting a lot out of chest growth in the bench press is to make sure that you are controlling the eccentric. Yes, we'll bring you no love in how much you can bench for reps, but so if you want to have a hypertrophy, you don't care. Slow eccentric does not mean five seconds or ten, but it means you don't dump the bar on your chest. It means that you take a few seconds to really lower and while you're lowering, I want you to think of reaching your chest up while having the fibers pulled apart. That sensation of the fibers pulling apart as you reach up is not something you should try to avoid. And I know that sounds weird because normally in real life, if your shit is getting pulled apart, you're like, I shouldn't be here. I should get out. I should rush this. Remember, you're here to get them pulled apart because that's what stimulates growth. So you're going to reach up the whole time and your chest is going to be pulled apart, pause gently, press. Big reach, big chest slow and up. And as you reach close to failure, don't start going faster. It is not a rep counting competition. From week one in your Mazda cycle, big chest slow, gentle touch and up on the way up, go fast, fuck you up, produce some force. Slow, lock, slow, lock control, lock notices, that super slow. This is a perfectly fine cadence and we'll fuck your chest into some planet of the solar system. Now, which planet? Marth. No. Neptune? No, that was a production company back in the early 2000. What's up for round? Uranus. I'm sure you have one. Folks, thanks for tuning inside for all the derogatory speech earlier. I don't know what happened to me. We'll see you next time for more exercise instructions. Learning about exercise science, sports science and more of my pro versions. See you next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Periodization. And today's video is about how to build your training program for hypertrophy. It is a video number. Oh, let me look number seven. Yeah, we are. Hey Scott, the video guy. I knew his video seven. I was just testing you bro. Don't mess with my audio. I'm out here. I'm a Hollywood baby. In any case, before I was so rudely interrupted, we're going to chat about how to do technique properly. And if something is bothering your joints, how to alter it. It's a big part of programming. Because you're going to guess as an exercise is good for you. And then you realize, wrote it down, programmed it into your hypertrophy app. And it just doesn't do what you want it to do, and it's hurting your joints. You have options. And we're going to talk about all of them, and how the app enables you to exercise those options. So this is all part of the series, by the way, every Tuesday for a while back. A little while into the future. We're going to be doing the How to Build Your Program series. And even though you don't have to use it, we do have a hypertrophy app now. It's out for release. And it's early sweet. I would recommend you use it because of two things. Thing number one is it's probably the best hypertrophy app that's ever been in aid. I've used a bunch of them. They're all pretty cool. But this one's the best because I designed it. And I have the brains, I think. So my mom tells me I'm pretty smart. Number two reason is that it gives me money, which is nice for me. So it's high on highly incentivized to say, please get the app because Lamborghini's are awesome. And they're unfortunately not free. Though I have continued to petition my local high-risk person for Lamborghini subsidy. He's not answering the letters. So it's quite sad. So in any case, pro tip on the purchasing thing. Buy it for a month. It's like 35 bucks a month or something. Yeah, that's like, you know, pretty expensive for an app. But one that you use every single day for your training. It starts to be pretty good deal. But I am going to even mirror deal. If you like it for a month and you're going to keep it and you're going to say, well, like, this is like how I'm going to train for now. That's what I'm doing. Just by the year, because the year is discounted like an insane amount off of the monthly. So over month or a month if you buy the year, you're just going to save noodles and money. In any case, that's my marketing pitch. Let's get into technique for the joints. The right technique has to stimulate the muscle while. But if the right technique, quote unquote, is hurting your joints, making them feel really uncomfortable and creaky and hurting them over time, that's no good. How do you want your joints to feel to make sure that it's correct? First, you want them to feel stable. Weird, wiggly joint feeling, not good, can it cause acute injury, some point, when you mess up and your joint goes this way and the rest of you goes that. Stable. Comfortable. And I don't mean like, oh, this is the greatest things ever happened to my knee. Is I mean not actively painful or actively a feeling of incredible weakness? So you don't want insane joint weak feeling. You don't want incredible pain in your joints. And you don't want instability. As long as you have that, you have almost all of the criteria for a good exercise for your joints except one and that's time. Some exercises can feel totally fine on your joints in one session and maybe even in two, but sessions three, four, five through the weeks that you're training, they can start to really start to hurt. And most good exercises just don't do this or over any time scale that's relevant. And it would take year or two for you to just do this, and exercise over and over, which is kind of stupid anyway for you joints to start hurting and most good exercises properly done technique. But some exercises did just not yelling with you. And then your joints hurt after session two and here's the real kicker. You got to start getting concerned if they're hurt even more at session three. You come in and you start warming up session three like, bro, this is an important way down the bar. My knees hurt. What the hell is going on? That's not a great sign. You have something to do about it. The first thing you have to do about it is to make sure you're doing the technique correctly. And the way we do this in my purge, if you happen to say we have a bar all about row, you got these little icons on the top right here. You got a little icon it looks like YouTube. You click on it and look, it's Jared rather demonstrating a bar all about row. And if you put headphones on, it's going to be me talking in the background going through the technique. Every single exercise that we've indexed has a video to go with it. Over the time that the app is out, we're going to refill and film extra exercises that you guys suggest to us. By the way, there's a really easy way to just if you add your custom exercises, we can see we can tabulate the custom exercises everyone else is adding and it's easy for us to every several months go and film those, get them in, and then they have videos. So there are video instructions for pretty much every single exercise in the app. So if you're like, yeah, that rows are hurting my elbows. How am I doing? You click on there. You see the video? Oh crap, I'm pulling up like this. It's supposed to be down. Got it. You fix it and then it's good to go. So you can always fix your technique. Another point is the way that Jared is demonstrating the technique is one way, which is cool. But there are slight alterations you can make that make you better. So gripping the bar here for close grips can be great for your triceps but hurt your elbows. If you just move your grip out by one finger length, it can completely fix any elbow pain and feel almost as good or as good or even better for your triceps muscle as far stimulus is concerned. So when you see an exercise technique demo, make sure you realize that small alterations of which way you point your feet. How far apart your feet are, which way you point your hands, how far apart your hands are. Where you're moving exactly do you move to the clavicle with a pull down to move to the upper chest. Those are not right or wrong answers. There's a spectrum of totally awesome options. And within that spectrum, you have to find by experimenting which one hurts your joints the least. So if you're running into some joint pain, don't just abandon the exercise and be like, well, like, shit. This isn't working for me. I've done the technique. It doesn't work. It still hurts my joints. Try to play with some grip with foot positions, where are you pulling and pushing the bar to and from. And just one tiny little fix can fix it all. Let me give you an example in the skull crusher. For me, I used to do skull crusher, and then I stopped because it would just nuke my elbows every single time. And that's when I would start the skull crusher. My first movement would be to have my fist go back towards my head back over this way. I was like, skull crusher's just don't work for me. They just fuck my elbows up. I hate them. I wrote a letter to my congressman. The skull crusher is hurting my elbows. Again, no response. Then just on sheer dumb luck, I was playing around. And what I did was I broke it my elbow first towards the hip. So the first movement wasn't me pushing my fist back. It was me pushing my elbow down. Once I got that break, then I would push the fist back. No elbow pain ever again. And I'm skull crushing look because Zillion pounds my triceps that big as they've ever been. Small technique. I know it sounds fucking wacky. I know it sounds like some Joel Seedman bullshit. But one little tiny technique fix can actually make your joints heal amazing versus an almost externally the exact and exercise if you look at somebody else doing. This takes a bit of sort of insight into your into how you feel, but it can help you along. So don't just demand an exercise. Now, the app does all cool all kinds of cool stuff with tracking your stimulus to fatigue ratio and it does this by assessing how your joints feel. So you don't just have to remember this kind of stuff. You can actually note it in the app and it'll ask you questions. For example, on barbell butt roll over here, we did. We're going to do two sets. We checked in the first one already. We checked in the second one. And it asks us pump and workload it all of stuff. We'll get to that in another video at the top. It's going to ask us a question about joint pain. And it asks how did you joints feel during the barbell butt roll? And you can say, oh, no pain. Because a legit like that's what it should be hopefully. You can say low pain like as little something there and nothing. I'm too scared of moderate pain and then a lot of pain. So you can click whichever one of these you want. I say no pain. Don't just push whatever crap here. We'll get that later. And boom, the app remembers your joint pain later. It will start to make exercise recommendations based on how much joint pain and stimulus you get out of an exercise. It will remember all of your entries forever. And so if you think man, should I do barbell butt rolls next month? Or should I do cable rows? I forgot which one works better for me. The app will remember which one works better for you. And if you click the drop now, it'll push up the bent row higher. Let's say the cable row higher, whichever one was better. And the other exercise gets pushed lower. So the best suggestion of what you should do next is something the app is going to keep track. Now, let's say your joint pain is awful. You're like, be this exercise sucks. I hate it. I want to replace it. What do you do? Because you already built your mesocycle. Do I have to go and rebuild a new meso? Nope. The answer is no. You go up here and you just go to replace exercise. And it says sets have already been performed. So you sure you want to replace it because it'll delete all that data. By the way, you can replace any other exercise that you haven't done yet. Let's see you're just warming up for it. You're replacing it. So you can do this anytime you want to ignore. And then it goes, okay, it's assuming it's back. So it's going to keep that for you. You could just make a new exercise in the top menu here if you wanted. But you're like, we're a barbell roast sucked. And I'm going to go to cable flexion row. And I'm going to repeat until the end of the mezzo because I'm done with barbell rows. They're toasting my elbows replace and voila, it's got cable flexion row right here replaced. And by the way, because this was a duplicate exercise from our last times discussion, barbell that roast stays here. And you can always change that if you want. So now we have a new exercise. Hey, this is good stuff. It works. Folks, that's it. Just make sure to remember this. Hi, purtrophy training is not a situation in which you want to continue a chronic escalating joint pain. I've seen this done at a bunch of gyms all the time. And it's terrible. Some old guys like it. And like Breast starts rapping as an easer. What you doing with the knee wrap there, buddy, you're going to knees you're going to hurt. I got to get through it. Like the, it shouldn't be hurting if your technique is right. If your loading is correct, if your minor technique adjustments are good, you're paying attention. And honestly, bro, if that doesn't fix it, stuff like you like pressing. There's a trillion other quad exercises you could be doing that shouldn't hurt your knee unless you're really old and really beat up like me and everything hurts. I'm kidding, it doesn't do not settle for joint pain. Don't let anyone tell you like, oh yeah, Scott Crusher's was fuck up your elbows, but you want big try subsets, what it takes. That's a whole bunch of bullshit. In any case, link in the description, give the app a download, pay any money, I need a Lamborghini. Next week, we are going to talk about how to interpret and rate and manage your pumps and your soreness with they tell you about growth response and how they app handles them as well. And it's the only app that does this as far as I know. See you guys next time.

So the big thing is here, ease into the doses and don't dose higher than you need. And if you're like at 1mg and you're just coasting, you know, and all I got, I don't feel hungry, I'm rocking my diet and losing 2 pounds a week. And anyone, and I'm gonna say something controversial here, including your doctor, says you need to go up to 1.5, don't. Hey folks, doctor Mike here for RP Strength. Today we are gonna talk about the best supplements and drugs, what? To get you shredded. Otherwise known as shreddy Kruger or shredder, the gentleman that taught the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, had a fight crime and he was a rat, an anthropomorphic gigantic rat. From Japan, folks keep up six supplements, plus drugs, total, made the list today, for things you should consider in your fat burning stack. And I said that wrong, you could mix and match these. Some of them you don't take together. I'll get into that a little bit. But one of them is a substance that people take a lot often. So I felt like I should include it, but I'll have some caveats about it, because they don't super recommend it. And some substances are missing because they're like a little bit too hardcore, or they do some stuff that is so much more than fat burning. So for example, growth hormones, not on this list, even though it's a potent fat burn, it does a little bit of other stuff for cost of cause of lean dollars. It's not very easy to get. It's often not legal to acquire. So it did make the list. The other one is DNP. It is a technically sort of an explosive, but what it does is it gets into your mitochondria. And there's a process by which when you burn food for energy, you get ATP out of it, which is the usable storage form of energy in the body, and you get some body heat. What DNP does is it makes you create less ATP for every amount of energy that you burn, and more of it a site from the office heat, which means you burn a crap load of calories doing nothing at all, but you're very hot. DNP is if you use it wrong, very risky. People have died from DNP. They've died from almost nothing else on this list. And so DNP is not something I would recommend to almost anyone. Also it makes you insanely tired, and it really screws up your training and everything like that. I have taken it before. It was kind of like, I don't know why I'm taking this. I get far better results without it. So that's going to be missing. But we do have, I think, three supplements. And yes, three supplements and then three drugs. Let's get to it. So supplement number one is Burberry. Burberrying basically does some MPK activation for you. And it also alters glucose levels to some extent, making your body rely a little bit more on stored fat for fuel. And I do mean a little bit more. We'll get to that in a second. Burberrying is administered orally. Scott, you like that? It administered orally volume five. Amazing, amazing video. And in a great series, I might have 500 milligrams of Burberrying should be eaten for a very robust effect with every main meal. So you're getting up to about three total doses per day. Four about 12 weeks even longer to see a notable effect. If I have to take a supplement with every meal, it had better work real God damn well because that is slightly inconvenient if I may say so myself. Now, what I did with all of these fat loss supplements, all of these shredding compounds, is I put them up on a rank of how effective they are compared to the gold standard and the gold standard, which we will talk about later. As our final and most impressive substance that we can take for fat loss is called trisapotite. It is a pharmaceutical drug. It is quite new. And it is so effective that it ranks at a hundred percent of effect for us. Burberrying will get you roughly the fat loss of 13 percent of the effect of five milligrams of trisapotite taken for 12 weeks, same 12 weeks. So if you take Burberrying at about a gram and a half per day spread over three doses for 12 weeks, if you take trisapotite at five milligrams per week, notice the per week part. And you take that for 12 weeks, the Burberrying is going to get you 13 percent of the fat loss on average as an expected value, which is like she was, okay, so trisapotite. I got a minister through subcutaneous injection. We'll get to that later once a week, pretty easy. And then it works super well. And then Burberrying at you is three times a day. I got to eat the stuff. And it really only gets me 13 percent. This is one of the reason why fat burning supplements have never amounted to much. It is effective. But the effect is so, so tiny. And by the way, trisapotite at five milligrams isn't even a high dose. That's considered lower dose. They have studies where they administer five milligrams of trisapotite, 10 milligrams of trisapotite, and even 15 milligrams of trisapotite, very safely for most people. So five would consider a low to moderate dose. And even there, there's just no comparison. So there are some practical caveats to Burberrying. You can get a little bit of GI disturbance when you first start it. Usually people get used to it. And if you take medications that are classified as CYP384, and these are generally what's that called, psychogenic medications, they're for a variety of good God. I've got to be at it that out. I was going to be in a tangent to nowhere. If you were on one of these medications, then don't just take Burberrying, make sure to ask CYP384 about whether or not that's a good idea. And then if it that sure, then go talk to your doctor. Really, really big deal. If you have an inkling to take these, the Burberrying for a long time, especially at high doses, you could run into lower vitamin B status potentially as a side effect that's very unlikely, but possible. And also there's a warning to avoid doing this supplement and taking pregnancy. I'm not entirely sure why you try to burn fat during pregnancy. It's probably not a good idea. So Burberrying as far as my own personal vibe, situation is like, given it a tactnically works, it doesn't work very well. And it's a little bit inconvenient to take, so that is what that is. Number two, is actually a mini stack of two supplements, green tea extract and caffeine. And they work synergistically because caffeine is a catacolymine, it basically stimulates a little bit low, low-key, fighter flight response, increases your sympathetic nervous system tone, which is the fighter flight nervous system, gets you burning a bit more calories, burning a bit more fat, which is great. And then the primary way that green tea catacons help out in this situation is that they slow the breakdown of caffeine and its byproducts, which means that you get more out of caffeine and a little bit something out of the green tea extract itself. So very, very interesting situation, it does blunt appetite a little bit, nothing like it does appetite, but it does work. And typically what you would do is take it fasted in the morning, you would administer something like 300 milligrams of green tea extract and 200 milligrams of caffeine. You can take that pre-workout, but then it's probably a good idea to work out earlier in the day so that you don't interfere with your sleep, taking this and roughly eight to 12 week blocks is a very good idea. You do it after a while. And you probably aren't dieting super hard for longer than eight to 12 weeks, in most cases, anyway. If you are, save the green tea plus caffeine for later in that situation. Now, the effect size here, the amount of shredding you're gonna be able to do the amount of fat while you can do compared to trisapatide for a similar duration, trisapatide 5 milligrams and 500 milligrams total of this combined caffeine and green tea extract supplement is going to be 9% 9%. There have been more than a few evidence-based researchers who have looked at the supplement space and have emphatically concluded that it is unfair to label caffeine as a fat burner. Probably because of this kind of effect size. I mean, you guys, like 9% of the most effective drug is curious, very much in the range of you may never see these results on your body. It does work theoretically and people have had success with it. I just want you guys to understand what it is you're signing up for. Here's what I mean. If you actually get prescribed trisapatide and you take it and you follow a good diet, you're gonna see results big time. If you get prescribed or pre-op prescribed, if you get green tea cascins and caffeine combo and you're like, do it on, take this, it's gonna be shred city. Just understand, you may never notice anything. Though under the hood it is working. It is by no means clear if it's something that you're gonna be seeing. Now, this blend does improve workout energy. So if you take it before workout, that can help on that regard, sparing a bit of muscle tissue. So that's a good thing. But as far as raw potential to drive fat burning is just not a thing that is super, super powerful. If you go over 700 milligrams of the combined supplement per day for extended periods, you can't experience some liver stress. So be careful. Definitely don't take it later on the day. Anything after 2pm for sure is a bad idea because your ability to fall asleep is gonna restrict to hell. These are substances that actively keep you awake. And if you're doing other supplements that are not so great for your liver, then doing a lot of this, even moderate doses could be an interesting trade off. So make sure you're blood worked on. If you're into that sort of thing. All right, supplement number three are last supplement until we get to the drugs. And you'll see the effect sizes are a little bit different for the drugs. So supplement number three is capsaicin. I think that's how you see it. It is the thing that exists in spicy foods and makes you all hot and bothered. And it activates if the TRPV1 receptor and what that does is it cranks up your sympathetic tone. It puts you into a little bit more fighter flight. It increases the thermic effect of food, which means the food is actually now taking more calories for you to digest. And it does suppress your appetite slightly. All of those things lead to a predictable, the erratic old amount of fat loss, which is cool. Now, the unfortunate part is similar to burbreen, you're supposed to take about two milligrams of active capsaicin oids. So basically the supplement itself, per meal. Just before each main meal, you gotta take it. For four to 12 weeks, however long you wanna take it for. Again, this is a downside. This is a known downside. If you are new to the fitness game, a huge unlock is anything that can make you more efficient and fluid with your daily tasks. You can get them done, get your training done, get your supplements done, get all that situated. And that is gonna empower you like crazy to be good at the rest of your life and get awesome results. If what you have to do during a fat loss phase, which is hard already because you're eating less and so on and so forth, if what you have to do is like take 50 of these things before a meal and another dozen of these things before a meal, then after a meal, you have to take another supplement. Eating and evening supplement blah, blah. It's gonna get complicated and your probability of success is either gonna fall or the difficulty of the task is gonna rise even if you succeed. All stressors are not good stressors when they're extra on top of that loss diet. Just whole idea of taking stuff with every meal, man, that's really enough. Scott, what do you think about that? If I told you hey, I got supplement, you gotta take it with every meal. That's a lot. It's a lot. It's a lot. I would say if you are using supplements ideally using them, am and PM is pretty good. So you can have some supplements you take in the am, maybe you take some twice a day, some in the PM. So basically when you wake up in the morning, before you go to bed, that is realistic for many humans because both waking up and going to bed are ritualized times all your all. You're always gonna be close to your bed when you're going to bed. You're always gonna be right out of bed at the same time of the day. Meals and stuff that gets little lackey. If you're trying to become a pro bodybuilder, maybe it's good to time stuff with your meals. Otherwise, maybe not worth it. Now here's the real kicker. I'll say this in reverse order. The caveats and practices to avoid with capsicine is that if you aren't used to spicy foods, you get that initial lava gut feeling of heartburn and all that stuff, I personally would never take it because I'm a whos. If you are used to eating spicy things, then no big deal you won't feel anything. However, here's the kicker. Or unless it's kind of before we get to really, really good news, here's the not so great news. Compared to the Tursapatide standard, supplementing with capsicine, you can expect roughly three percent of the fat loss that you would with Tursapatide at a low dose. Three percent you guys is barely detectable in the scientific literature. What we know about capsicine is that yes, from the studies, it technically helps with fat loss. But it is an unbelievably tiny amount. It's like if someone gave you a new steroid and they're like, it's gonna get you stronger. And you're like, yeah, okay, so I currently squat 500. After a year of taking this steroid and squatting properly and training properly and eating, well, what can I expect to squat? And they're like, well, we have a few research studies and it's really gonna be about 505 pounds. And you're like, wait, extra? You mean, I squat a thousand five now? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, 505 totally get five extra in a year, five pounds. And you're like, are you sure you did the study right there? I guess, actually these multiple studies and they all show that you do actually get a reliable five pounds of squat strength. More than you would have otherwise gotten if you trained a year with this magic new crazy steroid and you're like, okay, can you guys remove the magic and crazy part and even the steroid part, please? Is it even technically a steroid? Now, not really. Yeah, things can be effective, but remember for every single supplement for every single training modality, for almost every single thing in life, there are two questions to ask about a thing that you wanna use for yourself. One is, is it effective at all? Like, does it do anything? But two is, does how much of it does it do? How much is the effect? Because the effect is teeny teeny teeny tiny and the supplement costs money, you have to eat it before every meal, a community man, really? Maybe, the answer is maybe, which is why the supplements on the list. I would say for me personally, no, if you think it's worth it awesome, just remember, do not get you some capsaicin beads and bead lifts it right over their called, eat them shit and be like dude, shred city. You're not going to shred city, you're going to mild teeny tiny enhancement, otherwise over your results, if anywhere. Sorry, that's the deal of supplements now. When you're taking supplements and you expect these radical gains to occur, you're gonna be disappointed every time, but you can get good gains with supplements, especially if you use multiple supplements and kind of stack the benefits to some extra. These benefits will come mostly from your diet and your training. One of the biggest myths, recurrent myths in the supplement space, is that if you diet and train kind of like whatever, kind of like normal and you haven't been getting lean, you're just kind of maintaining. If you add in supplements that help you lose fat, all of a sudden, you're gonna start to see results and that's just how it works. In order to see your best results, you have to have most of the work come for modifying the diet and the training, and the physical activity, and then the supplements are just enhancing that process. That's it. So really quick, before we get to the hardcore and utterly drugs that have real big effects and sometimes big downsides, let's take a look at what you must be doing for your best results if you're gonna take any of these things. And even if you're now, number one, you want a high protein diet when you're losing fat, keeps muscle on your body, it's a really big deal. Grand propound or so is a real good place to start. You want to consume four to six meals per day, each one with an even roughly even amount of protein. So for example, if you eat 200 grams of protein per day, and you have four meals per day, each meal should have a roughly 50 grams of protein in it, and spread roughly evenly apart through the day. Wake up, eat a little bit after waking, eat a few hours later, eat a few hours later, eat a little bit before bedtime, go to sleep, recycle, that's how you feed your body, a continuous amount of protein, so that it continuously doesn't lose muscle when there's not a lot of energy around your body's like, hey, who wants to give me energy, you must have like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, and then it gets taken away from its family. No, mommy, the mommy muscles like that, oh my god, the dad's holding my back cause the, the body's guards will shoot the muscle, mommy, if the, but I said muscle, mommy's got, then my muscle, mommy, oh, mostly healthy foods. For two reasons, one, they tend to be very filling and help control your hunger, and two, they tend to be very nutritious, and when you're at a lower calorie intake, you have to make sure that the quality of your nutrition for the remaining calories is very high, you're getting lots of micronutrients, like vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals fiber, water, so that you can fuel your body adequately for all of its needed processes, even though the amount of calories you're putting in is not lower, because if you eat mostly junk food and you have to start having less junk food, you can actually get in a vitamin, mineral deficiencies, short term ones, that are like annoying, and remember, you're an athlete, you want your body to function as well as possible, you have to feed it mostly healthy stuff. You want to generate a caloric deficit. If you're trying to lose fat, and you're like how much burbreen do I have to take, take not lower my calories, but still lose a bunch of fat, the answer is unsafe amount. There's no way to get there with burbreen, so what you have to do is take your normal baseline intake, your maintenance diet, and cut anywhere between 400 and 800 calories out of it. If you're a large king, if you're weighing over 250 pounds, 800 calories cut is really good. If you're a smaller king, you're weighing around 150, 400 calories is good, and everything in between is totally fine. Your average day should be four to 800 calories, fewer input calories, if your food calories, then you expend, and then that is gonna really power me, that does most of the powering of fat loss. It's the fact that your body isn't getting fed from the outside that makes your body go, hey, what the hell I got going on? Well, it's plenty of protein, and then the muscle's good. Let me get some fat, and then it's tough. Eating your body fat, and that's exactly how you get me. Daily steps are a big deal. When you start dieting for fat loss, especially after a few weeks, your body goes, hey man, I don't wanna lose all this weight. I'm kinda getting freaked out as a starvation. I was designed by evolution to like prevent this, so it takes your daily energy, expend your endurance, so it's lowering, and it makes you a little lazier, a little slower. And if you're not tracking your steps, you could be starting at 10,000 steps today, which is very healthy and provides a robust amount of calorie burning for fat loss, and it's just to go to 8,000, 6,000, 4,000 by the end of the diet, you're sitting on the couch mostly, and you're like, I wonder why I'm not losing a lot of weight anymore, a lot of fat, and it's because your body is tailor-made to make you stop doing that, because it's freaked out and thinks you're dying of starvation. So having a step tracker, like I do now, is a really good idea, peg your steps, somewhere between 10 and 12,000 per day and average most people, for that 8 to 12 week fat loss or duration, and then you're good to go, you're making sure your expenditure is really good, you're training really hard, you're diet, you know what you're taking in, you're getting that deficit, and then it's not a guessing game anymore, you're almost certainly gonna lose all the weight that you want. On that note of muscle sparing and muscle growth, you must continue to train hard with weights. When you are training hard with weights and a surplus, when you're eating enough food to grow, the weights are making your muscles grow and you're adding muscle. When you're training weights and a deficit, you are not growing much muscle, but you're fighting muscle loss. So what happens is, if you grow muscle, that's good, you can add muscle. But if you are in a fat loss phase, the amount of catabolic or muscle loss stimulus coming in, localaries, low energy, low carbohydrate rates, all that stuff, the hormonal profile changes, your testosterone levels fall, all of a sudden you're not growing any muscle, probably, but you're losing muscle. There's a muscle loss thing. So if you didn't train with weights, you would actually lose lots of muscle on dieting. How do we know that? Well, folks that finally cut their calories of tongue through drugs like some agulotide, which will cover in a little bit, when they don't resist in strain, they lose tons of muscle, like a third of their weight loss is muscle. And why wouldn't it be? If your diet isn't care about if muscle anymore, and it cares about any other organ, so it's like, yeah, I'm starving, we're gonna take muscle, we're gonna take fat, no big deal. If you weight train consistently, two to six times per week, depending on your circumstance, you can do that. Then usually, you can pretty much cancel out every single bit of muscle loss. You're not gaining on net, but you're neutral on net. And if you have all of your muscle on your body at the end of a fat loss diet that you did at the beginning, and you have 10 pounds or 15 pounds of fat off of your body, that is a next level look. That's the look you're looking for, and here's the best part. When you start gaining weight again after that, you're almost fully eating lots of good food, lots of protein training really hard. You just gain muscle after that. And a lot of these phases stack together, eat to 12 week deficit duration, then eat to 12 weeks of maintenance. Or muscle gain, then more deficit, then maintenance or muscle gain, you do these waves. On the down waves, you don't lose muscle but you lose fat. On the up waves, you gain some muscle and you gain some fat. If you can iterate that on your head for a second, you realize that, okay, so actually the long-term result is I keep my muscle mass stable and or increasing slowly in my fat mass, over multiple diets drops down and down and down and down. That cyclic approach is what can allow you to lose unbelievable amounts of weight over the long-term, and that's really the way to do it. This recommendation that I just gave you, this list of recommendations, is the workhorse of your fat loss diet. If you do these things and take no supplements, you're gonna be very successful. If you do these things and take supplements, you're gonna be even a little bit more successful. If you don't do these things, you can take all the supplements you want, your success is absolutely not guaranteed, and probably just won't happen at all. All right, onto the drugs. Clean butarol, have to include because lots of people use it. It is a beta-2 adrogenergic agonist, which means it kind of ramps you up. It raises how much, how many calories your cells, pretty most of your cells burn, it cranks sympathetic tone, which means it makes you really fight a flight. It's kind of like super caffeine in the certain sense. And it's significantly bumps your resting metabolic rate, up to 20% in some cases, which is a big deal. And what it does is, typically you burn some combination of proteins, carbs and fats for your any time calorie needs, it shifts this a large degree, up to 40% towards fat oxidation. That's really cool. It's a very effective. There is a lot of controversy about how to take clumb uter all some people say you need to take two weeks on two weeks off because the receptors get really used to it. Some people say you can take it up to eight weeks at a time and the receptors don't on regulate. I'm not sure about this. This is more of a field question. And I've never taken clumb uter all because I don't do well with stimulants. But I've seen people take it plenty. Most people have totally fine results with it if they can handle the super caffeine feeling. It also makes your hands jittery and all that other crazy shit. But typically you would start at something like 40 micrograms per day in the morning so that you can sleep somewhere at night. It does scrub your sleep no matter when you take it. It's got a long half life. And you can titrate slowly. If needed up to 100 micrograms per day are 120 even. And those are the typical recommendations. What I would say is clumb uterolls a very powerful drug. Only take it as per the recommendations of your bodybuilding coach and probably under no other circumstances. Now, effect size here is impressive. Compared to five milligrams of trisapotide for an equal duration, a robust dose of clumb uteroll can lead to something like 40% of the weight loss that trisapotide can and of the fat loss. Boyo boy does that beat 13, 9 and 3% from earlier. And guys, this right here, this is why people take drugs in the fitness world. So you know why do people take clumb uteroll? Cause it works man. And it asked like, why do bodybuilders rotate supplement companies all the time as sponsors and they're taking capsace in one week and the next week they have a new sponsor and they're yelling about burbery and that's how it made them jack. But it seems to be like the switch in all the time. Casca's sub-cussopolis don't do all that much man. Not for fat loss they don't. But clen works every time that you can handle a side effects. And on that note, let's talk about the caveats and the kind of provisos here. So clumb uteroll's not FDA approved for humans. So you're gonna be getting it illegally. You're gonna know that sort of thing, God bless you. I think it's probably a bad idea. So give that some thought. It is not a world anti-doping agency approved substance. So you will 100% get popped for it. It is cheating in sport. If you're sport federation bands it, don't do it. It 100% puts your cardiovascular system. You're heart specifically into overdrive. Cowsing what's called tacacardia, which is a rapid heartbeat. If you're ever on clen, you know, exactly what I'm talking about. For some people this can lead to temporary a rhythmy as where your heart gets off beat and gets all wacky and you're like, because this is it. Am I gonna die? Maybe, probably not, but maybe. It can cause hand tremors like I mentioned before. And if you use it for extended periods, yeah, you can promote a maladaptive cardiac hypertrophy or heart grows the walls thicken and it can pump less blood. And it can promote hypocalemia, which is a two little potassium. And like that's actually kind of dangerous. Probably you won't be super in danger, but it's not super healthy for you straight up. And you have to cycle it all the time at least after about eight weeks. It loses a lot of potency. You've got to stop for a while. I'm not a big deal, because you're gonna be taken it for a long anyway, but just something to note, kind of a downside. And, you know, there's medications like QT interval prolonging medications. If you're taking for various other situations, you have that, that Climbinger all really interferes with, it's one of these drugs. It's not like a modern, it's quite old. It's not a modern fine-tune drug that is very few side effects and a very awesome main effect. It's got a very awesome main effect, but it has side effects up the Wahzu. So my general recommendation for you is like, probably just don't use Climbing. If you've used it before with success with good management, it's totally fine. But if you're like, hey, should I use Climbing? Or all the answers probably not. And the answers probably not, because now we have drugs that are just way better. What are they? Our second to last drug is Samagletide, otherwise known as OZEMPIC as a trade name. It is a GLP1 receptor agonist, which means it clips into the GLP1 receptor and makes it think that it's the real thing. And what it does is it has a bunch of different effects. But the main ones were interesting for fat loss is that it slows gastric ampting, which means you hold food in your stomach for longer, which massively, massively, in combination with other factors, reduces your appetite, a ton. Samagletide also improves your insulin response. It is otherwise incredibly healthy for you. Most of its side effects are really awesome, health boosting and longevity boosting effects. It will crush your appetite like you cannot believe. And here's the best part. You administer it through subcutaneous injection with a teeny tiny needle that you barely feel, insulin needles, the millions of Americans use, once a week. And it gains in potency at the same dose for five weeks. After that, it flatlines. And if that's enough drug for you to manage your hunger to take your deficit, remember the one that we calculated earlier, 400 or 800 somewhere between their calories less than normal. And if at that deficit, you no longer experience radical hunger that throws you off, you are on the right amount of Samagletide. Do not take any more than that because you will experience more side effects for what purpose feel, you've so much hunger that you're inconvenienced about eating, I don't think that's an epbenefit. So what you need here out of Ozenpek, out of Samagletide is to get just enough of a dose that allows you to eat your normal weight loss diet, your fat loss shredding diet, and feel normally hungry like you would during any other time. What a miracle. That's what you can use it for. And that's how it's best use. You can take this drug forever. It's probably a good idea to take it forever because it's so good for your health. The only reason you wouldn't take it forever is if the side effects are really fucked up, which we'll get to in a sec, or if there's a better drug around. And there is, I'll get to that one and just a little bit. The effect size of Samagletide compared to Trasopontide the gold standard is 84% guys, it's two times more effective on the scale than even clung buterol. This is a big deal. This is a real drug. Now, ramp up is when you experience most of the side effects, because oftentimes people start too high in dose and they ramp too fast. A lot of folks in the medical community will prescribe 0.5 milligrams per week. That's too much for most people to start with. I see it's 0.25 milligrams. That's right, quarter of a milligrams. The top dose is about 2.5 milligrams. So we're starting at one tenth of the top dose and our goal is not to go to the top dose. It is only to go to a dose that allows us decent hunger management, good proper hunger management, that leaves us just hungry enough to eat all of our food for the day when we're in a fat loss phase and feel totally normal about it. That's the most you need to take. If you take more than that and if your person attends to have a sense of stomach, you could be looking at some nausea. It's very rare to get pancreatitis or gallstones, but it does happen mostly when people just continue to eat high fat junk food diets and don't eat healthy. And of course, if you stop some aguletide, your weight will creep back up but very slowly. And here's the best part of us, a maguletide. It doesn't lose its effect seemingly ever. You take caffeine every day for a while. You're gonna need a lot more caffeine to do the same thing. You take some aguletide every week and they still haven't found a point at which it stops working or works less well. Like people have been on it for like a decade at this point. And nothing. Now, some maguletide is an incredibly powerful substance. And so I have some tips for you as to how to make sure not to screw yourself over, get the most out of the drug and pay the least. Why is this a big deal? You will go on the internet and you will look up side effects, negatives of some maguletide of a zempick. You will hear fucking horror stories. And there's entire YouTube videos of Cornacode experts talking about how bad these drugs are. I'm gonna tell you something. Real talk from the trenches from the scientific perspective and the personal perspective because I have taken some maguletide, a bunch, it's amazing. Almost every single downside can be managed by not doing dumb shit. Let me tell you how that works. Number one, if you continue to take in high calorie boluses of food, Scott, how many Taco Bell burritos do you think you can eat in one sitting if you have like five minutes? Me personally. Like aliens will fix you afterwards. I can do like one a minute. One a minute. So can a lot of people that are overweight. Scott's not a big guy. So if you go back to Taco Bell and you shred down 2,000 or 3,000 calories of Taco Bell food, which is real all the same food, shaped in different ways, you on ozempick on some maguletide are gonna put something in your gut that takes like 18 hours to get through your gut. And ride around halfway through that, your body makes a calculation that the food in there is rotting. Now it's not moving fast enough through the stomach. So it's gonna go, you know what we're gonna fix this is, infinity, heartburn, vomiting, diarrhea, and after that more vomiting, why not? You're gonna have a bad time. The way some maguletide works the best is if you take every single recommendation I gave earlier about how to structure your diet. Very healthy foods, no crazy late night eating, very normal amounts of calories spread evenly. You're gonna have an amazing time, nine times, 95 times out of 100 with some maguletide. If you eat high calorie foods in huge quantities, you're gonna have a bad time. It's almost a guarantee. And if these are very high fat foods, it's even worse. So you want moderate to low fats, spread in multiple meals through the day, very healthy foods. I said this already, I'm gonna say it again, evening eating on some maguletide can cause heartburn when you're sleeping, which tends to cook up your sleep if I last correctly checked. So evening, you want lighter meals, maybe something like Regiogurt, just a bit of protein, and then you're good to go. Remember, you're not hungry on some maguletides, you don't even have to eat a lot before you go to bed to fall asleep, you're good to go. Another one is ease into the doses, start with 0.25 milligrams. And remember, for five weeks straight, it's just gonna feel more and more strong because it sums up in your blood that entire time because of its super long half-life. Until then, unless after about three weeks, if you feel literally nothing, then you can go to 0.5. But if it three weeks, you're a guy, I'm starting to feel some pretty decent stuff. And my diet's really easy, do not go up to 0.5. One of the number one biggest mistakes that are made in the administration of some maguletide and related compounds by doctors, unfortunately, is they do a pre-determined ramp-up period. So a lot of times, they'll start you at, this is crazy, but really is how it works. They do a month at 0.5, which for maybe 30% of people is already too much, and that's how they have the side effects that were reported on the internet. Scott, this is gonna blow your mind. They do a month at 1 milligram, which for most people is way more than enough. They do a month at 1.5, which is like, oh, you guys, seriously, try to burn people out. And then they do a month at 2, and sometimes, if 2 doesn't cut it, they put you at a 2.4, which is the entire size of the OZEMPIC pen. It's crazy, they just jack you up, regardless. Yeah. So my wife has a history of being overweight, struggled with appetite, like, psychotic appetite. She used to be, she's 4 foot 11, she used to wait 200 pounds. Like, straight up, that's a big old bitch, you feel me? I'm saying, and I didn't know her back then, but she was still gonna back then. Ah, that's my girl. Anyway, she ended up needing 1 milligram per week, a pharmaceutical, a ZEMPIC, pharmaceutical semagleti, the best quality shit, to completely control her body weight all the way down to like 135 pounds. I don't know who 2.4 is 4. Certainly, people have different genetics and sensitivities, but the idea that you would ramp everyone to 2 plus milligrams is fucking insane. Do not do it, do not do it. You're gonna have a bad time, nine times out of 10. 2 milligrams is for people that have ramped very slowly to 1.5 and don't really feel much. That's who 2 mixes for. For everyone else, some are routine 0.25 and 1.25 milligrams. Over very, very many weeks of titrating up, if you feel like you need more, is the situation. Because as you increase the dose, the side effects creep up every single time. So the big thing is here, ease into the doses and don't dose higher than you need. If you're like at 1 milligram and you're just coasting, you're like, oh my God, I don't feel hungry. I'm rocking my diet, I'm losing 2 pounds a week. And anyone, and I'm gonna say something controversial here, including your doctor, says, you need to go up to 1.5, don't. Talk to your doctor like a normal human and ask him, hey, like I heard on the internet, it's one other fake doctor guy, Dr. Mike. He said that maybe if I'm feeling really good at 1 milligram that going to 1.5 is pointless and nonsense, they don't say it that way. Talk to Chad GBT, talk to another doctor. Don't just ramp into infinity. That's a really, really bad idea. Now, when you're especially starting in the first few weeks, if you drink a workout shake, like I do, during kit more slowly, if you drink your workout shake at the normal speed, you may find that halfway through your workout, you're like staring over a trash can, you're like, I've never bothered after shoulders before. First time for everything. So really, you're in and whatever meal you eat before your workout, let's say typically eat three hours before your workout and then you go train, try to make that meal fewer calories, like mostly protein, a little bit of carbs, a little bit of fats, or move that meal back a few hours so that you don't have a bad time because if you're training on a full stomach with some agulotide, probability of vomiting escalates. That's those empec, that's some agulotide. Our final drug number three is our gold standard. It is trisepatide. It is the semagulotide drug, the GLP1 agonist, plus a GIP agonist. Now, they used to think that GIP caused obesity, but it turns out it was backwards. We all get our guesses wrong every now and again. Trisepatide is a dual agonist, which means it hits two pathways. And that means it's able to do everything semagulotide is able to do, but with two differences. One, it works even better to suppress your appetite with fewer side effects, which is like really tripped out. So, trisepatide, at any given dose that it causes a certain amount of weight loss, we'll see fewer side effects, fewer heart-murn incidences, less nausea, all that stuff, compared to semagulotide. And I've taken both, and I'm currently on trisepatide, it is a big difference, very big difference. Some people start trisepatide, then I don't think it's working. Like, are you hungry? Like, no? Oh, how do you think it's at working? I don't have heartburn after every meal. Like, I used to do with those epic. Like, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah. So, trisepatide has that big power, but I'll tell you guys this, when you're on semagulotide, and you're at the end of a real gnarly fat loss phase, your hunger is pretty much gone. Just you just turned out more medicine, less hunger. But you're cravings that kind of Scott, you know, you know, the trisepatide hunger and cravings, you know what I'm saying? Absolutely. Like, you're not hungry, but that corn dog just looks like you're fucking need a corn dog. And someone's like, oh, you do you want chicken breast? You're like, no. Because by the way, guys, there's a really easy test to see if you're hungry, or if you're craving. Oh, it's a big one. Yes, it is. The true test. Jared Feather, I have me, I have me pro, was coaching Breonna Terry, also I have you pro, and one of the strongest women in history to in through one of her diets. And she was like, I'm hungry. And he goes, cool, you can have all of the casey in putting you want. And I believe her text response was, give you. But what Bree really meant to say was, I just want cheeseburgers and stuff. I'm not actually hungry. Remember, if you go to Africa where they're starving children, you give them a tub of casey in putting, they're gonna go through the tub, really goddamn quick, probably have a lot of diarrhea. But food is food, at high quality protein. And if you're actually hungry, you need physical nutrients in your body, chicken breast works, broccoli works, casey in putting works. And OZEMPIC is gonna take that shit and almost eliminate it. Samagalty'd pretty much eliminate it. But you still feel like a little pizza pizza, a little cheeseburger, and that feeling can get real intense towards the end of a diet. And then you succumb to that feeling, and Samagalty'd say, hey man, I couldn't help with that, but now you're gonna have diarrhea. Bad news. Trezzepatide through that GIP receptor seems to hit also the cravings in a very different way. When you're on Trezzepatide, you're not even really interested in food as anything other than like, oh yeah, like, I need to eat food and it's still tasty. But that drive that desire to be a little more, I need Cheetos, it's pretty much gone. And so Trezzepatide is humongously effective. And its side effects are massive health upsides. It is better for your heart tissue. It brings your cholesterol down. It brings your blood pressure down. It reduces total body inflammation and the pace of aging. It reduces brain inflammation and pushes back the onset of all sorts of degenerative disease in the brain, like Alzheimer's and dementia, no joke. And by the way, this has nothing to do with its weight loss benefits. Those add to all of those things. These are weight neutral benefits. Trezzepatide is nothing short of a flicking miracle drug. It is an elixir of health. And if you can tolerate the GI effects and you can keep your body weight up and train with weights that eat enough protein, maybe everyone can kind of be on low to moderate dose trisepatide, kind of all the time. And the effects here are staggering. After a year and a half of using trisepatide and basically doing nothing else, the average person who weighed about 200-220 pounds when they started lost about 35 pounds of body weight. These we have no comparator for this. Diet and exercise. People just don't do long enough to see benefits like that. But here's the real unlock. All of the same precautions you take with trisepatide. Don't eat late at night, make your food nice and healthy. Control your calories, get plenty of activity, resistance, train, consistently. So you combine all these amazing fitness industry habits we've all been yapping about for generations to your face. Eat well, sleep well, train hard, be consistent. Get steps plus trisepatide. And again, starting at trisepatide is dose differently. She's got a 2.5 milligrams and then maybe you go up to five and maybe you just stop there. It doses up to 15 milligrams, do not take 15 milligrams of trisepatide under first time. You're going to have a really bad time. If you combine all these healthy habits and trisepatide and shameless plug controlling all of that with the RP Diet Coach App link in description, then what you can do is not have just the drug effects or just the diet enhancing and activity enhancing effects. You can have a synergy. You can have both. And then at the end of a year and a half or two years of taking trisepatide and controlling your diet, maybe with the RP Diet Coach App and resistance training to to six times per week and getting 10,000 or so steps a day, you can lose 20, 30, 40 pounds of fat. And zero muscle. That will transform how you look. It'll transform your health. It'll transform how you feel and you might even have the confidence to ask Stacy out. Scott, will you be Stacy for a second as we close out this video? Yes. Hey, Stacy, you noticed my new shreds? Oh my god. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You've been like that. I just want to like do you. Oh my. Oh, yeah. But like, I got it where I got to work out. Oh, no. I checked out you guys. Stacy said yes, but I couldn't go through with it. When your Stacy says yes, go through with it. And wear a condom. See you guys next time. Condoms are for losers, folks. Remember that.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for our sounds peridization. And today's BS video edition is the claim that Big Pharma is evil. Woo! What is it up to now? Taking over the world, I imagine. Wait a minute, am I saying that Big Pharma isn't evil? Yes, yes, I am. So, I better have some good reasoning. Here we go. First, any time, lots of corporations do business all over the world. For decades, you'll have many individual instances of corporate mouthpieces. Companies do in bad stuff. And there is no large industry, I'm aware of, that has any exception. If 100 large companies is the sample size, and only one out of 100 does bad stuff, how many big corporations are there in the world? Oh, way more than 100. So, you're just going to see a lot of corporate actors, even though the vast majority are very good actors. So, yes, big Pharma companies have done some fucked up shit before. Or sure, that doesn't paint the entire industry as bad. Right? Certainly, you would not say because some people commit crimes and go to jail that all humans are fucked up, criminal pieces of shit. That's not what sense most people are right. Some are fucked up, criminal pieces of shit. It does not paint all humans. Number two. Any time, large corporations with lots of money, and interest-to-making more money are very heavily regulated, especially unintelligently by governments, they will take a very keen interest in the regulation, which means that some of those companies will be able to start doing things like keeping out competitors, getting really cozy with various government politicians to carry favor, sweet talk to the regulators, a point their own pharmacy host, regulatory bodies, not unique to Pharma at all. Okay, if you have a bi-american sticker on your car, and you drive forward or GM or whatever the fuck, and you're same-man, big Pharma's evil mother fuck, and you know kind of backroom deals, the big three-fuck car companies are doing. Same-same is just big companies do that shit sometimes, they do it much more often with unintelligent regulation, a point I will come back to you in a bit. Number three, to flip the script. So, so far, we're just saying, look, big Pharma's not unique in being bad. Sometimes it does bad shit, but does it ever do good shit? Have a fun experiment. Go out into the street, don't actually do this. Take a, one of those chainsaws that cuts off the branches of the garden, bushes that you don't like. Scott, a video guy's here named for that thing. Head's trimmer, and just push that motherfucker right into your leg. All of a sudden, big Pharma is the only fucking thing that can save you. Big Pharma saves your life, and it probably actually has saved your life before. If you ever need to take anti-biotics, who the fuck you think made that shit? Gramm had even cooked that shit up in her bathtub, that you're busy making meth, I'm sure. You know what's up, Gramm? You shit is good, by the way. See you in an hour. Big Pharma makes life saving medicines, including simple shit like Adville, you ever had a headache? You would just still have a headache, if not for a getting. If not for a big Pharma, they make all the shit that literally saves lives. So at least they're doing an unbelievable amount of good. And people will say, well yeah, that's if you're sick, but what if I'd have if you're healthy, they try to push drugs on you. First of all, I've never had a drug push on me by big Pharma in my life. I sure shit, fucking hope they would, motherfucker. I don't have damn pen cushion for the shit, and they never get calls from drum companies and they say, you want to try and delay just anti-biotic agent, something like the phone is silent a shit. But to that point, they're working on health stuff. Samagletide and other related GLP1 agonists are the best obesity fighting drugs ever. They're a new generation. They're gonna change the world. Thank you, Big Pharma, genomic diabetes cures. A year ago, they did an experiment where they had a viral vector that changed a few genes. I mean, you can just one in a group of, I think like five to 10 people with type one diabetes, in more diabetes, they just didn't have diabetes anymore. And they don't, they never will. And that kind of shit is funded exclusively by Big Pharma and made by Big Pharma innovative, invented, produced, manufactured, sold. And through the competition of Big Pharma, existence is one entity. There's like what the fuck is Big Fitness that's a ton of competitors. The major pharmaceutical companies ruthlessly competing against each other, bringing the prices of all those insane drugs, down all the time and in the future, you'll be able to have drugs that care entire swaths of disease. And it's coming because we already have drugs that care and tire swaths of disease. For example, high blood pressure. You just don't need to have it anymore because Big Pharma crushed that shit. It just ended the problem. You take an appropriate amount of high blood pressure men, or blood pressure men's, they have basically no side effects anymore. And you just won't have high blood pressure men's. The shit kills millions of people. Not anymore, it doesn't have to. Could you just go buy the pills? And if she, as fuck, I don't even know how they make money on it. They cost me the $8 a month to get blood pressure pills. How does it work? Then the container costs $8 a fuck would I know? Unbelievable stuff. They're now using immune system-based cancer curses to zap entire cancers out of existence. And more is coming. The 2030s are going to be unbelievable. And guess who the fuck is the tip of the spear for that shit? Big Pharma. Lil Pharma's not up to the task. Gramma, math, top math is not going to fucking cure every disease. Big Pharma almost certainly will eventually. Here's the last deal on this. Big Pharma is like most other large industries. It's generally fucking great. I talked shit on the big three earlier. I love fucking cars. The Chrysler 300, that's my shit. Scott, did you guys wanna kind of car your drives back home? Dodge Challenger, you can give me a more male American car than that. I challenge you. Challenge? Corporations are fucking sweet. They mostly do amazing shit. But they do some fucked up shit on occasion. What are we supposed to do about that hate them and write them off, fuck big Pharma? They're greedy evil people. No. We have some choices. We need to make sure we're applying intelligent regulation, which is a whole other video I'll do on some other channel. We need to make sure they're staying innovative, which means mostly getting the fuck out of their way, but also means we can't have the wrong kind of regulation. Let's go after lies and fraud and theft. And when they hurt people with drugs that they knew we're gonna hurt them 100%. Let's fucking go after them hard to make sure that doesn't happen. But let's not throw the baby away with the bath water. Because for the love of God, you may think big Pharma's evil, but I want antibiotics when I get sick. And when there's a fungus eating my fucking feet, I want an anti-fungal and no one orders to make that shit. So big Pharma all the way. Not perfect for sure. Can we make it better for sure? Do we want to cancel it and say it's evil and bad? Lock that. And if you do, take that head-geater or your fucking leg by the fucker and try to get out of there without lying on big Pharma. Please don't do that. Take care of yourself. See you guys next time.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike here for Renaissance Predensation. And today's topic is about advanced training mistakes, common mistakes, advanced individuals make. Here we're talking about advanced folks. You can divine it in many ways, but a common definition is you've been training for like oh six or seven plus years pretty consistently and you've been somewhat aware of what's going on at the time. You weren't just like, monotonously coached by someone and you're like, no idea what's going on with your body. So if you are advanced, then you should not be making the following mistakes. We could least think of six of them. I'm sure there are more with these are the six that really, really, if you stop making them, you're going to open up little tiny portals of a small amount of additional growth at a very at a negative expense, which is to say a benefit of less joint and connective tissue disruption, less chance of injury. And if you make all these mistakes or many of them, the amount of total growth you can open up is substantial. And I just growth in the next six months, but growth in the next six years, because now your advanced training and that sustainably, small increase in growth will yield big increases over a certain amount of time. So here we go. First, big mistake that a lot of people make when they've been training for more than six or seven years is they know how many sets they used to have to do as an intermediate, let's say 10 sets on average per chest workout for the pecks. And they're trying to match or beat these volumes because at some point they're at about maximum recovery volume and they thought, could volumes of a method of overloading and if I do more and more and more, I'll become more successful. Here's the problem. As you become more advanced, you become stronger, which means that any given set fucks you up more, literally a mechanical basis, than it used to, right? You can do 10 sets of pecks if your bench press is 150 pounds for sets of 10, no problem and probably survive and probably it's great for you. 10 sets of hard chest training when your bench max is 250 is a whole world of difference. And it may only take six or seven sets to do even more damage and even more growth stimulus than what it would take for 10 sets to do back when you were much weaker. So that's a thing. And another thing is, if you have been paying attention and you've been slowly learning your body and slowly altering your technique to be more effective over time, you used to take a 10 sets of chest work to hit the chest properly because in any one time you weren't really connected to the muscle and you didn't know hard to archer attract. And it was like, yeah, you're moving chest stuff around, you're doing a good job, but not a great job. If you're advanced, you probably know how to train your chest so well at this point. But not only are you stronger and every set is more effective because of that, but the way you're doing the technique, the way you're setting up, the way you're pre-stretching the packs and all of those details, mean that each set is doubling more powerful. So you may not need as many sets in this whole idea of like, I used to do 10 sets for chest, bro. It's what I'm doing and you clear signs that you're under-recovering all the time. Eight sets is the most you should be doing. You're like, fuck that man. I'm not doing less, bro. That's stupid. You're not taking a step away from progress by doing eight sets instead of 10. You are taking a step into the direction of progress. Right. Stupid analogy that still works is you take a look at how many F-22s the United States has in production and combat readiness versus how many last generation fighter they had, which is the F-15. Then, the way more and had way more combat ready F-15s than F-22s. And you think fuck, we're backsliding as a military. I'm asking this. Can we think what we're in in a fight? 2022 American military or 1980s American military. What do we mean fucking close? Why? Because of F-22 is so fucking advanced that it can shoot to kill six independently targeted F-15s and never be seen at all and it can just go air over fuel, land for weapons and go back out, just shoot more infinite F-15s out of the sky. So, very few people are like, we should build thousands of F-22s. We don't need thousands. There's this no army to oppose that. It's something to hold fucking world would be able to do. Just the same way when you get really, really good at training after seven years, you may not need as many sets to do the same thing as you used. And that's okay. But if you're just chasing around numbers, you could get yourself into trouble with recovery. Next problem. Not enough of a mind muscle focus. Yes, the research show that a mind muscle connection provides teeny teeny benefits or no benefits at all. And that's true for the beginners and intermediate that compose those studies. And the way some of those studies define mind muscle connection is like appropriateceptive awareness of the fact that your muscle exists in is contracting. The way we define mind muscle connection here is do you feel a shit load of tension in your target muscle when it's heavy, load that's being lifted? And when it's lighter load, closer to failure, do you feel an unbelievably painful metabolite burn in the muscle that you're targeting? If the answer is yes, then that's good. Good mind muscle connection. If the answer is, I don't think I feel it in that muscle or I don't think I feel it at all, there's feels heavy. Then the answer is no, my muscle connection is not ideal. And the thing is, as you become more large and strong and more advanced, your mind muscle connection can really make your stimulus to fatigue ratio that much higher. Because if you do a set of presses, you feel a lot in your front delts, a little bit in your pecks, some in your triceps, really your elbows and shoulders and your hurting, that sucks. You will get growth in your chest, but not much, not as much as you could, you'd have to do other exercises and do all those stupid shit. But if you have a really developed, I'm awesome, mind muscle connection on that same chest press machine, and your technique is subtly different such that you experience a huge amount of tension in your pecks and a huge burn with higher reps, you are going to be doing fewer sets, potentially with even less weight and getting the same or better stimulus and way less fatigue, holy fucking shit. This, mind muscle focus is something that has to be developed by someone who really wants to earn the title of advanced. If you're in a advanced hypertrophy trainee, then if you say to me, hey, my favorite exercise for biceps is the easy curl. I'm going to be like, hey, when you do the easy curl, do you feel a shit load of tension and we're burning your biceps? If you say no, holy fuck, why is that your favorite exercise? That the very least, you could say is my biceps are so terrible, I don't feel the mind muscle connection on any exercise. That that's almost never going to happen. As you're training, your beginner days, you're not worried about mind muscle connection, all you're just worried about really good technique. As you're training as an intermediate, you're not worried about mind muscle connection, you're worried about good technique, of course, but that's already stable and training hard. Every set push close and close to failure. As an advanced lifter, you already know how to train with good technique, generally good technique. You already know how to train hard. Now it's time to position yourself differently and use different exercises, use different cadences in order to take that good technique, hard training, and really feel the tension and the burn where you're supposed to be feeling. And that may require subtle, or even not so subtle adjustments to technique and execution, et cetera. That's the goal of an advanced lifter. If you're not doing that, you're not really doing the advanced thing. Point number three, you do too many non-dominant SFR exercises, which means that by the time that you get to the advanced level, certainly after a few years of being advanced or training more than seven years and being awake that entire time, you need to know pretty damn well what exercises work best for you and what exercises are not bad, right? You should be spending most of your very limited recovery capacity and gym time on the most effective variance and very little of your time if any on the least effective. Yet sometimes you'll see even advanced body builders doing some of their favorite exercises that work well and then doing other exercises that are kind of dumb and shitty. And you ask them, I hate you, you like that, like no, I hate it, but I got to cover all my bases, you know? Like no, that's not true, right? Just flinging ingredients randomly that are sweet and or chocolatey at a cake doesn't make a good cake. A good cake is when you particularly arrange certain very intricately interplayed ingredients that make the ultimate thing taste really good. So you don't want to just be like, oh yeah, let's use X-YZ exercises. You have to have a core group of five to 10. Sometimes even fewer, real go to exercises that are fucking work really well for your body. The highest stimulus in a low level fatigue, tons of tension, tons of burn in the target muscle, whenever you train them and tons of someone has tons of pump, et cetera, and very little joint and connectivity stress. You should know what those exercises are, and you should stick mostly to them. Related, air number four, people who stick to high raw stimulus magnitude exercises, that generate a high level of fatigue because of either habit or pride or some combination of both. A lot of people that are pretty advanced are still doing low bar squats. They're still doing conventional deadlifts. They're still doing overhead barbell presses. It is possible that those exercises are very good stimulus to fatigue ratio for them, but it is not like those exercises tend to work better for beginners. As you get more advanced, your external load consideration needs to fall and ask yourself the question of, how can I do this to my body lifting the smallest external load, not the biggest one? And your technique and everything else is gonna zoom in to making sure the target muscle gets to hit, which often means that you're going away from the super compound ego basics and getting a little bit more towards the body building and asking kind of exercise. I'm gonna bring up a video. This is a criticism, super open-minded criticism. I could absolutely be wrong. This is just an illustration of something that could be up. I've seen a video of Chris Bumstead doing low bar Smith machine squats to a very good depth I might have had with an impressive amount of weight, like six plates for a sense of five to 10. And that's awesome. And there is absolutely chance in which that is just a good variant for him, or he ran out of other variants. Or just the vast variant for him and it just stimulus to feed ratios amazing. Maybe more than likely, however, if he switched to ultra high bar, pushed his feet two or three inches in front and did the super upright, slowly centric Smith machine squat with a pause at the bottom, he'd hammer his quads a little bit more and hammer the rest of his body considerably less. Again, just using that as a, I could absolutely be wrong that it could be a great exercise for him. But if you are in the position of choosing your own exercises in your advanced, and you will man, I'm really fucking strong at low bar squats. I just wanna keep pushing that, but you fucking know in your heart of hearts that your back gets tired, your soul gets tired. You get hurt a little bit more often with low bar squats because you're lifting so much fucking weight. But every time you do high bar squats with a pause, super strict, knees forward. Instead of squatting 500 pounds for reps, you're doing 350 pounds for reps, but you're fucking quads get hit way more and the rest of you gets hit way less. It's time to move away from the ego. This is something that for me was a little bit painful and is only now ending. I used to be pretty good at the squat bench and I left, at least as far as I was concerned, I was proud of my numbers and that's what matters. And I liked doing them and I kept doing them to the point where they were not so effective and the point where it was obvious I could be doing more through through wussy machines and isolationy type movements and getting just bigger stimulus and less fatigue. Certainly less fatigue for the stimulus which is to say a better stimulus to the federation. Now that I am doing more of those things, I'm the biggest ever ever been and my joints hurt less than they have ever hurt in living memory. It's a fucking good tradeoff. But some people, even if they're advanced, won't make it because of just pride and ego, like you wanna be that guy in the gym lifting fucking super heavy weights. Sweet, but what do you want more hypertrophy or to be fucking strong? Remember, in the hand out trophies at the bodybuilding show, they don't give a fuck who strong. And when that girl who's gonna, of course, offer her body to you because of your jackness, she doesn't care how strong you are, she doesn't even know how to count. How much weight is that? Don't care, flex your bicep. Let's go to my unmarked van, she says. Number five, this is a trippy one that I have to remind myself of because as you guys all know, I'm a sandbagging piece of shit and I don't have what it takes to train hard. If you're beginner intermediate, you may not have to go remotely close to failure to get your best games. But as an advanced athlete, you may have to push the system and the local physiology to its fucking limits a little bit more often, or at least regularly, which is to say that at the end, every last week of a mesocycle, provided that it's a movement which won't kill you if you fail in it, you could see yourself going pretty close to failure, even too failure and even maybe a little bit beyond. Things like drop sets, mechanical drop sets, et cetera, start to be as something you can look at as an advanced athlete because this is the time in your career when you want to squeeze the most juice out of that very possible because after the berry, that is you get old and the juice is disgusting. And nobody wants to talk to you anymore. You're about to build a career and a dare I say, social life is over. And you're just that creeping man in your apartment building that used to wave at girls and they would smile and now they just run. So I got really upset. I don't mean any of that. But really trying your fucking best means in your last workout of an accumulation phase, can experiment going too failure or even beyond if it's safe. Notice I said experiment, which rules out two things. One, in the first several weeks, don't do that shit. Do start two or three RIR and then go up. And also the experiment part here is how this works. Some people, the stimulus to fatigue ratio for them of going too and beyond failure is such a dog shit, they'll just never benefit from. And they can always stop at two reps and reserve or one repender reserve and get their best training ever. That maybe even muscularly dependent for you. You say, Luke, if I push my pecks to be on failure, they just don't fucking eat, and it's awful. And I just never get anything on it. But for my quads, if I don't go to failure pretty constantly, they don't grow much and I don't see a whole lot of change. So number five is not going close to failure. As just a categorical principle, you apply to everything. So experiment going too failure. And beyond as an advanced athlete to make sure you learn your body well enough to know that if there is light at the end of the tunnel for you in failure, that you're at least doing it. And if there's not light at the end of the tunnel, you at least fucking really tried. And it didn't fucking work. So you can back away and say, I'm not going to go to failure because I don't need that shit. Lastly, point number six, not learning your body's intricacies well enough by the time you advance, certainly a few years into being advanced, you have to know the exercises that you prefer to do. The techniques that you do on the exercises, the recovery abilities that you have so you know how much is too much or how much is not enough. Frequency is that you best respond to and are sort of best for your joint synonectative tissues, frequencies that are good enough for your muscles, but not so much that you can't recover. And of course, volume landmarks, minimum effective volume and maximum recovery volume, at the very least is something you should have an idea of why. Because your advance, you have to be an expert on your own training at this point. Very few things should surprise you in training. And your plans should be pretty logical and pretty satin stone. I didn't say completely satin stone. You should have a real fucking good idea of what you're doing. If you say your advanced, but you walk into the gym and you have no idea what the fucking you're going to do. And you get on the lag press and it takes you through your four sets to even figure out where to put your feet, holy fucking shit. You've just been training for a long time. You were not advanced. Show me an advanced lifter. And we've had lots of these folks, luckily on the RP channel. Doing workouts will be like, hey, I'm sure what a leg press looks like. They get on there. They set their feet, they grab the handles, they breathe in, and they fucking super crush it, ultra depth, and each replica's the same or like, what? We're gonna have deadly dick to teach you because you know it all. That should be what you're striving for as an advanced lifter. I'm not gonna say this. I'll say it. All the pro body builders, all this uncharid. Many pro body builders that are advanced. If you watch them train, you're like, why they're making beginner mistakes? Because they're not fucking really advanced. They just have really good genetics and they take lots of drugs and they're really hard workers and they've done this over. Two or one or two decades. And voila, there you have it. But to truly earn the title of not making any mistakes as an advanced person, you should seek to know your body ultra well. If you tell me, hey, Dr. Mike, if I put you in a skull crush or set up, how would the technique work? I fucking know. For myself, not for other people necessarily, but for me, say, hey, what brand of legpress do you prefer? Oh my God, I am so glad you asked. I have all the things in the world to say about that. What is your maximum recoverable volume for XYC muscle group? I can give you at least a thought. If you don't know yourself well, how are you going to navigate the intricacies of making gains as an advanced person? Where we know it's no longer hammering the fucking ale the biggest hammer in the room, it's much more of a precision guided task. All right, in order to be precise, needs to know your environment and that means know your body. So learn, learn, learn, pay attention. Don't overthink the shit. Think it just enough to where it gives you a nice logical conclusion that works in the real world. Take that little piece of knowledge stuff it away and continue to build around it. And sooner or later, you'll be the man that new too much and you'll be running around and in the French and English tunnel and you're having like a silence superfights with other agents because they want to get in your head and get your training knowledge. So they can build the perfect zombie army of body builders. See you guys next time.

You guys, do you want to find out why steroids are now turning young men into dangerous insels stay tuned for the action news tonight? Right now! Dr. Mike here for our peace strength, the daily beast that emblem of journalistic fidelity, just kidding, I don't really really be sure they have some fine stuff on there, featuring article by freed lance writer named Steffi Cow, Steffi did a fine job. But what I want to do today is open up this article, we're going to read the whole article together. I know that sounds crazy, but the article is just not that long, and can commonly make almost no good points whatsoever. I kid, sort of, let's get to it. It's called the mass monster. The antibiotics steroid trend below, as our other performance enhancers, is increasingly going mainstream thanks to Jim Bros. swapping drug recommendations between reps, not between sets Scott, between reps. Like, hey man, you got to try it. Equate EQ, because the red blood cell thing is pretty good. Fuck outta here. And the growing prominence of bodybuilding influence, sirs, oh sorry, are they're crying and the growing prominence of bodybuilding influencers, cricket sound skylight, oh, who are open about using it. Oh, it's true that interest in trend is pretty high. Mostly for meme stuff, almost no one who shares trend memes and for trend laws actually uses trend, trend uses incredibly rare still higher than we'd like it to be, but nonetheless not a huge problem. And the antibiotics steroid trend below is absolutely not called the mass monster. Scott, have you ever heard that in your entire life? Never heard that. It's insane. A mass monster is a person who maybe used some trend, but not even. It describes an individual. So again, this tells me like the person who wrote this article, maybe like just didn't Google for long enough, all due respect. It was a fine attempt to article, I'm moving across social media, extreme images, a fitness are highlighted and idolized. Online now more than ever before. So there are more people online than ever before. There are more subcultures and interest communities and niche communities online than ever before. But like you could say that same thing about every sort of community, Scott, the growing proliferation of Etsy knitting communities is skyrocketing, straight to our teenagers brains. Is there any good reason presented so far that this is some sort of pandemic? Absolutely not. Many of the quote-unquote, swall men featured have grown their seven figure social media following Scott. This is a personal tack on me as an article. This is oddly specific. Have grown their seven figure social media following out of prominence in the powerlifting and bodybuilding worlds. Despite the fact that they remain controlled substances under the FDA's jurisdiction. Stair abuse is illegal in some competitions of the former and socially accepted in both. Technically speaking, it's incorrect to say that they're illegal or illegal in competition. It's allowed in diss loud as competitions don't write laws or sorry, federations don't write laws, but that's fairly good. Very good. So far so good. The use of anabolic steroids and other performance enhancers has long been an open secret in elite gym culture. That's for sure true. That's a very good point. Like people don't use, but people use everyone kind of knows everyone uses, but sort of no one uses. This is very well-fraised. Today, it's becoming increasingly common among young men. So there was a link to this claim and it turns out that the link doesn't quite tell a full story. It looks like, according to the most recent update of the monitoring the future study, which is a monitoring drug use among high school students and has been for a really long time. Lifetime, anabolic, and generic steroid use is basically has been hovering around one to three percent for 12th graders with no sustained upward surge in the last decade. So increasingly common among young men as like, uh, bereft of evidence, I would say. Yes, there's widespread steroid use in various gym cultures, but like every teen on trend, vibe is just pure hype. It's increasingly common among young men in part due to the new wave of mind bogglingly muscular fitness content creators. It's almost certainly true. When you have a lot of fitness content creators, they take steroids, they talk about a great steroids are, and you can look like me. Yeah, sure, steroid use is expected to go up. But at the same time, we have to understand that a lot of this is demand driven. You have to ask a question first is like, why are influencers who are muscular even being looked at? Like if you're a super muscular freak, like why do so many men attract themselves to you to try to see what's, it's all about? So there's at least as big of a part of the story here, which really wasn't super disgusting this article of like, well, I think like, you know, males tend to want to be more muscular. And so if they're influencers pushing like, you know, you that'll collect the latest kind of pink purse if you're a guy, it just probably wouldn't sell super well because most guys are stuck on instrument, purses and interesting pink purses. Some are, and that's cool. It's going to be a small-ish community. But at the end of the day, it's kind of like, yeah, maybe there's this kind of like super propagandaizing effect of all these crazy masculine hypersphere influencers. I'm sure that has some effect, but I think the majority of the effect is probably like, that's the demand side of the equation pushing that up. So I want to see that kind of stuff. That's how people get famous on YouTube, by the way. You can't get famous on YouTube unless people want to see your shit. So I think this is a little bit of backwards causation here, but you just say it's partial. So I really like that part. And the craze is expanding the reach of an all-male echo chamber where bodybuilding and weightlifting have been tied into misogynistic far-right views. Scott, I knew it. We were all Nazis to begin with. All right. So I'm going to be pedantic just for laws. Technically, it's just lifting weights or weight training, formally the sports of bodybuilding and weightlifting, which is also known as Olympic weightlifting snatch and clean and jerk. They're competitive sports with almost no political overlap. And then she says bodybuilding and weightlifting have been tied into misogynistic far-right you'd like, if you had to ask me as a scientist, we might have thinker as train scientist, what tied into means in a causal, correlative landscape of associations, I would not be able to give you an answer. What exactly does tied into mean? Like does that mean that there's a correlation? It just so happens that some people involved in lifting weights also happen to be, you know, have misogynistic far-right views? Is it that the lifting is causing misogynistic far-right views? Is it misogynistic far-right views or causing people to go lift weights? It's it or just no relation whatsoever. Like our shark attacks being caused by ice cream consumption because both go up in the summer, like no, both are summer activities and people going water in the summer, and also they get ice cream. The tied into makes it seem like, oh, something's going on here. But we actually have absolutely no idea what's going on here. Potentially there's just nothing going on here at all. I believe there are actually zero misogynistic views described in this article and attributed to anyone. So like we neither have data on alt-right conversion of body builders. We don't have a description of how that relationship works. Nor do we have examples of like, okay, who are the alt-right body builder people that say toxic shit? Pretty impressive so far, Huskah. Like, that's wild. You can really just write anything. You can really just write anything. It's great. Quaid age 28 who asked to be identified by his first name due to concerns of employer retaliation. Begin weightlifting. I'm correcting this to weight training. By the way, Quaid was not doing snatches and clean and jerks through as far as we know. After he came across bodybuilding discussion threads on 4chan and the controversial, now defunct bodybuilding.com blog. Scott, I thought 4chan was a place people went to go get things that were not allowed to say anymore that sounded a lot like PDF file stuff. Okay. Who the ghost of 4chan for bodybuilding advice? Scott does not even really any humans on there. What the hell is going on? Like, that's the guy she picked. She's like bodybuilding has a right wing zealot problem. Like, okay, let's find out someone who started bodybuilding by going to 4chan. Like, what? If you go to 4chan for bodybuilding advice, we can almost definitively rule out that steroids did not cause your insult them. Because remember, the title of the article is why steroids are turning meth and then into dangerous insults. Okay. Go to 4chan for bodybuilding advice equals your 100% already an insult. Go start bodybuilding. You haven't taken steroids yet. Still an insult, by the way. ostensibly takes steroids at some part in your bodybuilding journey. And then you're now a stero taking insult. But this completely violates the premise of the article, which is that steroids turned you into a dangerous insult. This is backwards. Quaid was quoted as saying, the bodybuilding community has an oversized impact on internet culture that's not really appreciated. How do we know that? Like, there's no measurement given of how big internet culture is, how big bodybuilding internet culture is, and what the interrelationship is between there. But you guys quaid age 28 is a good enough source for this kind of article. Bodybuilding.com helps set the tone for today's Manus Fear. Ska, I can't do this. Are you with think like Peter aty a Jordan Peterson, Andrew Huberman, Joe Rogan, Ben Shapiro, like just they got their teeth sunk in with early bodybuilding.com for him to eat. Are you kidding me? All right. Okay, I digress. Bodybuilding is the first digital radicalizer of the 21st century. Said Jamie Cohen and assistant professor of media studies at Cooney Queen's College. Like, I feel the vibes that like online lifting communities can maybe radicalize some people for sure. But the first digital radicalizer of 21st century, like you guys alkada used to recruit people in the early 2000s on the internet to say it's at all a digital radicalizer is already a stretch. But the first is just like pure, total, just wilds, not specular, just comes about as close to nonsense as you can get something without just surely calling it nonsense. Jamie Cohen has had firsthand experience clawing himself out of the right wing internet fitness wormhole. What is the size and shape of the right wing internet fitness wormhole? And how much friction do you need to generate and muscular force to crawl and claw your way out of it? So my question is this, do you by clawing? I mean, like, just don't go to 410 anymore. All jokes aside, you guys just know wormhole. Claw out like dramatic much come on people. Cohen was radicalized at a time when viral right wing pieces would make their way around chat rooms and forums. Somebody stop the internet. People are sharing viral content of a certain political meaning. But now instead of one man grooming one man, whoa, how the hell did we get to grooming? It's now one man like Jordan Peterson grooming millions. Okay, two things. First of all, most bodybuilders, lifters in general, want nothing to do with politics of any kind. Scott, remember all those times we train pro bodybuilders, dragons layer and get into in-depth political nuanced discussions with them? Thousands, literally thousands of times. Thousands of times. We got in a more political discussions with bodybuilders than there are people in the IFB being pro league. Almost nobody cares about politics, legitimately in the world and for sure in fitness and for sure in bodybuilding. So the idea of the bodybuilding kind of is a big part of this right wing culture is just absolute nonsense. There are bodybuilders in right wing culture, God bless them, right wing, left wing, all of them respect. But like, this is not true to say that bodybuilding somehow like super-and-grain in this. It's just, it's just false. Secondly, this is the part that crushed me. If Jordan Peterson is in bodybuilding steroid culture, color me insane. Couldn't she have picked like her the guy, the co-in guy, couldn't have picked like, I don't know Andrew Tate? Look, he's not a bodybuilder either. Little closer. A little like he's involved in sports. Jordan Peterson is like grooming people to become right wing. Bodybuilders and somehow that involves with getting them to become in-sellabot from steroid use. I just don't know what we're talking about anymore. Good news, the person editing this article didn't either. And then Jamie Cohen is is is is is quoted as saying, the timeless part of bodybuilding is that it's self-care. You can even call it gender-affirming care. Yeah, that's a zinger. It's nice. It is self-care. It is gender-affirming for males. I'm not sure what it is for females though, but being a Jack ladies school, so I'm down. A hyper-focused fitness space offers community, routine, and visually measurable goals that many millennial and gen Z men feel are lacking in their broader lives. The disenfranchisement of young men has not been managed well and we're living through the reactionary movement. There's some truth to that. I guess young men feel a little bit left out, but if improving yourself in a way that makes you healthier and less apt to be violent because you're too tired from training is reactionary. Like, I'm here for it, I guess. It's not to say that all men who wait lift end up storming the capital. Scott, this is a direct quote. Okay, thanks for spelling that out. That's nice. I wonder what fraction of the January 6th insurrectionists were actually lifters? Scott, I'm guessing it's zero. Steffi goes on. North at the act of bodybuilding is necessarily dangerous. Very true. That's nice. That's very safe. But it's focused on eternal self-improvement and eternal dissatisfaction is easily exploited by content creators to pedal edgy, extreme-est ideology, to a captive audience increasingly disillusioned by the mainstream. Scott, remember when you log onto an internet website and you're a health captive by it? I hope it's time. The websites on the internet. Guys, it's somewhat true to say you're a captive audience when you're like in a movie theater and they show you ads. I mean, technically you can also leave, but like, you're there for the movie so you can't look away. When you go online to look at stuff, you are not in any sense of the word captive. This is just using extreme terms where they do not belong none of this should as true. I'm sorry. Today, it's a much easier passage to the alt-right and it's much more coded. It's more of an aesthetic than it is in ideology. A good luck figuring that out. I have no idea what that means and I'm really trying here. I just must not understand code well enough. Scott, it's so well coded. You can't even tell when you're being seduced into the alt-right and maybe you're not even being seduced. That's how well coded it is. A Yad Ahmad, a classic right-wing name, of course. He's clearly a white nationalist. In age 19, began lifting three years ago. He's in a cutting period right now, eating plain, protein-heavy meals, and lifting five days per week, my man taking steroids has crossed his mind a few times. A few older men he knows of the gym have told him that they're juicing and he's well aware it's a big thing among his peers. But he's studying medicine and concerned about side effects. This is awesome. The Yad's a smart guy. The side effects can run the gamut of severe acne, ankle swelling. How does that make the list? Jesus Christ. High blood pressure, aggression, delusion, depression, liver damage, risk of stroke and a variety of heart issues according to the Cleveland Clinic. This is your standard copypasta that you just went and got off the Cleveland Clinic. I'm saying it's not wrong but it misses a ton of new ones. We have a bunch of videos about this by the way drug type, the dose of the drug, the duration you're taking it, what ancillary drugs you take to combat the side effects or make them worse. And genetic predisposition. Most people have some bad of a time with steroids, some people have a great time and almost no side effects, some people have almost all side effects and no positive effects. It really runs the gamut. It's not like you're going to take these in one or a percent chance to get a mess. While the OG bodybuilding.com users often use to focus on getting ripped for sex and lots of it, that's not my quote, that's their quote. Ahmad said that's not really a part of his goals or motivation for most Jim Bros today. It may be true to say that no one who's ever been on the bodybuilding.com forums has ever had sex. No offense fellas, all jokes for the love of God. Pretend sex a lot of that definitely. When I first started lifting Ahmad said, it was definitely a factor. But I have so many friends who just don't lift it all and can get more girls, fundamental attribution error, Ahmad, your unscolution no better than that. I don't really think it's the number one factor that girls see in guys. That's super true. Getting in shape helps if you really ought to shape, but really kind of only at the margins. Self-confidence works really well, but you need to lift a really long time and really cultivate self-confidence about 10 other ways for that to really transfer. So this is actually really good. Men go to the gym for other men. Ice team meme. That means you gain. Said Steven Lee, 26, who began lifting seven years ago. Most of the external validation Steven says is almost exclusively for other men. That's absolutely true, but there's this other thing where women tend to be attracted more towards whichever men other men look up to more. So there's a secondary thing by which if you get the esteem of the men around you, the women in your social circle are going to find you substantially more attractive. People who lift a lot know that having a really just huge physique or being super lean is not that attractive to the average woman fact. But they're doing it more for their own body image sake. Yeah, I would say this ends up being like nine out of ten times like, why guys who stick to lifting for long-term do it is just for themselves. Lee added, it's considered almost impolite to judge someone for choosing to start juicing. Someone taking steroids is still likely putting an hours of the gym, eating clean, and putting in the work he argued. That's really cool. Scott, actually included like a very reasonable quote. In 2023, the National Institute for Health released a study warning dermatologists to identify acne full men ends as a potential indicator for the rising use of animal steroids among men, which they linked to pressures of social media. I have no idea why this is in this article. They just need in more stuff about acne and young men and steroids, I guess. Where are we left with with all of this? Let's do a little bit of a verdict situation here. Some good points on the steroids stuff and on the extreme stuff. But the connection between lifting culture and the right wing, which is look fruitful. There's definitely some connection there. It was basically just missing almost entirely here. And here's the biggest part to me. Like not once did the article attempt to or successfully lay out a case for how or why steroids are turning men into dangerous insults. A lot of data free hand waving going on. And she's like, yeah, this is a thing. And we're supposed to just believe it. A lot of cherry picking going on just like, hey, we're going to find someone that says this. Good enough. Zero peer reviewed research. Zero deep explanation about academic source. I've been quoted for plenty of articles before. So maybe I'm a clown. I'm almost certainly am. But it's kind of like, yeah, at least a lot to be desired. How much upside versus downside doesn't article discuss? Because if you're trying to present the reality of the world, which is like, the sole function of journalism, maybe the news. And you're trying not to be biased, which is like the number two priority of journalism. Number one is tell people things as they are. Number two is don't contort. Do have to check to see, is this topic being treated fairly? Are its upsides and downsides being discussed? That doesn't mean 50, 50. But it means like, you got to talk about like, well, maybe men seeking respect from the selling in online fitness communities are mostly becoming healthier, becoming calmer, more respectful, learning diligence, learning organization, learning benefits of hard work, developing physiques, to give them more self confidence, learning how to be kind and compassion with a new strength, and joining the ranks of moderate, a very politically astute movements, which is probably 90% of what's going on with lifting and probably most of that political stuff doesn't even apply. But when you're going after just like, wha, teeny little needle and hay stack, you're like, all the shit flows into a right, all right wing cess. And you're just like the article never acknowledges the benefits of TRT that's clinically prescribed in the right dosage. It never talks about the mental health benefits of resistance training and how that's actually really good for young men to do. This is just journalism, one-on-one imbalance. And so at the end of the day, like throw away your note pad and your excel sheets. The RP-high-perchrophy app has all of your workouts displayed in one place with guided videos on exercise techniques and a program that evolves to better suit your needs, the longer you use the app, all you have to do is follow the plan right on your phone and get the gains. Click on the link in the description of this video to get started. Can you just like, dough, better? Uh, it's my leftist bias request. If you wanted to find out why steroids are turning men into dangerous in cells, you would not have found it out from this article. Now, if you are a person of any politics, we love and respect you. Welcome to the channel. If you are involuntarily celibate, welcome to the channel. You guys are great. If you're dangerous, specifically like Michael Jackson's version of the Angel of Scott Marbleess on, Michael Jackson was great, wasn't he? And a very safe, I might add, all hits, only hits. Welcome to the channel, Dangerous People as well. Let us know what you think about this. Let us know if you ever have any wacky articles you want us to cover and see if they're true or not or whatever. And I've been Dr. Mike. I'll see you guys next time.

Let's go. Big push. Yes. That's it. Good stop. Good stop. Wow. You guys need to pull it underneath. Right? There we go. Jimmy House. Bill like a brick effin house. He shows up to the gym today and I'm like just kind of walking past. And he's like, get out of my way bro. And I was like, I'm sorry. What? So he knee barred me and my knee flew off my shit because he's a black belt and your jutsu. No joke. And I was in the bathroom. He was like, oh, at least he's on a touch of drugs. Stupid drug addict. And he's like, I'm actually drug free. And I was like, can you just leap? Why you in the bathroom? I mean, here crying. I locked the door. He ripped the door off the hinges. But that as he was about to do a final finishing blow. A Mazo aka Jared, father, I feed pro teleported in, picked up Jimmy, teleported him to the moon, let him cool off for a bit, teleported him back, couple seconds of out of breath. And then he was like, why don't we just, hey, let's just do a push workout so we can get chest. We really messed up maybe a bit of tri steps and everyone was like, okay, fine. So let's just do that right now. Let's just go do that. Exercise number one is the cambered bar bench press. Looks like that except for the camber. Really tough exercise. Critical to descend slowly and take a pause so you maximize that stretch under load. You might not be able to touch your chest. If you can't go for it, but if you can't, just go as deep as you can and as you're coming down, you want to reach your chest up to meet the bar, which means you have a nice arch in your back, but from with planted on the seat, feet really stable to generate a lot of power and stability. And then you're going to go, we're going to be doing sets of all five to 15 reps, feet to 12 more like. And should have been going to get crazy. Tax are going to be pretty destroyed after this and then probably another pack exercise. Let's do it. One more, big arch. My mark. Go on. I call it, reach that chest. Oh yeah. Mark, yeah. Great. Thank you. It regards to minimizing the explosion. That's just more like time under 10 changes for safety. Okay. Exploding out of that big of a stretch could be the last exploding you do with a full pack. Okay. Sounds good. This is strong, especially with this variation. You want to ease it up and then accelerate. Okay. I've got that. At the bottom is cool with regular bench, but with that big of a stretch, it'd be something probably you'll be saved. But the fractional probability of injury goes up. It's important to have your pecs still attach to your body. Right. Definitely for powerlifting because you'll never press heavy ever again. And for sure for bodybuilding because the pecs look weird when they come apart. That was fucking great. Thanks. You doing any more top sets? Who the dumb? Do a scare on your side. I'm scared. I'm scared. I'm scared. You do it. You do it. You do it. You do it. You do it. I forgot to tell you. Yes, man. Okay, it was natural, but I went home and I just fucked it. Bye. Yeah, thanks for the first day. The bottle of testosterone oil. Yeah. Wait, wait, wait. That's why it thought it goes in the eyes. 100%. Then you can see. You told me that you're more intelligent. You told me that you're more intelligent. You told me that you're more intelligent. You told me that you're more intelligent. You told me that you're more intelligent. Yes. Good chest. Yes, one more. Let's go. Oh, shit. One more, Jimmy. All fucking day. Big chest. Reach. One more. You got it, you got it. Reach off. Yeah. Oh, that was beautiful. Yes, yes, girl. How are you? Beautiful. Wow. Good enough on the pressing. Yeah. Let's do some dumbbells. Mike isn't training today because he did the two and a half to one paradigm. Two and a half weeks of hard training. And decided he needed the deal a week. So he's a steel loading all week after two weeks of nothing. I'm going to be on the other side. See the barbell shoulder press is not an exercise really to me today. I'm just sitting down because I'm tired. You guys real talk, I'm going to get an old. I hate when people say their shut up old man, still got a train. Anyway, ran to side. Incoming dumbbell presses hit the particular portion of the pecks. The cues we're going to be looking for here are big reach up and we want the dumbbells to come to the outside of the shoulders. I did a lot of GDTS today. So I can't move my fucking shoulder. But it would look something like that. Big reach. Pause at the bottom. That super deep stretch sets up 10 to 15, 10 to 20. Anything less is going to end up being a requisite of stability for that low of reps. That high of a load. That we can't achieve with dumbbells. Dumbbells aren't inherently unstable and thus better for slightly higher reps. Because the lower up training is only best when you can get stable enough to produce maximum forces. Because lower reps are producing maximum forces. Because with dumbbells you really can't get that stable. That sets up 5 to 10 for the dumbbell press. Not the smartest thing in the world. Good control. Reach up. Deep pause. Yeah. One more at least. Reach up. Deep. Oh shit. Hell yeah. That's good enough. Thank you. Look at how big as fuck Jimmy is. Big ass, pecs. Big ass arms. Did you imagine a world in which you walked up to him before his workout and built it. You do it in Climbup. You're like, how much you press bro? What are you thinking he's going to say 131-41-50? He says 70. Proper execution. Good technique. Slowest centric. Deep pause. The outside of the chest. Needs you don't have to dumbbell press. Ultra fucking heavy. And you still get these maximum, amazing effects. Minimum stress on your joints. Maximum stress on the muscles. It is fucking humbling. The ego will not like it. Yes. Yes. Oh crap. Ooh, that extra milk. Oh amazing. Oh yep. Big ring. Deep. Yes. One more. One more. One more. Chess. Chess right here. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. Huge Chess. Yes. One more. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. That's it. That's it. That's it. Boom. Thank you. Let me tell you guys about the RP Hyper-Trophy app with over 28 preset programs already in the app. You can choose to make your own. You can modify an existing program or you can just run the programs. Exactly as they were written by eight person on this app programs. Everything for you. Exercises weights sets reps frequency. The whole thing. After every single workout on every single week, the app adjusts to your unique parameters with every single input. We have over 250 exercises in the app with detailed video tutorial links to every single one. You never have to be confused about technique or form ever again. Guessing right now you're pretty interested in the app. Download the RP Hyper-Trophy app today. Alright. Last exercise for today's push workout is people try set push downs. Super-setted to some close grip push ups. I think we'll try a deficit. Let me see if I get some blocks for a sub-fifc push-up with. Ouch. Pain is impending. Set of 15 to 20 here on a first set hopefully. And then all the way down. How about three or four sets? Really get some good tri set volume. One thing you can take away from some of this advice is when you do chest first but you have a chest tri set session. You want to give good stimulus to tri sets. A lot of times it will be like three sets of chest in the first section. Three sets in the second and then like four or five sets for tri sets in the last. Why? Because you're already tired. But you can make up some stimulus by just doing a higher volume of work at the end. Give that some thought. Let's go do these push downs. You. Yep. One more. Good. Got any body. Down the body. Yes. As if you're going to do another. Okay. More. Go. Go. Go. Go. Go. Yep. Strict. More Jimmy. Deep. Let's go. Big push. Yes. That's it. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Good. Wow. You guys need to pull it already. Right. There we go. So terrible. I stopped there. So jerk. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. I didn't understand how far away. Okay. Oh. Oh. Oh. My shot, man. Oh. Yeah. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Big push. Shoot. Finish up strong. Oh. Oh. Oh. Shoot. Amazing. Right away. That's it. No. No. No. Let's go. Yeah. Oh. Right away. Go. Slow. One more. Slow. Up. What the fuck was that? Lock it out. Jimmy. All the way. One wrap. There. Good. And. Woo. Like this. When. Good. Like this. Good. Good. And. Woo. Good. Like this. That was awesome. That was awesome. Thank you. Amazing. Amazing. Amazing. You know what they say is get you a man that can blank. We get you a man that can do slower control these centrics and my rep. Try to set push up. Super set. You'll be eating good. Got to. Got to. Man. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I think my biggest takeaway from the day was the alteration on the dumbbell presses as far as. For one kind of taking my power. I think set up out of the equation. Not being as. Driven with my legs. But still using my legs to get to upper body position that allows for more information. Like I was telling you with the bigger dumbbells. I generally press neutral. Try to get down lower. But then after talking to Jared. And some of the alterations that he makes still go. Really flared. But not necessarily let the dumbbells get in the way. That's something I'm going to take home for sure. And then going from something like a isolated cable push down. Going to true failure with that. And then going to more of a compound bodyweight movement to put push even more volume to the triceps like the push up. That was a huge takeaway for me too. And just understanding what true failure of a muscle group is. Is something that I think I've gathered. Blask a couple of days. So I appreciate you guys. That awesome. You did incredible. Thank you. Jared you're looking big. Me. Kind of washed up. Don't. I'm done lifting forever. We're never going to be back. There's a last video on this channel. It's been real. We'll see you guys never. Peace. Can we ever deal with thoughts like thoughts you shouldn't have. Maybe like jack and off and like think about a girl. But then like can't transcend their guy at the end. Oh, your mother. You're not. You really like it. Grandma. Of course not honey.

Hey folks, Dr. Mike Isr. Tell here for Renaissance Periodization. Glute Growth Program. You wanted it. You just weren't ready to admit it. And now you're finally rubbing the tears from under your eyes. You hit a namaste moment. You're here listening to how to specialize on glutes. It's okay. Join the club is 2020. Whatever glutes are in. But why would we be specializing on them? Could we just train glutes in the concert of an overall well-balanced program? The answer is yes. But there's a couple of reasons why you could want to specialize under glutes. You just want your glutes to grow in relation to everything else. So you may think that your quads look pretty cool. Your hamstrings look nice. But data your glutes are just a little small. And if they were bigger, everything would be in harmony. And guy of the earth got us would, you know, bless you in her own special way. Which I'm sure is sexual. By sure, I mean hope. Number two is if you do want bigger glutes, altering your program to limit the focus. Some muscles can make the glutes bigger. Because somebody could just say, well, specializing you just do more for the glutes in the same forever in the else. Yes. But if you reduce everything else, the glutes get even more recovery adapt of resource. And then they can really grow and take off. And so you can just train everything normally. But at some point, you'll realize that prioritizing is a good idea. I begs the question of when do I know prioritization is something that I'm going to need? When do I know a specialization is something I'm really going to need versus just training all around? Question is this. With all of the muscles that you're training glutes included, are you able to take each muscle close to its own performance limit towards the end of a mesocle? Like the muscle itself is what's crapping out on me. My overall feeling is that I'm feeling great. But I just can't match my PRs and the muscle itself is tired. And so I'm beat up, it just needs a break. That's great. That's how you know you've taken a muscle all the way to where it's meant to go as far as stimulating growth. But if the fatigue is systemic, your biceps are ready to go, but you're so goddamn tired from doing leg curls and squats and pull ups and all the stuff that you're doing in your program, then no amount of training your biceps hard is going to fix that because all of your hard bicep training at that point is just junk falling. You aren't able to train hard enough to stimulate your biceps because the systemic fatigue is too late. And if you push hard enough to do that, the systemic fatigue rise even more and it's kind of like a self-cans like an ominon. So in that case, if you're not able to train everything with due diligence, let's say you've got eight major muscles with the body, you're only able to train seven on front burner. If you add in an eighth one, everything kind of collapses, you need to take out the eighth one, put it on maintenance and say, okay, sevens all I can train. And at that point, you know that you can prioritize specialise on seven muscles at the same time. But as you grow bigger and stronger, it may be less than that. Top-if-be-profile-physics can probably only prioritize really put their front burner specialise on half of their muscle groups at the same time, with the other half going on maintenance volume, much less than all, maybe a third of the total volume that they used to be able to do. And remember that doesn't shrink those muscles, it just keeps them about the same size while your glutes, for example, are growing and then later on you can go back to normal training. So, if we're choosing to specialize, we have to understand what that really means. That's all in context for the glutes, but it works the same for every other muscle there is. It's first, specificity. You don't want to choose good exercises for the glutes. You want to choose great ones. Exercise, modalities, drop sets, super sets, et cetera. And repetition ranges that preferentially stimulate the target muscle. So for example, if low rep sets of lunges really Friday glutes, but they don't hit your quads much, but higher rep lunges really hit your quads and your glutes are not nearly as hit, if you really serious about glutes specialization, you're going to do most of your lunging and the lower partition range that really target your glutes. All of our best weapons forward. And because we want to use all of our best weapons on refresh, we're going to follow the idea of prioritization, which in any given session with multiple exercises, you want to train glutes relatively early in that session. Many days of the week, it should be first in that session. If you're really serious about changing something, you've got to do it fresh. Like if you are an elite artist and you want to really get your game up to where you're an unbelievable artist, you probably don't want to practice your craft when you're fucking dog tired from the rest of the day of work and other art you do for work and not your passion projects. You probably want to wake up early in the morning and get that shit done right when you're focused to make sure it's the best quality work. Same way if you want to train your glutes, you can't say all I do my normal shit and then at the end of a workout I do three sets of frog pumps or something. You got to do glutes first, maybe second in most of the days of training and what you do glutes, that way they're always getting great workouts. Frequency. Generally speaking, higher frequencies work, little bit better than lower frequencies. Trajic for me to see people who are trying to get their glutes bigger, but only train glutes once a week. At least twice a week, maybe even three or four times is much better. Whenever your glutes are recovered, you should be training them again, generally speaking. Now, glutes are a big muscle and they are involved in big heavy movements that have a large amplitude and ton of weight used, the total work is really high and the systemic fatigue is high as well. So when you are interested in really specializing on your glutes and going fucking hard, you should probably consider tuning down the volume to maintenance volume or a little bit above that for many other muscles of the body, especially other lower body muscles. If you are training your hamstrings like crazy, maybe you'll also train your glutes hard. If you're training your quads like crazy, fuck, unfortunately a lot of the times is when your glutes are going to be ready and recovered and good to go, your quads might be tired and sore from the quad work and then your glutes never really have a fresh take. So yes, you can train glutes and quads and hamstrings all really hard at the same time, but if you really, really, really want to put all your best weapons and then give the biggest glutes you can during the time that you're specializing on glutes, I would go maintenance volume with hamstrings, maintenance volume with quads, it's actually quite easy because the glutes involve a lot of those muscles anyway. Not that many exercises or sets directly for those muscles, more work on the glutes, so not only are they getting ton of work, but they're fresh and it's high quality work. All right, so when you are building your glute plan just for one mesocycle, consider a training frequency of three or four glutes, sessions per week, glutes are big and they're not really, so you can even start with two sessions a week or three, I wouldn't start with four, eventually you can work up to it. Ideally, of course, you train them fresh at the beginning of every leg day and on their own day, that's three days a week, the glutes can be the first thing you train, awesome. As far as exercises, lunges are incredible for the glutes because they allow that super crazy stretch of the glute when that lead lead, leg hits the floor, a foot or two away from you, that is the real money maker, lunges are incredible, there's a trillion different variety of lunges, make sure you are stable, make sure you are lunging very deep. One of the lunges is actually the Bulgarian split squat, which is just another type of lunges far as I'm concerned, that's also great for the glutes and the deeper you can go the bigger the stretch, the better that is a really good core for glute work, in addition to deep, wide stance work, which hits the glutes really well. So, wide stance, sumo deficit deadlifts, wide stance, sumo squats, there is a technique alteration, which Jared Fathers has talked about at many of our videos in which we train females for their glutes in which how you execute those exercises can actually make your glutes a huge limiting factor and the other way to execute those exercises means the glutes are not a blink of an impact or you have to use way more weight to do the same thing. So, I would clue in on those, potentially we'll have Jared do a little mini glute seminar and how to arrange your technique to hit your glutes, but if you do that properly, the deep wide stance work also works incredibly well and of course hip thrusts are very good exercises for glutes. That's some kind of magic that's necessarily categorically better than exercises. The good thing about hip thrust is they really one of the only exercises that emphasizes that peak contraction at the top of a glute. You guys ever had sex for a long time, it's all peak contractions, and then you legit have a huge glute pump. I should stop by accident. To those of you who have never had referred to what pretend sex would probably be like and then get a pretend glute pump. Someday you'll have the real thing. I promise. Maybe, maybe not. At least with a robot, hopefully soon. That's my plan, all of my sex is theoretical. So, hip thrusts are great, lunges are great, some other options good. We'll talk about a sec, but why stance work for glutes is a really really good idea. Set numbers, again glutes are not special and a magical or a most everyday muscle, two to six sets per session for glutes. Whatever gets you a decent pump, and a feeling like you worked out a bit, and then go slowly from there, based week after week upon your ability to recover and get sore, etc. I will say that if you haven't done walking lunges ever or in months, one set of lunges close to failure will give you what I like to call items, instant onset muscle soreness, your glutes get crampy and fucking weird, and if you do any more sets in that, you'll have noms in your glutes for like, I don't know, or we can have for two, which is really stupid. So highly effective exercises like lunges start with just one set and stop. Literally one set, that's your whole glute workout. Next week you need two sets, and three, etc. It's something that's so some of the exercises you really really need these into, and lunges are really an example of that. Loading of repetitions, whatever it gets you your best SFRs, which how do we tell? Tons of tension in the glutes, tons of burn in the glutes, close to failure, great pump in the glutes, it makes the glutes really tired and it able to perform, and it makes the glutes either really fatigued feeling, perturbed feeling, and or gets some actual delayed onset muscle soreness. That's how we can tell where our best SFRs are, while at the same time minimizing how much joint and connective tissue disruption we feel. There's a big difference between the best SFRs for the glutes, and you want to do. For example, every other girl in America seemingly hip thrusts 405 pounds. But last I checked their glutes aren't that big. How come? Well it's easy to leverage the exercise of the hip thrust in such a way that may not feel ideal for your connective tissues, but you can lift a shit load of weight in, and it's in the 5 to 10 rep range so you can really lift a lot of weight. But if you had to be honest with yourself and ask after one of those sets, how do your glutes feel? Most people's answer would be like, I don't know, they feel fine, like they were trained, but that exactly getting in there really is happening. Well what would they say, if I really had to be honest, I would hold the peak contraction of the hip thrust for one or two seconds. I would do a slow-recentric, I would do sets of you know, 15 to 20 hip thrusts, and then that would fuck me up. Like, lutes would be dead. Well that's the fucking point. And then you might have to use two plates instead of four plates for hip thrusts. You might have to use barbell walking lunges with 25s on each side of the barbell instead of 45s. But it's really cool to be running coalman and do three plates for walking lunges. But the reality is it's just that's out of the cards from most of us. And glutes are muscle in which the technical change in the exercise can really change what is being involved. Remember, anytime you do any kind of hip thrusts motion, your hamstrings, your add-hctors, your quads, your lower back can all help the glutes to some extent carry out that motion. And thus, if you just try to go for max force production, all those muscles will start to help and the glutes won't be working as much anymore relative to the other muscles. So the stimulus rises a little bit for the glutes, maybe not even at all, rises a lot for the other muscles. But the fatigue rises a shit load because now you're lifting a fucking metric ton. Whereas if you really focused on the mind muscle connection for the glutes, really chose a technique that blast the glutes and nothing else, you get a ton of winnings as far as stimulus, very little fatigue to pay for it. The other thing you have to rationalize to yourself is why that girl over there hip thrusts more than you. But bitch gets curious, you just turn to the side and pull your shorts a little bit and she's like, I'm not gonna stop gluteca. See, I speak Spanish too. And I've no idea what I said. But maybe you Spanish speaking folks can translate. And the comments that would be helpful. A little, uh, will Rosetta Stone. I sure hope I said something. We'll make sure you're progressing on track, monitoring and adjusting your workout at all times. So for all that work you're doing, you can be sure you're getting the best results. Anyway, something I overheard Jared Father talking about. In any case, again, same as most other muscles, if you do have an exercise for glutes that is really good in the 5 to 10, I'll run a range greatest of far. And other exercises that are better for higher reps, start the workout with a set of 5 to 10. Like if it's similar, deficit pulls or something. Because you gotta be fresh for heavy, but you don't have to be fresh for light and high rep. Get the heavy done first, light and higher up after. And if you have within the week, maybe three duglute days, do your heavier work earlier in the week, moderate work in the middle of the week. And later in the week, do lighter work, really recover that way. You're joins the connective issues kind of get to recover the entire time and then you get blasted again next time you train heavy. Progress through your plan is going to be very similar. You essentially want to set of baseline volume, which we talked about, sort of two to six sets for each session for the glutes. And then you see you okay, how is the stimulus going and how is my recovery going? So if you feel really strong next workout before the train glutes and you're not, you have no delayed onset, so we're going to certainly feel like that. The next time you do glutes, you can add a set. So if Wednesday, I train glutes Monday and Wednesday, I'm feeling phenomenal. Next Monday, I go from three sets to four sets of glutes. Ideally, you want to heal just before you train glutes again. Train, get trained glutes, get either sore or like pretty fatigued and tired. Like maybe it's not sore but like fuck, I don't. I'm definitely going to underperform with hip thrusts and lunges. By the time you train glutes again, you're just recovered enough to hit that mini PR. You stuff is much volume as you can over time recover from that usually leaves to the best gains while on. If you were sore all the time, if you do lunges on Monday and you're still sore doing hip thrusts on Wednesday, too much, reduce the volume so that you heal on time. We don't want to train when we're sore, on occasion it's okay but it's not something you set up over the long term. Rups and reserve, three reps and reserve, like with anything else to start. And then you progress by two and a half pounds or five pounds on the bar, ten pounds on the bar, whatever it is every week, a little bit on the bar, maybe add a repetition or two here every week so that you're always making things a little tougher over time. Eventually you get failure on stuff. You're not able to match repetitions, d-load, get rid of the fatigue, choose some exercises, repeat another mezzo, voila, that's all the program design. And while we're at it, what would a blue plan look like? I'm just going to show the glute exercises. I've integrated no-quater or hamstring training or anything into this but basically, as Monday, Wednesday Friday, we have a sample plan here right there. Monday, we start with barbell hip thrusts sets of 10 to 15 reps and three RAR and then we do sumo-poss squats for two sets of five to 10 reps. Now hold on a second, sumo-poss squats, great lute exercise but there are five to 10 reps but they're second in the order why thought you said five to 10 reps should be first. In most cases but in some cases the stimulus to fatigue ratio is higher if you pre-exhaust with a lighter exercise, senior nephew go crazy having an compound movement. sumo-squafking, pretty fucking heavy so if leg lutes can be blasted with hip thrusts which don't even affect most of my body, sets of 10 to 15 reps that means my glutes are nice and weak coming in to the actual sumo-squat itself and then what I do the squats, I do my super glute technique and the glutes just don't need that much more to get going. It's like doing some flies before doing some push-ups. If you get through all your flies first and then you do your multiple sets of push-ups, it'll be easier relatively to train your packs versus your triceps because your packs will already be pre-exhausted. Wednesday, okay so we got basically five total sets of lutes on Monday. We come in at Wednesday, we do machine hip thrusts or a glute kick backs. There's some good glute kickback machines. I'm sure we'll say in that for some reason. Afterwards we do sumo-poss deficit deadlifts. Again the deficit means we have to lean over more, we got a huge glute stretch, especially if we do a sumo with the right technique where we charge glutes really far back. It focus all of our energy and bringing our hips back and then underneath us. It's actually mechanically really shitty leverage advantage and your glutes have to eat you out of there at a deep stretch, which means it's very stressful for the glutes. You do those deficit-poss deadlifts like that. Again that's another five sets for glutes on Wednesday, really good stuff. Friday, the abductor machine, I guess it's called the bad girl machine because you open up your legs like that. Some normative sexual implications there. I won't broach. But in any case the opening leg up, that actually is one of the functions of the glutes, not a hugely major function. So you don't want to have your whole routine be the bad girl machine. But it's something good to be pepper in there. It takes care of other parts of the muscle, maybe aren't hit well with other things. So you do that for three sets of 15 to 20 reps and that of course barbell walking lunges, especially great once your glutes have been pre-exhausted. Two sets of 15 to 20 reps. G, that's a really good exercise. Get nice and sore. Take two days to recover. Come back again. Add a few more sets. Reduce the RRs a little bit. Stay in the same rep range as by adding a bit of load. Maybe a few reps here and there. It's week two, week three, we forward center right at the end. We get to a sample final pre-delote week. And there you notice that we're still the same rep range. But everything is a zero RR and the sets have increased substantially. Again, increasing sets is a matter of asking am I recovered enough? And if you say, well, I'm for sure recovered enough. I could definitely do a set and still recover. You go to the exercises that, because remember, it's two exercises per day. So if you're saying okay, my Monday recovery tells me that next Friday I can add a set to my Friday workout. You might look and say okay, I have the abductor machine and barbell walking lunges. Which one of those do I add a set to? The answer is whichever one for you at the time has a better stimulus to fatigue ratio. Not that hard to figure out, you should already know that in your program. You should be like okay, well, what are you doing six sets of abductor machine? There's no fucking way I'm doing another set of that. The answer for that last set will definitely suck, because I'm already psychologically checked out. But I could do another set of barbell lunges. So instead of four sets, I'll do five sets. That's how it works. All right, how long can you specialize 400 lutes? Ideally forever. And actually you can do that. So you can do a whole training block of specialization, three mass cycles in the row. The mass cycles progressively becoming focused on slightly higher reps because of joints and connect officials can't keep up. It's just stronger, stronger, stronger all the time. Potentially increasing the training frequency as your glutes get used to it. And of course the average volume is going to go up as well. And incorporating different movements as the various movements lose their SFR rankings. So barbell walking lunges were a great movement for you. And the first two meadows by the third, they're not so great. And they're kind of weird on your aductor. Then you do some regular, you know, so let's say Bulgarian splits, whites are something with a deficit all as well than as well and then voila, or after a really good start. So exercises that are no longer working replace exercise that are working great. You keep in one whole block, which is three mass cycles, potentially something like 18 to 20 weeks. That's a lot of training. After that, you should do either a four week low volume resensitization phase or a two week active rest phase. And then you can come back and do another block of glutes and just repeat that over and over and over or you can come back and do any kind of normal training because maybe just maybe your glutes are finally big enough. And J. Lowe's insurance people came up to you and they're like, do you need that? And sure, because damn daddy, I finally somebody called me daddy. All right. If you need more information about how to do this, don't worry we've got you covered in the links right below in the description. We have a free exercise video library. We can look up Jared Father training his glutes isn't that a treat just by itself. There's a muscle group training guide, which includes the glutes. So if this video made some sense, but you want something physical to hold on to and read, then we've got that as well. All free. The hypertrophy made simple training videos. If you're like, what the hell is SFR? There's a video on that. Don't worry give you the whole grand architecture of how we look at our portrait of re-training on this channel. It's so different than ever everyone else. It's not that different. Now that's the free stuff. Not free stuff is that hypertrophy book. If you're real super fucking nerd like me, you'd want to buy that shit. And of course, if you want to create a custom training template, but you need some architecture with which to do it. You can do it on our website. It's super valuable. It's not. We're not trying to rip you off. It's actually a good program generator. You can build whatever you want on it. It's going to make a whole lot of sense. And remember, I still have team of 19 butlers supervising as of now 27 Lamborghinis. I even have the old 1980s, Koon Tosh and everything. It's something. It's a memorabilia. And if you guys want to support the Lambo fund, buy more shit. If you don't like me having Lamborghinis, what the hell is around with your uneven support the American dream? In any case, folks, thanks for tuning in and I'll room buy you next time and leave you and your girlfriend for mud water on the side of the street as you hear and see in small Lamborghinis exhaust.

Up! Yes! Feel it in your legs a little bit, Nick? My man. I'm shaking my head no as of the sun. Then no get the audience. Hey folks, I'm Dr. Mike Professor of Sports Science and co-founder of Renaissance Pre-Decision inventor and creator of the RP Hiperture Fiat, which I will be using today to do a dumbbell, only leg workout. The person I'm doing it to is my boss, CEO of our Pinnock Shaw, as you'll hope this goes well, let's get started. The first exercise of the three that we're going to be doing today is the dumbbell stiff leg at deadlift. It is going to hit the glutes. It is going to even strengthen your lower back. The primary target is the back of the leg, the hamstrings. Technique is super important on this exercise. So let's look into a few key tips and tricks to how to make this work best for you. Most people will make a mistake of simply taking the dumbbells and bending over flexing at the spine that doesn't pre-stretch the hamstrings. It's not very effective. It looks cool and it'll strengthen your back, but it's not a hamstring exercise. What we want is for three things to be in check. The first is we want our knees, just slightly bent, not locked out, not bent like crazy, just a tiny bend. The second thing we want is a big chest of the entire time. You're going to be sitting back at your hips and your chest has to stay elevated. So your back is nice and arched the whole time that pre-stretches the hamstrings. It keeps your back very safe and it allows you to put maximum tension on the hamstrings. The third thing we want is to take our butts and try to push them as far over to the back wall of wherever you are. And if you're outside the other side of the earth such that your hands are just hooks that are hanging there, no bend, nothing. Big chest knees in a stable position just barely bent, keeping the knees. They are keeping the chest up. Nick is going to shoot his hips back slowly, reaching his butt backwards. And as he does that, you'll notice that his hamstrings are going to be under a ton of tension. Do you feel that in your hands? Okay, let's go to some work sets. Nick already did one one upset with light dumbbells. He wanted at least one one upset of about 10 repetitions nice and slow to groove into the movement, get yourself ready. And then you're probably ready to go if you're working out with just a few dumbbells of home. He's a pretty strong guy so he's going to be using the 40 pound dumbbells. His grip will be the limiting factor if he doesn't use a pair of wrist straps. And in this case, this is a product called VersaGrips. No affiliation, I've reached out to them a few times. They pretend not to know that we exist. But they're awesome and we highly recommend them. If you need grip support, this is the strap to use. If you don't, you probably don't just grab the dumbbells firmly and we're going to do a set of G-Wiz 10 to 50, maybe even 20 repetitions. Any weight that you pick that challenges you brings you close to muscular failure with anywhere between five and 30 repetitions is totally effective for strength and muscle growth and physique development. No wrong answers here. The only right answer is proper technique. The entire time. Oh yeah. One last one. Big chest. Arch. And I'm perfect. I'm just putting them down. Awesome. If you want to make sure that every working set that you do takes you close to muscular failure and the way we count muscular failure is, can you continue to move in the exact movement pattern of good technique? While your muscles are still contracting in the way that they're supposed to be. If your muscles are doing a good job, but your technique starts to slide, that's already beyond failure. If you can keep good technique, keep doing more repetitions until you're really starting to slow down and the weight is feeling heavy. We're going to do three sets total today because this is a dumbbell workout. We don't need to take very long breaks. For you at home, anything like 30 seconds, to a minute between sets should be totally fine. The goal of the exercise is to put tension on the hamstrings. And by going slowly, we have a really great mind muscle connection with a hamstring from making sure they're active. They're being stretched. They're being loaded. The temptation is to be like, all right, let me just get these out of the way. You're not here to get them out of the way. You are here to impart tension on the muscle, which means keep it slow. Keep it steady. Your body will not like that, but your body doesn't like to get in shape. It likes to be in shape. You're going to get in shape doing this stuff. Oh, yes. Make sure to pause at the bottom and really milk that painful stretch. Let's do a nice two second pause here at the bottom here. One and two and up. Beautiful. Well, stumbling a little bit. It's a hard workout. That's why we're here. All right. Excellent stuff. We're going to regroup. The next exercise we're going to do is a dumbbell front squat. Exercise number two of three. We hit the glutes a lot. We hit the hamstrings of tongue. Now it's time for quads and glutes at the same time. The dumbbell front squat. Here's how this works. We're going to have an interesting two modifiers to this. Because if you only have some dumbbells at home, you have to be a little bit creative as to have it impart a lot of stimulus. One to your quads and Nick here looks a little frightened and he should be. Because this is going to hurt. So we have just a mat here and you can use anything you have around your house, including some hiking boots that give you a nice heel. We want a big heel to our setup so that we can stay more upright and have the knees travel way over our toes. You're going to keep your feet roughly shoulder width apart, toes pointed out. And you're going to squat down slowly to full depth position. Notice how far ahead my knees are. My upper body is completely upright. Chest is up the entire time. I take one full second to sit here at the bottom. But I don't come all the way up. If you come all the way up with a normal barbell, normal leg press, hacksquat, that's totally cool. There's lots of load. Here we only have dumbbells. We don't have the benefit of a high load. So we're going to try to challenge our muscles of tongue. The research has shown that muscles grow better in the bottom half bottom two thirds of the range of motion than the top half or top third of the range of motion. He's going to come up two thirds of the way up and then go right back down and hold for a second. And you're thinking, but when does it get a break? He doesn't. It's terrible. And then he's going to go all the way up two thirds and then come back down. And that's going to be how he does most of these repetitions. And then he is a very close to failure. And when you're doing this at home and you're really close to failure, come up and lock out completely. Take five seconds of breathing and then begin again. And we're going to go in each set two rest breaks last one here. Ultra slow. Five and one more. Let's go slow. Boss up. Yes. That hurts me. I'm not even doing anything. About one minute rest. And then we get right back into it and it just walked off. I think he's done with the photo shoot. We're doing three sets total, but each one has three approaches to muscular failure. So it's really kind of like six to nine sets somewhere. It's pretty brutal. Just start out with two or three sets yourself a few to this workout. And over the weeks you can add sets if you need more volume if you're covering ahead of schedule. Guys, we'll notice Nick's upper body is completely upright and straight. This chest is vertical. Heels elbows are up. If you start to round over the dumbbell, start to fall, no one's having any fun. This isn't what they look like. Mix having fun right now either, but beautiful. And one more here, full pause. Up all the way. Rest, breathe. Five seconds. And we'll do our last little mini set. Feel it in your legs a little bit, Nick. My man. I'm shaking my head. No, I have the sucks. The no get me out of here. Five more. Let's do it. Big chest. Oh. One. Slow. Two. Slow. Three control the bottom. And troll. Four. And one last one. Super pause. Up. Yes. Beautiful. Awesome. Nick's going to go to. Go to his sad place off camera and try and rub his quads. One exercise left. It is going to be a dumbbell split squat. Oh my god, dude, my quads are pumped. Dumbbell split squat. Target's the quads. The inner thighs. And massively targets the glues. Execution here is really important. What Nick is going to do is he's going to put one of his feet up on the front. On this little platform, he's going to take the other foot and kick it back. G about three or four feet. A nice distance to get a really good stretch. The target is this back loop right here. His chest is going to be completely upright. He's going to put most of his force and weight on that front leg. And he's only going to use the back leg on his tippy toes to stabilize. His goal is going to be to touch his back knee ever so gently to the ground and hold there for a split second while generating all the force with his legs. We're only going to do two sets of this. But it's one set means you go with one leg. Probably your weaker leg first. You rest about 30 seconds. You go with the other leg. You rest a minute. And then you do set number two. So two sets here is really four sets in reality. Once the reason for the elevation here, you can do these on the ground no problem. The reason for the elevation is because at the bottom, if you elevate the front foot, it stretches your glute out more. And that tension understratches shown scientifically to grow more muscle. It won't feel great, but it'll be good for you. It's like eating vegetables, I guess. One, chest up. Two. Three. Big chest. Four. Oh my god, that's it. That's it. That's failure. Beautiful. Beautiful. And just like that, he's gone. A terrible last set of the day. Nice little break. Breathe that out a little bit. Very good. Three more. One. Good no worries. If you lose your balance, just reset as soon as you can. Two. And then last one slow. Yes. Perfect. Go ahead and rack. While Nick is breathing heavy, let me throw some more facts at you. Nick is an IFBB professional bodybuilder. He trains in a gym loaded with barbells, dumbbells, heavy weights, machines. Couple of 20 and 40 pound dumbbells with little platform. You think there's no way he can get a good workout. Nick, how are you feeling? Now, you're up. You said it all. You can make these workouts all tretaff at home. And if you download the RP high-perrophy app, link in the description. Then the app can build these workouts for you. Guide you every step of the way and make sure that week to week month to month. You're progressing with your goals in mind. Do you need the app to do these workouts? No. If you just want to do them at home for free, we are absolutely down with that. If you want that little extra bit of help, it can be an awesome consideration. Give it some thought. And while we scrape Nick off the floor here, thanks for tuning in. And we'll see you guys next time.

Folks, what's up? It's Dr. Mike. 16 weeks post surgery. I'm on my grind. I am training. I'm big. I mean maybe no those things. Anyway, today we're doing a gargantuan chest and tricep and shoulder workout. So let's learn stuff, get jacked, and see what's going on. I was just sick for like, we get least maybe a little bit more than a week. So sometimes off, but I've been training again for a few days. But basically TLDR, this is a big workout. My workout capacity is very good now. Lift your feeling great. Now I'm jinxing myself, but it's gonna have some fun. Let's go warm up on the incline. Check through that, do that whole thing. For years, I've had a very, very good chest relatively speaking. And very good triceps, but I kind of wanted to get a little bit more out of my triceps. And I really like the ASMR, kind of the feel of close grip pressing. So I've just done a ton of close grip pressing. And I noticed a little while ago like, my chest couldn't be bigger. Like obviously it's true for everyone all times. But I was like, you know, not man, like, I'm not getting my chest hit nearly as much for workouts as I used to. And so I widened my grip just to show you guys, I used to literally press in here all the time. And for shoulder stuff, I still do it for overhead press. Now I literally took one fist out. One fist out in excellent film Scott, film that believe or not. Um, yes, yes, one fist in was related to similar topic. That widening allows me to have a very close to 45 degree angle in my elbow at the bottom. Instead of coming closer, coming closer really purgatory. How does your triceps and make sure triceps are huge limiting factor? Coming out wider can make your chest limiting factor. Now that it is, first of all, turns out I can bench a lot more than I thought. And second of all, last time I did this, did this twice already. My chest got mooped. Super exciting. So I'm going to go to two plates now. Do that for a set of about four. And then it's 200 more of my saying. It's Ronnie time. 200 and fit the path for, hi, fifth and 12. I like to see somebody up the staff me do this. Actually, hold up. Say something will. I was like this. I'm okay. Anyway, let's do it. 13. Oh great. Really smooth. Gentle touch. Go lock out. Not bad. The rest of human is two to three. Plug back in here. The goal is my right match. It's two more sets of 13. However, many little many sets of takes me. We'll have you guys along for that ride, Missack. Yeah, packs feeling. Packedacular. Yeah, open the deck. All right. Set number two here, folks. You're going to see me do about maybe six to eight reps. And then rest and then finish up the rest of the reps for 13 total. 10. Not too shabby. Just need enough of a break. You're going to high quality three. You're going to have to do that. 13. Rest two three minutes. I'm going to do one more set like that for another 13 and two 50. And then it's 25. I like to worry. You know, I'm so sorry. I'm so sorry. Not much. What? Are you answering your own questions? Did you just ask how's it going? And then said not much. Um, I just want to ask you like, it's cool that I'm doing pretty well, right? Yeah. Like I'm just like kind of the man. I'm just kind of succeeding everything. You know, saying like big deck and shit. It's cool, right? Like on my tall. Whatever. Yeah. I mean, can everybody's talking. But yes, relatively speaking, you are taught. Like I'm great, right? You're fine. You're 100% fine. But like I'm awesome. You're you're good. Just. Oh, died. It felt pretty good. Four apps left. Take a little time. Make sure I'm good for it. She'll very good. Yeah. That last one. On that second to last rep just now, I was like, oh boy, hope I'm a little stable myself. And then I'll be okay. Uh, Smith machines are tough because you can't wiggle out of them. You get pinned under one of these. It's really bad news. So in any case, drama aside, that felt awesome. I am going to check my RPI hypertrophy app really quick to see what the plan is for the next set. So 185. I did last time for 20. I think this time, I do one 90 for 20. Oh my god, 15. Oh, God, I got dim. Mountain go to over here. Climb it on benches and shit to get the shot. You guys know, once I'm first time I ever met Scott, I was like, what would you do for the shot? And he's like, I'll do anything for the right shot. That's how we hired RPI, everybody. Five more reps. Let's go. Nice. Sweet. I'll tell you guys the fun stuff. What are you taking, Dr. Mike? Scott, we should sell out to like a pixie dusting supplement company. I take like eight things a day. I start off my day with melon draft. It's like replicates a draft that cools your body down from a lacquillarily and it's like made of melon. It's like really good. I love it. So it's like my favorite flavor of any company where I've ever taken. Even though I just signed with this company three days ago, I do mean that. And I don't know what these pills are, but like, I think they're like citruleen. Just like a big difference in the gym. Look, the pumps just out rages. What was that? No, I'm not on trend. Not right now. Anyway. How do I not have a free workout sponsor? You got a free workout sponsors? You got that shit? Yeah, I don't hear shit. Well, I'm pretty sure it's out here. You feel me? Shit. Do I look motivated? No. I don't even want to be here. I know. What's my favorite thing about this hypothetical pre-workout? I've never taken yet? Name all of my favorite things in my whole life up to the point early memories of my dad, loving a relationship. All that's gone, bro. Is this pre-workout as that much better? See, I'm ready to sell baby. One, eight, eight, nine, nine, sell. Call me. We'll make a video. Folks, I have two exercises on this. The first is really, really quick. And the second one is like an actual free lecture size. And let me do the first one. And we'll get to the center, right? Okay, cool. So now the second exercise is going to be push downs. Here's the thing. I do push downs on a regular cable. The cable comes in front of my face. I have to push my head back, right? Which means I can't lean over the cable. Otherwise, I'm at the end of the exercise of it's great, guys. What ends up happening is the part of my tricep, the long head, the pulls this down, ends up getting hit a ton. And the other heads don't feel a ton. So what I like to do instead, it's got to come over from the side, is I lean forward into this thing. So I end up pushing forward and letting my elbows come really far back at the bottom. That gives me an amazing stretch for the triceps. And it allows me to really get high quality work without just bicing the whole thing to the long head. Plenty of long head work, ever. So what I'm going to do here is just do like five or six a little quick warm up reps. Once I've done those, we're going to begin work sets at earnest, which will be a lot of sets. Four sets, tons of bi-wripped match sets. I think it's like 20 or 20 when we're up to percent pretty tough stuff. So let me get grooved in. This is already the working weight. I just start from the bottom, so I did not count that as a rep. Nice. You guys see my leaned over posture, up and back, down. Down and down a little bit of adjusting center of gravity. Just kind of has to happen up well reps. Oh, 22 22. 22. Let me turn my camera off. Just check in. RPI, perjury fiat. Yep. First of 22 is done. I have three more sets of 22 reps. I'm going to split them up into my right match. 10, 10 to five reps at a time. Rest a little bit, keep going. And once I've done with that, I have deficit pushups. We get to those in a bit. But for now, I have no idea what's got max you're going to do with this video. So maybe there's a fun combo real ahead of like a million tri-spox tensions. See you there. Almost certainly. I don't know. Okay. Oh quick drink. Oh quick drink. Got a gatorade, genius shot and element in there. Protein carbs, electrolytes, and then check my RPI perjury fiat 40 total pushups. Over as many sets as it takes me. She's who comes up with these stupid workouts. The debate about volume and hypertrophy is functionally over volume one. If you're load somewhere between your fiverr at max, your 30 rep max, if you are taking your sets within three or four, definitely two or three reps of failure or closer, the biggest turn dial by far is how many sets you do per week per muscle. And so I've been trying to push the foot around this for years. Never worked. Every time I crank my volume within my ability to recover on a muscle group, if in rows my shoulders have recently blown up just because I've been pouring in my right match wraps down their throats. That's right there are shoulder throats. Think about that. My shoulder has a little throat. That's 20. Ugh! Christ. Good God. It's 10. It's 30 total. Guys, if you like these kinds of videos, or like when I'm really doing and training, our member section does not cost a lot of money. You get tons of added bonus features and regular, or at least once a month. You get my behind the scenes training footage. Guys, it's how I train. There's nothing bad. Just just me and this is going to roll the goddamn... this is no one here. Huh? Anyway, it's a f***ing ball or idea. Give it some thought. See you in the member section if you like that. Four more animals. I'm not trying to finish these. Try to get extra quality at each one. Ugh! Mmm. I sure I can do a push-up. Good God. I had to get big shoulders plug. I've done lots over. I had prices very heavy. It helped not a ton. There's never high volume. Today I have five sets of gay block break rows with 20 reps per set. That's a hundred rubber workout. And I'm going to do the Myra Match style. Sometimes I even go over 20. Just keep cranking rest crank rest. So basically see this next and last part of the workout. As a hundred reps total of upright rows. And I just got to get them done. And that's the real thing fellas. It's something that's hit me recently at a big realization. Number one, qualifier for getting big, is do the f***ing work. And yeah, go hard. Go heavy. But set after set is what makes you big. It's what makes you your biggest. If you've used multiple set programs before high volume, you have a great result. Two things to be happening. One, you'd be too much volume. It's cut that in half and then try marching up. The other thing is could be your sleep, your food, your recovery or their order to survive this kind of stuff. You need to be higher piece and cues recovery wise. And I've said this a few times I'll see it again. Do not like training shoulders. I don't like training shoulders. I volume. It's thing annoying. I'd rather just leave. I'd like a really cool, like chest and tricep pump right now. I'd want to just like hit a couple shots and then just go off. But there's a thing. We're here to make changes. Nobody ever said the show was going to be comfortable. Nobody ever said it was going to be glorious either. There's no floor in doing 100 reps shoulders. But there is outcome. That's why that's over here. I don't even know what compels me at this point. It's like Sonic the Hedgehog getting in a bunch of coins. I can still get these shit. That's good to feel pain on the side dulse. Not super common. The last six. Last six reps of the workout. Come on, baby. Let's go. Do you guys think I'm serious? Big dog got any baby. I don't know. I especially think about howling dogs is after that first. Well, you're like, oh, they're not going. Get an extra one. Versa grips off. It means workouts over. Gonna drink my shakes. Hop in the sauna for about 20 minutes. Something I've been doing recently. Some interesting health benefits seems to very conclusively not. Interfeited hypertrophy at least. It might elevate it a little bit. That's kind of neat. And before I hit the sauna, I'll hit a couple of poses. Get you guys a praise on the scar situation. So 16 weeks out. That means that I've been lifting four. Yeah. Something like 10 weeks now. Post surgery. Got all my muscle back and then some. My body fat's kind of interesting. Not too low, not too high. About to be doing a fat loss face soon this fall. So things are getting pretty exciting. My training is after they call the community clicking. Do you click in a long? And for you find folks that want transparency, you guys know this is a place to get it. I'm on 100 milligrams of testosterone, 50 milligrams of premable and per week. It's 150 total. It's a replacement dose. Everybody doesn't make premate on their own. But on that, I'm on three units of pharmaceutical great growth hormone. And a bunch of other ship, like just like you know vitamins and minerals, vitamin D, each like that. And five milligrams of terzepotide, which I just take all the time now, because it's a fucking health elixir. So I'm on that. And like later this year to test kind of a show protocol, I'm going to add double the gear, so 300 total. I used to go up to 1500. You need even 2,000 in some cases years back. So 300 is a sick joke. Going to go up to four and a half and maybe up to 16 is a growth. And then probably add in ligand raw, fun experiment. Some friends of try to, they loved it. I tried it for like a couple days and all the only ship. This is a real spark. I'm trying that at a very low dose, but for eight to 12 weeks, combined it with a fat loss phase. Cool shit could be happening. Are we 234 pounds today? Well you get to see some video of me half naked in a second. I'm not like lean or whatever, but I'm not terribly out of shape. 234. 100 thousand legs. Lacky shit might be happening. Don't call that a prediction. I'm too much of a non-confinite spark to make things. But anyway, thanks for tuning in. That's your next one.

He said, then you're gonna, baby, do you mind? Oh, I got those, f*** up! Absolutely, Rans. Oh, it hurts. I'm all wrong. Yeah. Stop the video, guys. I'm talking about, for Renaissance Pyrrhusation. This is your father, I have to be pro also for Renaissance Pyrrhusation. And look, it's Genegiri, and she's back from 80th time on this channel. This is Yama Fuchs, can't get enough of the shit. And then, Sam, mommy, you look in straight, super hot fire up here. Would you say you're gonna get in black? 16, 9.4. 16, 9, not only is that a f***ing jack-task weight, you got 69, right? That weight. How can you do? Did you plan that shit? I'm going to play too much, girl. Oh, come on. Unbelievable. All right. The good news is, Gen's gonna be dating a lot. The bad news is she won't have the use of her arms during those dates. Because we're gonna smash her arms up right now. Your arms look pretty big, but they can always be bigger. I never, ever trained by substance rights. Good until, just get a camera, let's fix it. That's a good thing. Pre-motion curls are up first. We're using made into the world's first ever free motion machine. But Goddamn it. It still works. We are going to do sets of 10 to 20 reps on the free motion. And we're probably gonna buy a rep match to shit, which means whatever she gets on that first set, she's gonna be ready to post the failure. Rest in a normal lot of time. However, many, many sets that takes to reach that number again. And again, and again, four sets in a row of sets. Let's say she gets 16 reps on the first set. That means second set. Let's say she gets 12 failure. Rest it a little bit. Don't go anywhere. Another four to get to 16. Then 16. Then 16. Pain is on the menu. And Gen is the meal. No swinging. Use all in there. All in there. All in there. Let us stretch your obisus. There you go. 14, one more slow. We'll stretch it in the bottom. Hold it for a second. Let us stretch. Stretch, stretch, up. Boom. Yeah. Slow. And that's it. Fuck it. There you go. Very good. Very good. Very good. Our goal is 50. And we're going to add a note. Boom. So we're going to take Gen and we're going to move her down off the machine. A little bit in front. So she gets more of an intense stretch on the bottom. That super stretch of the very far end of the range of motion with a ton of tension is really really good for muscle growth. But it's bad for how Gen's going to feel. Is that two? 15 reps as the goal. Let's hit it. Yep. Three. Very controlled. Two more goal. Almost there. Almost there. Amazing. Slow. Amazing. Slow. Nice and smooth. No explosive. A little senior forward in the forward. Yeah. Hell yeah, Gen. Slow. Slow. Big stretch. If they're another. As if another. So. Rack. Oh. Oh. Oh. The dinosaur hands. Do the dinosaur hands. Oh. I need to drink. But I can't. That was another way up. You don't have to go that slow again. Okay. Two. That's better. That was in. Come on. That was a bullshit. That does not count. Do it again. Ah. That's three. Good. Two more. It's okay to take a break right there. One more. Tacky the moment. Okay. You don't get it. You just drag it and hold. Keep going. Yes. One more. Oh, those engine. No bullshit. No fucking bullshit. Last one. No bullshit. I'm an up in. Yeah. Yeah. Slow. That's it. That's it. Oh. Audible. Yeah. Why does this set? It's like a. Just changing it. Yeah. Yeah. Ahh. Oh god they are so bad. I'm talking about painful memories for your childhood or your biceps. That too. I don't really have a lot of memories. We're gonna make an audible here. That's a shitload of overload. A lot of stimulus. A lot of damage for one exercise. We're gonna go into the next exercise. And so we're gonna get our handy dandy RP training app out. And then we're gonna say, okay, We got first set, we got the second set, we got the third set, fuck all that on the fourth set, now it's time to go on and do barbell curls, roots with an aerogrip. I was in and forward, more, so you want to push them in towards each other, like this, supinate, go ahead, curl, and, and, and, yeah, really? Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, we're just warming up, we're just warming up again, we're starting again. Is this starting? You want some N more out here, like just pushing them towards each other. I don't know, I can physically go in there. You can do it. There you go, yes, exactly, exactly. Stay upright at all times, big chest, big chest, big chest, big chest, big chest, big chest, big chest, big chest, big chest, big chest, big chest, big chest, big chest, big chest. Beautiful, good one, good stuff. Up quick, good one, I have need tense. No, yeah, I know. This is the working way, that's absolutely the working way, yeah. Holy shit. Hi. Good, no, I'm not, I don't know why. It's not helping. I'm not good. This is 35 pound bar though. So why? 35 pound. Second exercise, the biceps are pre-cooked already from the three sets of the free motion curls. Now it is an easy bar curls, probably sets of 10 to 15. This is Jared Techni, one of our YouTube viewers, one of our channel members I believe, recommended to be called Jerry Curls, which is not really that far off. And we're going to do in three sets of these, 10 to 15 reps, watch the technique on this. Elbow is going to be super close in together. Chest is going to be up and the slow eccentric almost comes out in front as much as down to give you a crazy psychotic stretch. This exercise, if these had knees, it would be composed of very knee ligaments. Think that through. Let's get going. I was in a forward knee hard and making it hard and making it hard. 11, slow chest up, hit it, finish up. 12, slow as if another. 8, slow. And Georgia, Georgia, Georgia, Georgia, Georgia, Georgia, Georgia, Georgia, Georgia, yeah, that's it. 9, right in the slow, relax. Relaxing. Okay, don't come down. Just stand there for a sec. Let's finish up three good ones, like them in. Good set up, Chad. Go to the toilet. Georgia, Georgia, Georgia, Georgia, Georgia, yeah. 2, last one coming up. Good technique, only, Jen. Good technique, only. Up, up. And then slow as if another. Chest up. Oh, that's what we want. Rack. Chest up makes it hard. Oh, huh. Try fix your hair really good. No, no. Oh, there you go. Your hair is fixed. I was just fucking with it. No, it's not. I can't. This is pathetic. What is going on? I don't have. You do use pain. I say there's a good and a yin and a yin to crying during the workout. The bad part isn't sad. What's sad? The good part is running makeup. Fucking. Is that okay for me to say? Yeah. I'm not going to say I was enjoying it for that. I might cry right now. Good start crying and start curling. Three left. And slow. Control. I don't know what. I did it. Again. I did it. Up. I did it. Up. Slow. Control. Last one. Good technique or it doesn't count Jen get your marbles together. Okay. Go. And you're strong. Yes. As if another. Slow. Slow. God dammit. Slow. Beautiful. Rack. Oh man. That was so good. That was so good. Oh my god. Those fucked up. She gets angry. Fuck you. Whoa. Whoa. These people are nothing to do with it. Fuck them. Just sorry. I'm just hear me sing this shit. I don't know what to do. I'm really flaky. I do that. I'm really flaky. For the Biceps as a whole. This is funny. Low pump moderate pump our amazing pump. Is there one above that? Neither. Nothing amazing. Okay. Folks. It's a little bit more of a press. It's not the worst thing in the world, but not ideal. If you take the elbows and push them in, the front belts can't really contribute to the movement. It's more of an extension rather than a press. We're going to be doing very strict, especially elbows in on the way down. On the way up, it's okay if they come out a little bit. On the way down is really, really critical. Deep stretch every time. That's probably 10 to 20 more times. It's really good. It's really good. It's really good. It's really good. It's really good. It's really good. It's really good. It's really good. That's probably 10 to 20 more, like 10 to 15 desuctin. Once those are done, we're going to finish off a whole thing with a bunch of pushups, Super sets, but I think God right now that I'm not the one to do it, let's get into it. 10 slow. Okay, well... Big push, 11, 1 more slow and forward. Up, good. Good! Back! Okay. Thanks. Okay, I could do this. Let's go. Let's go. Nine, one more, Jen. Let's get superpowers going. Turn on that wonder woman shit. And then down. Yep. Big push. Go. Go, damn you. Yes. Good. Yep. That's it. Oh, you're a little too old. Hold up, hold up. You just getting nowhere. He tried to push by. You ready yet? You want a little bit rest. I'm not gonna stop this thing. It's a how well can you do in your next set. No, no, no, come on, let's go. Yes, six. Watch it. You got it. Stay with me. Stay with me. Stay with me. Push, push, push. Seven. Two more. Way to go slow, jab. Deep. Deep. Good. Good. Big push. Come on. Oh shit. Get it. Get it. Back. Go. You said eight, then you're gonna, baby, do nine. I did say nine, but then eight. Eight is good enough. Yeah, okay, thanks. And so far, you physically couldn't lift the weight of your. Yeah. Remember that thing about not being a bitch with like regular pushups? Neep pushups? Treat me like a mopedch. I guess we're going to do something. I need to do chick pushups. Oh, yeah. I'm a triumphant. How am I doing? Tasty to do those next. My RP training app, Alpha Build, says it's time to superset pushups from a deficit with pushups through from the knees. So Jan is going to do three sets, but kind of six sets, three supersets. First one is deficit pushups. The second is also deficit pushup, but from the knees, once her ability to go from the toes gives out, this is the end of the workout. Try to step to already pre-fatee, pain time equals gain time. Let's get it done. Let's fight. Look at the perfect. It's got two more stomach up, Jan. Six. Let it get it. Go. Seven knees. Oh, yeah. Mungin. Two. One more. Mungin. Up. Up. That's it. Rest. Up. Up. That's it. Rest. Up. Okay. I have the lyrics. Oh, it hurts. Only Jan and Gary has enough intensity to make arm training make her delirious. Push. Come on. That's it. Okay. Do the knees. Knees. That was four good ones. That little break, taking a little break, taking a break, breathe a bit. Two to three. Let's go. Yes. One. Come on, Jan. Up. Up. Done. I'm no bitch. Okay. You let me do push-ups from the knees. I did some from my toes. That's all that matters. I did some from my toes. Oh. Stop the video guy. Have you been offered an emcee to my day to die, everybody? Yes. And peg. $1,000. $5,000. $5,000. $1,000. I'm going to choke you to death. Take the money. It's money, can't. Oh. Great stress. One more. One more. One more. I think you're going to do that. Good. Good. Rast. Nice. Long time. 10 second. Oh, God, two more, Jan. Rast. Rast. Rast. Good. Okay. Up. Push. Yeah. It's right. It's right here. My arms are stuck. Yep. Fuck. I'm not going to let you in. You need help. What is this shit? That was legit. Oh, my God. I got tired just watching that workout. Jared thoughts. Amazing. Great technique as always. Jim pushes. Pushes the limits every time. Pushes the limits. I don't fucking go further. Yeah. Fucking nuts. That's my parole officer told me. Different kind of situation. Folks, Jen has all kinds of social media. If you're into this look that we call muscle mommy, you're going to want to see a whole lot more of her. And you know who you are to get in here. Give her some love, Instagram, YouTube, all that is. We'll all see you next time. You know, like, in college and shit, you don't know if you're 100% straight. Sure, planes been the model. Actually ended up having to kiss my best friend on the lips. And I'm like, you know, like, 100% at 2023. Everyone's fucking everything's good. You do what you do. You're into what you're into. And I was like, yeah, like, I could be gay, right? Like you look at some guy on the street. And then like his mustache here. My lips touched it. And I was like, You look like full body shots. Okay. Okay. Thank you. Never again.

Full stretch, full stretch keep going keep going. Press! Good job! Oh ho ho ho! That's it, you're done. Good job, you're done. Haha! You can just open and go. Chatter open. There you go. Much better. Much better. Last one. Slow, extra fucking slow. Big fucking pause. Wait for it. Up. Go! Rack. Do you know how you are? Nobody said this will be fun. Slow, slow, slow, slow. Up. Press. Press. Rack. Fuck out of here, you little titsucker. Okay. It's January. You're getting well into your fitness game. Which is sweet. I'm right here alongside with you for that. We have just a quick couple of who will tidbits to talk to you about. As far as maybe some other stuff you want to be involved in, versus just buying the templates that we have using the RP.co.ch app and watching YouTube. For 100% free, we have four pay stuff that just a little bit of pay, but gets you a ton of value. This, what you're about to hear is exactly as much sales pitch, promung, as I am capable of doing ethically the first thing I'll say, like I say, all of these talks when I get a chance to sit down. You don't have to buy anything. Ever. You can continue to watch our YouTube videos for free. If you all for it, click the like button every now and again. If you like something, you just watch it. It records views. We get paid off of views. It's amazing. I don't need to buy any of this stuff, but let me give you a little chat about some of the benefits of this stuff. Little upsell stuff. And maybe you're going to be like, oh, that sounds nice, but it's not for me totally cool. But if you're like, sounds like something I might want to try and maybe actually can help me a lot, then amazing, give it some thought. All to all of a sudden. So here's the thing. First, is YouTube is for sure free and always will be. We will continue to always put out 425 YouTube videos like we always have every single week, high level content. That will never change. Every now and again, we promote the YouTube membership, which I've about to start promoting right now. A couple of people just a couple of odd balls. And then in the caption, we'll say, hey, like, you know, like, YouTube video should be free or whatever way. Yeah, absolutely. Whenever replacing our content for free with paid content ever and we just won't. Okay? But if you want that next level of content, the YouTube membership is where you can get it. And it's like there's a couple of membership tiers, but it's basically like five bucks a month. And you get multiple videos through that month, usually at least one a week. That are way more in depth and way more nerdy than we would usually go on the channel. And I'm going to be completely sure up with you guys. Why aren't they on the channel? Because only a small fraction of us on the channel are mega ultra nerds. The rest of you are like super nerds and the rest are regular nerds and the rest are just human beings trying to learn something about exercise and diet. For the ultra super psycho nerds, if we just put these crazy super in depth videos on the regular channel, they just kind of bomb. They don't do all that well. They don't get a ton of views. The world doesn't get to see them as much. And then that's content we could have put out that's a bit more of a general appeal. It's a bit more fun. Still a ton of science still a ton of learning, but we could just reach out to for more people. So those videos that I have to make, like I'll have a list of videos to make and Scott the video guy will be like, hey man, Mike. Some of these are nerdy as hell. Maybe we should throw them to the members channel because I just don't know if they're going to do that well. And it pains me every time to hear this because I'm a mega nerd. I want to cut you guys all the super nerdy stuff on the regular channel. But we all know there's only so many videos in cram and until people tune out. I don't know about you guys getting the the notification like twice a day coming up. And hey, there's another crazy super in depth 45 minute nerd video by Mike. There's only so much of that you're going to take. But if you want that sort of stuff and you have like five bucks a month come join us in the member section on YouTube. Those videos are a regular thing. And if you got that little you should want to fill up your super nerd cup. We've got you full. That's for the YouTube membership. A next here above that is the team full ROM membership subscription. This is not YouTube. This is separate. It's a forum that we run on Facebook for the time being, but these books are actually pretty decent about the forum thing. It's a private Facebook group. You pay money. It's like 30 bucks a month. But if you get the year, it's way cheaper turns into like 20 bucks a month. You pay money. You get into this forum. When you get into the forum, you get a couple of things right away. You get a ton of detailed diet templates that you can use right away. You get crazy discounts on pretty much all of our piece products, books and templates and stuff. A huge discount. You get free copy of the hypertrophy book, which is in South Lake 35 bucks. You get a free copy of the diet book, like all this good stuff right for free. And every six weeks, I personally designed with the help of Jared Feather, a multiple programs that you can do. We have four day week programs, five day week programs and six day week programs for whole body. And then we also have five and six day week programs for specialization. Like we pick a couple of muscles every six weeks. We really specialize them. We repeat that six weeks later. We're slightly different set numbers. Get you working on that same program. So every 12 weeks, we recycle the priority entirely. This means it's basically like a train alongside with us program. A lot of people in the forum. And we have like 700 people in the forum. They train on that program. So we get dedicated programs. This is basically a pay 30 bucks a month. And you get the programs completely included. You can use your own programs. And to that effect, it's 50% off on the custom training templates. Which you can generate your own programs. 50% off to big deals. $100 product. So it's 50 bucks. And you can build 18 weeks of training for 50 bucks. That's not bad. But here's the real kicker to look for. The forum is a Q&A situation where you post any question and other people answer it, including my self and Jared. And many others, including Trevor Fortbright, super top to your expert. If that's not enough, we have more. You can put up any videos you have of yourself training. And all of us and everyone else on the forum is going to give you technique and cue feedback. So you can put up videos every week working on your squat and will tailor your squat to be better and better and better over time. This is legit what happens. And by the way, the forum is going to such a way that there's like no Dickish behavior allowed. It's all jokes all good. But it gets only constructive criticism, which is really sweet. If you're really serious about improving your lifts and your technique, that's the place to be. And lastly, both myself and Jared do weekly lives where we do a collection for questions. Any question you have. Let's take six paragraphs to ask. We put it right in there and we answer it in depth. The average live of it two weeks, or sorry, every week, my life takes me about an hour and a half to two hours to get through. It's usually like 30 or 40 questions from people in the form. We will bash everything to the ground and make sure everything is explained. And there questions are guaranteed to be answered. I'm like the YouTube, I'm like anything else. If you ask a question in the form, we guarantee it's answered. You might have to tag us one more time or bump up the thread. We will get to it. And if you really want an answered for sure for sure, you ask it in the live and we'll 100% get to it. That form that live component is a huge thing for me. As it can directly answer your questions as much as possible. And so can everyone else in that form. It's a beautiful place to be great place for learning. If you into some money, if you're walking around the street and there's a sack of money, you know what I'm holding crap? I could use this to get in the form, give that some thought. So once again, YouTube, we love you guys. You don't have to pay up. Welcome to thing. You never will. Unless YouTube serves charging or some shit like that. That we can't promise. We'll always put out great content. A ton of it all the time. But if you want some extra nerdy content, give the member section a thought in YouTube. And if you want to take your nerdyness in interaction to the next level, and I'd really be almost coached along by everyone else who's into this kind of stuff. Give some thought to joining team for Ram. We'll have all the links in the description below. Like, subscribe, and do something nice for someone this year. How about that? You've been a bad person. We know you have just try smiling at someone at the store. Go do that.

I feel like you have corrupted my shoulder. Hey folks, it's me Dr. Mike for YouTube and it's RPs Head Chef Mrs. Lori Shaw. And her two lovely children, Zach and Emma respectively, and they are going to compete with me in a cooking competition to see who can make mystery food. I haven't been informed about yet. Why are the kids here? Well, I've defeated every single other chef in combat, the man and the women in just like in a Trishon warfare. Eventually, they give the kids a K-47 in the send them into combat. These kids are getting a spoon and spatula respectively, but it's a start. Shall we do battle? Folks? We're going to wipe the floor with you. We're going to be you. We've seen your videos. Well, they're confident. They're very confident. I can't wait to see this. Oh, I think hands down they're going to win. Okay, to quote Michael Jackson, the cheetah's not my son. Let's get to the cooking. I know we're cheating on the... Yeah, you can't be cheating on them. Yeah, you're up first. It's a very simple recipe. The last time I followed a recipe was also to make cookies like we are today. And it was with my grandmother in 1992. 350 oven, line a cookie sheet with parchment paper. I did take pity on you and do that for you. This is a good news because I don't know what parchment paper is. So, it's digital interface. Nice. Oh, there's an analog section. So I hope this could think of that turns. Great. And then we don't want clean. We want 350. And I know how to turn a knob. I think. So who made this? This is a little bit of... Okay. As an Iraqi. Okay. For all of us. All of us well. Combined banana through oats. Stir in raisins. Combined is oddly non-specific. Oh, there's a... A mouse. I think God. Two large ripe bananas mashed. Oh, why not? I'll use your teeth. Looks at banana. Examin's audience. Dumped banana and what's saying anything. Dumped and so... You guys should rewatch this video when you grow up. It'll be a lot of fun. Okay. Through oats. Through with, through with. I can do this. You have a plethora of... Don't... Don't consent to me. Glory. I've had enough. Ha ha ha. Ha ha. Nice. Good. Large. The cookies not a science. Forget these numbers. Stir in raisins, but how many? We look up the raisins. And algorithmically, we determine that there are 20 malimet carbs. Wait, no. One quarter cup. So you're all the way at the raisins stage. Correct? But a good, right? He's really big on the even sprinkle. It's looking really good. And we're done. Winana, raisin, that cookies are whatever. No, no, that's not. It looks tasty and appealing. Look at oat coated banana. It's the way what you've made. Winna and Douh, move robotically. I say tie dance. That's how I made some print cookies. I'm not like married a butter girl who does this. This is tough. I'm tired. You don't feel free. Who is still here? Oh my god. It's still happening. Why is it done yet? Ugh. It needs to be here. Other than I was going to say that. There's some combination of this as far as I'm going with this. I just want to say, please put me out of our misery. Mix thoroughly, drop by even scoops on your prepared pan. I don't know what these devices are. They're the every- Look like they're. Everything's there that you need. But it's totally even like. Hey, Zach. More of your advice is so needed. So that all that just makes four cookies? That is a good and interesting point, Emma. Four big cookies. OK, problem. I noticed there are a lot of other ingredients. I have a mess with you. I can fix that. I forgot a few ingredients, but I'll fix it. Watch. See you first. Is the pan hot? No. There's a problem. There are three levels to this oven and it doesn't see which level. So chalk that up against the book on specific. In it goes. People actually do this. Isn't there a factory where cookies come from? I forgot that cinnamon, vanilla and salt exist. Bad news. But it's not something I can't fix. It says later to put the jam into the cookies and little doll up in the middle. But didn't say that it couldn't be a little bit more cinnamon. A usual jam. Salt goes in. Oh, this smells so bad. Oh, let me smell it. These are all. All right, now we clear the way for the children. Let's wipe the floor. No. Two large, right, right, bananas, mass. So start using the instructions Emma. Where's the parchment paper? See, seesack. Are you getting frustrated and how it could be done faster? I'm fully know I'm not. Because I'm a patient guy. Unlike you and my dad. You're a little dad. Slip the oven up for us. See? Almost impossible. Move it. You're on my side. Emma, don't you feel like Zack's taking a little too much credit for his cookies? Yes, I'm here. I think it's time for you to shop. Careful. Are you sure you want to use that? You don't need to use another bowl. You all go in the same bowl. Maybe you made a mistake. Maybe you made a mistake. Maybe I'm a set of them. Maybe I chose. I'm maybe like this. Right, maybe I don't need you. Hi. Wait, wait, wait. Put on. Did we get everything? Yes. Salt, vanilla, cinnamon, and oats. Is it the pouring? Or is it the dip? It's the pouring. Mix thoroughly. Hey, don't go crazy. I feel like you have corrupted my shoulder. Then you just have one more. Okay. Uh, we don't know. Right on time. Go ahead and finish you guys' eyes. Ah! Did you fall the instructions? Yeah, he's ready. I don't need the instructions anymore. I have memorized them and Samarlee improved them. And I'm done. And the kids go to the oven. I didn't mean that literally. I didn't mean that. All right. I think we got it. Am I a little say? I once saw a monkey at a zoo, tried to repair a television set. And it was doing a significantly better job than you are at whatever does that you're trying to do. Yeah. Oh. Oh. Oh, Emma. No. Evidence. It's delicious. I am very disappointed in you. The instructions clearly say, Chicken-Bine banana. Threw oats. Which means you start a banana. And you go down the list of ingredients. Adding everything in until you get to the oats. So that seems self-explanatory. I don't know why you would see a list of ingredients in a assume that they don't have a place in the recipes. So that was surprising. And then what else? You made giant divots and in your cookies. Well, you only made four cookies. Four big cookies. Which instead of 12. Oh, it's the recipe for the first one. Do you want seven Honda Civics or four Lamborghinis? So I mean, honestly, really are you destroying art because you hate why don't you just try one of the cookies, chef and see which one tastes good and which one tastes terrible? Yes, you can. Yeah. These are delicious. OK. So it says you. Even though I'm afraid to, I am going to try this. God, it's so moist. And juicy. And really, really. That's all. Oh. Better, I'll be taste so good. Oh, no, no, no, try it. Don't try it. Try it. It's great. That's pretty, you'll ever have. So awful. Oh, it's so salty. It's so sweet. I just want you to taste this and see what you've done. Oh, fudge muffin. Who the fudge made these fudge in things? Ew, it's terrible. Fudge. Thank you so much for making this amazing recipe. Look, the book of recipes. OK. For sale on a website. So if you like me having more Lamborghinis, please buy a recipe book. We have many of them. All kinds of delicious ideas. TVH is a whole thing to look like if I wasn't mentally unwell, it would take like two minutes to make. So it's awesome. And as far as who won the challenge, I think on taste, texture, appearance, and generally being a good cookie, kids won for sure. Yay! That's all. Yes, yes, yes. All your just desserts. Thank you so much, guys. Thank you so much. We grew up this video. We'd be much more funnier, much less fun into depending on which way your life is exact. I'll see you guys next time.

Real talk I had no idea what the fuck you were 7 Racks Devon Devon, Devon, Paul, Paul, why? What? Awesome Folks, I'm Dr. Mike for our sounds presentation. This is Mr. Tristan Lee for Tristan Lee for the show. And in any case, we got this together. I looked at Tristan. I thought, My God, that guy's arms are huge. But, Tristan, what is the size of an arm that is big enough? Is there even... I don't think so. Which is why we're going to train arms. We're going to do it using the RP hypertrophy app as always. And by always, I mean, recently since it's starting to hit. Pain is on the menu, but we already trained legs and Tristan possibly never flinched a single time, which tells me he's a cyborg from the future. And this arm workout should be a breeze. But prepare for pumps. Do you have some kind of stringent little situation under there that we're going to be exposing later? After I get a pump, yes. And that is the rule of the day. 1, 2, 3, let's go. 1, 2, 3, let's go. Which in the overhead, easy bar extension. This is a great, amazing try to step exercise. I no longer do it because I have so much trap. I think that I can't even get into position anymore, it sucks. I used to love this exercise. It was yours first, it was responsible for a huge, huge fraction of my try to step growth. The big cues here are to keep the elbows pointed forward, and then the other side of the arm. It's like wrong with putting them out, except it brings a little bit more shoulder into the equation. If you point them forward, it really just ends up being all triceps. So it's a small matter, but a matter that I think can make a very solid difference. That's a big cue. We're going to be going to slow on the way down. You've got to go deep. People don't want to go deep on the exercise because it humbles them with how little weight they have to use in the end. It's not about how much weight you use because there's nobody keeping track of that. Hey, how much weight are we using? How much weight? Nobody gives the shit. Do proper technique, the nice food, deep pause at the bottom stretch, and a full lock out of the top. Then we're making money. We're going to do four sets here, 10 to 20 reps. Super high quality. That's the first thing I want to say. The second thing? Why is my hoodie up? Because Toronto Canada is a high primary. I don't want to be seen by the wrong games you feel me? Up. Fifteen. How goes in? Slow. Go. Go. Sixty. Now it's time to go. Go. Sixty. Now it's time to turn it on. Let's go. Elbows in. Good pause here. No rush. Speed. Yes. Go. Go. Go. A grab. Hell yes. Hell yes. Life won. Yeah. Yeah. Technique never broke down a single time. Up. Go. You got one more. Let's go. We're here to go hard. Elbows in. Deep. Up. Go. Go. Go. Yes. I'm back. Oh my god. Amazing. 11. Very good. My grab drop off for arms compared to like legs or anything else is so much higher. They drop off more for arms. Yeah. I think I know why. Or I have a hypothesis at least. You have really, really gifted arms. And I think they're probably stronger relative to the rest of your body. And also bigger and also more composed probably a faster twitch muscle fibers. And that tends to mean that because of all of those factors independently am combined, they just don't recover as fast. Which is a good thing. If you have muscles that recover instantly, they're probably small and slow to which and they suck. Mm-hmm. Like anyone that can just like back to back do the same number of reps. I'm like, you need to get bigger. You're either training like a pussy or you're of a bunch of slow to push. Yeah. Yeah. You'll get bigger, but maybe not as much as you would have if you'd be. Yeah. Seven. Two more. Deep. Eight. One last one. Opposin. Deep. Head down. Up. Up. Up. Yes. Oh, my God. Perfect. That'll fucking do. Hey, no one in the last year. I was like, shake it. You can feel your quads dancing. Why am I quads camping? I've had my quads fully cramp on an overhead press before. Your body hair was actually very terrifying. Yeah. It was actually very terrifying. All right. Let's take it easy for a sec and then go do dips. Let's do it. Very cool. Now that you don't have try-subsetting more. Yeah. Cool. Good and I'm right. Yeah, let's find you a box. Sure. Go a pie. Yeah, that way you can just stretch out. We'll also have some man ready. Is that one better? Is this small one? Oh. Yeah. Overhead, try-sub extensions are done. Four sets of somewhere around 10 to 15 reps. And we have that logged in to the RBI Perch Fiat. Excellent. Now with dips. Type the inner body weight. distance weighing around 150 pounds. 147. Ish. And these dips are done in a special way. We don't want to come forward too much. We want to stay more upright and come down. It's not ultra comfortable as far as how much strength you're able to produce. But it is ultra uncomfortable for the try-sub-sets getting stretch under load, which is exactly what we want. We want a measured descent, full pause at the bottom, and a full lockout at the top. Four sets of dips. Yikes. He can do like 40 dips normally. Fresh. We'll not be getting sets of 40 because the try-sets are super super pretty exhausted, which is perfect. Let's get into it. Up. Six. More. Deep as you can. Up. Up. Seven. Rack. Oh my god. Seven dips there. Four. Four. What? What's that? Awesome. That is awesome. That tells me two things. One. You are really hard on the overhead extension. You're trying to set your shot. And two, the technique you're using here is exactly the kind of technique that leverages the most into your try-sets, the least of everything else. And it just makes them a huge limiting factor. Yes. Six. More. Up. Seven. More. You got this. Deep. Go. One more. Again. All the way down. Up. Go. Rack. Oh. Hell yes. Redemption. Good stuff, man. Five. Up. Couple more here. Deep. Six. I see that nose touching. One more. You got this. Up. Be athletic. Lock it. Lock it. Well. Yes. Hell yes. Oh, shit. That was the rep of a century, sir. Holy shit. I felt like a century. Fuck. Bicep training time before. Can I ask you to fill something out really quick? Just do it. Just basically how did your whole tricep situation feel. If you just answer each question, just kind of wondering what you think about this whole system. Definitely was my little excellent. That's it. Boom. You need like a death option. Like I died. Or if you just don't fill it in, they know you died. Yes. It's like a 30 second time. You're really. It just messages 911. It's like a 30 second time. We want a maximum stretch on the bicep because stretch under load is a big thing for hypertrophy. So what we're going to do. Have you stepped forward? You can stagger step if you want whatever is best. Big chest at the bottom. You don't want to be here. This stretch is the bicep's a lot. And then you arc through and come up to here. You don't have to come up like this just to hear slow and controlled. Big stretch at the bottom and a little pause. Boom. Big stretch in a pause. Boom. Makes sense? That's good. One slow. Big strike. Finish. And as if another slow. Trash up. Rack. Phenomenal. So guys, my rep match. Whatever number of reps, trusting gets in his first set. We're going to write that down into the app. And then all the other sets after if he falls a little short of it. He just takes a tiny little five second, ten second break. And then finishes however many reps he has to. Oh, shit. You got a few more. Four. Oh, my. Go. Go. Go. Slow. Now, don't go anywhere. Just stay right there. Finish. Last one. Up. Up. Up. And as if another slow. Big chest. Big chest. Big chest. And Rack. Beautiful. Beautiful. Beautiful. Jesus. Yeah. That works. That fucking works. One set left. Seven. One more. One more. Move. Yes. And then slow. Chastop. Rack. Excellent. Another four. One. Ray technique. Two. Three. Pause at the bottom. Go. Slow. Chastop. Pause. Rack. Nice. Easy rest. Two when you're ready. Oh. Yes. Now, slow. Big chest. Big chest. Pause. Rack. Oh. Shh. Fuck, yeah. Let's go kick them all their down, yeah. Let's do it. Last exercise. For today with Mr. Tristan. This is a standing two arm dumbbell curl, but it's done very special style. We took the Jared Feather Jerry curl. We modified it to be even more extreme. So here it is. And I'm glad you're here for this. We are going to grab the dumbbells. And, well, actually, without dumbbells for now. Typically, people curl like this, which is totally fine. What you want to do is pre-stretch the bicep, which means you're going to the entire time have your chest up and out. You're actually arching your back and leading back. And you take all the dumbbells all the way back here. You come up high enough that it's a little easier at the top. You pause for just a fraction of a second. And then slow a centroid of the dumbbells. Slow a centroid all the way down. Pause. Slow a centroid just like that. Give it a shot a couple times. What happens if my arms fall off? We will get someone to plug them back in and you'll do a few more reps. Go. 11. Slow. Up. Go, go, go, go, go. Slow. That's 12. Couple more. You got this. Up. Up. Up. 13. Chest up. Chest up. It's not going to make it easy. It's going to make it harder. We want harder. Up. Go, slow. Chest up. Chest up. Rack 14. Good. Yes. Holy crap. Unluck by step is just so far. I don't know why I'm in luck when sometimes one of them just gets asked. Yeah, I know. Good stuff, man. Chest up, chest up, chest up, chest up, chest up, chest up, Good more lean back. Yes. Nine. Chest up. Keep it up. All the biceps stretching my man. One more. Big curl. Yes. Yes. Finish. And then slow. Ooh. Rack it for a bit. Four more left over. Take your time with this. We're on good reps only. Good reps only. Three. Chest. Yes. Make your quality. Finish. Is there for another? Slow. Slow. Rack. One set left. Beautiful work. She's... Dude, fuck yeah. Tell me you got an arm pump. I can't feel my arm. I got it. I don't know what that means. Two. Slow. Chest up. Go. Slow. Slow. Slow. Rack. Let's finish your fucking great workout. Big chest. Everything right. Two reps to make it right. Yes. Slow. Extra slow this time. Yes. Beautiful. Everything you got. Good technique. Move. And then ultra slow. Fuck yeah. Rack. Dude. Oh, fuck it. Hell. Solid. Thank you. Listen. Real talk? I had no idea what the fuck you were. As far as a human being. I knew he was a celebrity or whatever. It's like celebrity. Please. Please. You're a full-on celebrity. You're like so master's the loner. He's a really nice person. Um. We've had a chance to train a couple times for the last few days. Real talk. You're the fucking man. Thank you. And. Because you just fucking get the work done. I haven't seen you try to cheat a single round. I haven't seen you bitch one time. You never try to duck any work. You don't show up on time. You show up early. Like, if I had, because you know, like. Before I was like, why is this little half Asian kid famous? And then I saw a picture and I was like, holy shit. Okay. But also why. Yeah. Uh, it's because you fucking get it done. Thank you. And it's respectful as fuck. And I fucking love it. I appreciate that. I wish you all the best. And hopefully we get to collab again. But like. If someone's okay, you're going to collab with Tristan again. Like any time he'll have us, the answer is yes. Thank you. It's just a easy training. I've never had to do. I see almost nothing. And I'm just doing everything right. I kind of feel like I could just blend in and sit out and be nowhere. I appreciate it. I'm always grateful to learn for people. I'm just grateful. So our experience and then to share this a lot of people. Obviously that are just out there. But you need to give me the time of data. Train with your alongside you with your coaching. It's, uh, me the lot. So I appreciate it. I've been following content for a long time as I'm sure all of your fanbase has. And, uh, Mike is even greater in person than he is on camera. So forever. Anybody who's watching, you can be registered. It's not, uh, per side putting on for a camera or anything. Maybe I'll have a person. Yeah. Sit down for YouTube. All right. Time to become my other self. Dude. Thank you. Mega pleasure. Mega pleasure. Alrighty. Folks, see you next time. Be more like Tristan.

Oh my, always filling up. But soft music is a style. Yo, YouTube, quick and tross. Me, I'm Dr. Mike. That there, my biological son, my firstborn, my child, my seed. Mr. I-F-B-Pro, Jared Feather. And we're joined today from Eastern Canada. If you believe that's a real place, I think it's still like Hogwarts. Mr. I-F-B-B-Pro, Johnny Shreve, V-U-Tube collab, you've been waiting for. You've been asking for, you've been begging for. He's here to show us how real pro trains legs. He's going to jump in for our leg workout. There will be pain. There will be suffering. And there will be an embracement of one's ancestral Nigerian god-like athlete genetics. I'm talking about myself, of course. Oh, and Johnny, what's up? How are you feeling? I feel good, man. Good. I'm excited. I'm good. I'm good. I'm good. I'm good. I'm good. All right. Pain time? Pain time. Go. Every time you touch your butt with the bar, or close, that's good enough. And then a slow eccentric on the way down, and a full stretch at the bottom. Yep. The machine has to clank at the bottom, and touch the bottom every time. Big stretch on the ams. Yeah, there you go. When you do your set, the stretch at the bottom being controlled. Do you ever say both? Like so I touch your butt. What we like to do is make sure that we're hitting a standardized range of motion. And that means we have to physically feel the touch of the bottom, and feel the touch of the top, or at least get us close to the top as we can, until like, limb ratio wise, you're just unable to touch your own butt. That's totally cool. Yeah. So that's where we're coming from, but absolutely both. The concentric, I like explosive. The eccentric, I like controlled, to really milk it out. Yeah, I think that needlessly controlling that last bit of the concentric. It might take away from that part. Yeah. So it's probably best for like pretty forceful concentric. Yeah. And like you said, standardized range of motion. So that's where we try to tap the ass. Yeah. And you might come out of that kind of quickly, because you're not used to that position. Yeah. But as long as you try to control that switch from concentric to eccentric, it's a bit different. And let's get people more. Love and how yeah. There you go. 12. Goal mode. Come on. Let's go. Finish that llama. Low. Yeah. Zero. Not lineup. So go to like not bad, man. I count 12 good ones. Yeah, I could have just fit 150. Or a little less than one. I'm going to stick a 170 and hit all the 12 from now. What about the positive? We are going to be doing my orep match. My orep match. First set you go hard. Basically close to failure. This is my peak week. Jared's peak week as well. After your first set, you get normal rest. It's up to you to repeat that same sets reps. But you're allowed to take little rest breaks in the second set, third set and fourth set. So if you get 15 reps on a first set, on your second set, you get 13. That's a failure. You stop. You breathe five to ten seconds. You get another two. That's 15 again. Next time you get 10, then three, then two and so on. With normal rest breaks in between the big sets. But the little sets have a five to ten second rest break. I have like, we explained in the, I had you say the math. So basically, you're like first set to failure. Machines reps in rest boss. But I set a better. Trace leicin. Fuck a five. That's what I'm here. That's crazy. That's crazy. Yeah, how are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? How are you? Come on. You just won those athletic whites. It's rare, but it happens. It's got those hamstrings. 11. Take a time with this and I'm dressed it out a little bit. Touch. Low zero. Rest it out a bit finish out last wrap. This good stuff Johnny, do it great. Hit it up. Yes, slow control. And that's it. This shit. You look good. Good stop. It really hits. That's like going a failure a whole bunch. Right. Good shit, man. Oh, I mean, call that one. So you're going to do this. Oh, it's this. Why do you stuff like this? Yeah. So if you can, try to keep it in the hamstrings as much as possible. Yeah. Or just try to leave it there. Yeah. It'll go through a lot more in your hands. 100%. Yeah. Jared. But this is me. Johnny's our guest. Nice to be guests. You're doing great. You're doing everything perfect. What? We got it. Oh, I forgot that part. It's supposed to be a compliment first. Yeah. Y